http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/915912/000091591216000024/a201510-k.htm
21847735762.0
AVB
2016-02-26
10-K
AVB_2016-02-26_10-K.txt

10-K 1 a201510-k.htm 10-K 10-K UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D.C. 20549 FORM 10-K ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR15(d) OFTHE SECURITIESEXCHANGE ACT OF1934 For the fiscal year ended December31, 2015 Commission file number1-12672 AVALONBAY COMMUNITIES,INC.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) Maryland 77-0404318 (State or other jurisdiction of (I.R.S. Employer incorporation or organization) Identification No.) Ballston Tower 671 N. Glebe Rd, Suite800 Arlington, Virginia 22203 (Address of principal executive offices, including zip code) (703) 329-6300 (Registrants telephone number, including area code) __________________________________________________________________________ Securities registered pursuant to Section12(b) of the Act: (Title of each class) (Name of each exchange on which registered) Common Stock, par value $.01 per share New York Stock Exchange Securities registered pursuant to Section12(g) of the Act: None Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule405 of the Securities Act.
Yes  No o Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section13 or Section15(d) of the Act.
Yes o No  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1)has filed all reports required to be filed by Section13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding twelve (12)months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2)has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90days.
Yes  No o Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Website, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule405 of RegulationS-T during the preceding 12months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files).
Yes  No o Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item405 of RegulationS-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in PartIII of this Form10-K or any amendment to this Form10-K.
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of "large accelerated filer," "accelerated filer" and "smaller reporting company" in Rule12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (Check one): Largeacceleratedfiler  Acceleratedfiler o Non-acceleratedfiler o (Do not check if a smaller reporting company) Smallerreportingcompany o Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule12b-2 of the Act).
Yes o No  The aggregate market value of the registrant's Common Stock, par value $.01 per share, held by nonaffiliates of the registrant, as of June30, 2015 was $21,847,735,762 .
The number of shares of the registrant's Common Stock, par value $.01 per share, outstanding as of January29, 2016 was 137,002,607 .
Documents Incorporated by Reference Portions of AvalonBay Communities,Inc.'s Proxy Statement for the 2016 annual meeting of stockholders, a definitive copy of which will be filed with the SEC within 120days after the year end of the year covered by this Form10-K, are incorporated by reference herein as portions of PartIII of this Form10-K.
Table of Contents TABLE OF CONTENTS PAGE PART I ITEM 1.
BUSINESS 1 ITEM 1A.
RISK FACTORS 8 ITEM 1B.
UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS 17 ITEM 2.
COMMUNITIES 17 ITEM 3.
LEGAL PROCEEDINGS 37 ITEM 4.
MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES 37 PART II ITEM 5.
MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES 38 ITEM 6.
SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA 39 ITEM 7.
MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 43 ITEM 7A.
QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK 65 ITEM 8.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA 65 ITEM 9.
CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE 65 ITEM 9A.
CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES 65 ITEM 9B.
OTHER INFORMATION 66 PART III ITEM 10.
DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 67 ITEM 11.
EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 67 ITEM 12.
SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS 67 ITEM 13.
CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE 68 ITEM 14.
PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES 68 PART IV ITEM 15.
EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE 69 SIGNATURES 74 Table of Contents PART I This Form10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Our actual results could differ materially from those set forth in each forward-looking statement. Certain factors that might cause such a difference are discussed in this report, including in the section entitled "Forward-Looking Statements" included in this Form10-K. You should also review Item1A. "Risk Factors" for a discussion of various risks that could adversely affect us.
ITEM 1.BUSINESS General AvalonBay Communities, Inc. (the Company, which term, unless the context otherwise requires, refers to AvalonBay Communities, Inc. together with its subsidiaries), is a Maryland corporation that has elected to be treated as a real estate investment trust (REIT) for federal income tax purposes. We develop, redevelop, acquire, own and operate multifamily communities primarily in New England, the New York/New Jersey metro area, the Mid-Atlantic, the Pacific Northwest, and Northern and Southern California. We focus on leading metropolitan areas in these regions that we believe are characterized by growing employment in high wage sectors of the economy, lower housing affordability and a diverse and vibrant quality of life.  We believe these market characteristics offer the opportunity for superior risk-adjusted returns on apartment community investments relative to other markets.
At January31, 2016 , we owned or held a direct or indirect ownership interest in:  257 operating apartment communities containing 75,549 apartment homes in 10 states and the District of Columbia, of which 238 communities containing 69,652 apartment homes were consolidated for financial reporting purposes, two communities containing 618 apartment homes were held by joint ventures in which we hold an ownership interest, and 17 communities containing 5,279 apartment homes were owned by the Funds (as defined below).
Nine of the consolidated communities containing 2,795 apartment homes were under redevelopment, as discussed below;  26 wholly-owned communities under construction that are expected to contain an aggregate of 8,112 apartment homes when completed; and  rights to develop an additional 32 communities that, if developed in the manner expected, will contain an estimated 9,634 apartment homes.
We generally obtain ownership in an apartment community by developing a new community on either vacant land or land with improvements that we raze, or by acquiring an existing community. In selecting sites for development or acquisition, we favor locations that are near expanding employment centers and convenient to transportation, recreation areas, entertainment, shopping and dining.
Our consolidated real estate investments consist of the following reportable segments: Established Communities, Other Stabilized Communities and Development/Redevelopment Communities.
Established Communities are generally operating communities that were owned and had stabilized occupancy and operating expenses as of the beginning of the prior year such that year-over-year comparisons are meaningful. Other Stabilized Communities are generally all other operating communities that have stabilized occupancy and operating expenses during the current year, but that were not owned or had not achieved stabilization as of the beginning of the prior year such that year-over-year comparisons are not meaningful, as well as communities that are planned for disposition during the current year. Development/Redevelopment Communities consist of communities that are under construction, communities where substantial redevelopment is in progress or is planned to begin during the current year and communities under lease-up. A more detailed description of these segments and other related information can be found in Note8, "Segment Reporting," of the Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in Item8 of this report.
1 Table of Contents Our principal financial goal is to increase long-term shareholder value through the development, redevelopment, acquisition, operation and, when appropriate, disposition of apartment communities in our markets. To help meet this goal, we regularly (i)monitor our investment allocation by geographic market and product type, (ii)develop, redevelop and acquire interests in apartment communities in our selected markets, (iii)selectively sell apartment communities that no longer meet our long-term strategy or when opportunities are presented to realize a portion of the value created through our investment and redeploy the proceeds from those sales and (iv)endeavor to maintain a capital structure that is aligned with our business risks with a view to maintaining continuous access to cost-effective capital. We pursue our development, investment and operating activities with the purpose of Creating a Better Way to Live . Our strategic vision is to be the leading apartment company in select US markets, providing a range of distinctive living experiences that customers value. We pursue this vision by targeting what we believe are the best markets and submarkets, leveraging our strategic capabilities in market research and consumer insight and being disciplined in our capital allocation and balance sheet management. In addition to our in-house development and construction capabilities, we supplement our growth through our in-house redevelopment and acquisition platforms. We believe that our organizational structure, which includes dedicated development and operational teams in each of our regions, and strong culture are key differentiators and provide us with access to highly talented, dedicated and capable associates.
We operate our apartment communities under three core brands Avalon, AVA and Eaves by Avalon.
We believe that this branding differentiation allows us to target our product offerings to multiple customer groups and submarkets within our existing geographic footprint. The "Avalon" brand is our core offering, focusing on upscale apartment living and high end amenities and services in urban and suburban markets. Our "AVA" brand is designed for people who want to live in or near urban neighborhoods and in close proximity to public transportation, services, shopping and night-life.
AVA apartments are generally smaller, many engineered for roommate living and feature modern design and a technology focus. Our Eaves by Avalon brand is designed for renters who seek good quality apartment living, often in a suburban setting, with practical amenities and services at a more modest price point.
On February27, 2013, pursuant to an asset purchase agreement dated November26, 2012, the Company, together with Equity Residential, acquired, directly or indirectly, all of the assets owned by Archstone Enterprise LP ("Archstone," which has since changed its name to Jupiter Enterprise LP), including all of the ownership interests in joint ventures and other entities owned by Archstone, and assumed Archstones liabilities, both known and unknown, with certain limited exceptions. Under the terms of the purchase agreement, the Company acquired approximately 40.0% of Archstone's assets and liabilities and Equity Residential acquired approximately 60.0% of Archstones assets and liabilities (the Archstone Acquisition).
During the three years ended December 31, 2015 , excluding activity for the Funds (as defined below) and  interests acquired in unconsolidated joint ventures as part of the Archstone Acquisition detailed below, we acquired 56 apartment communities, of which 54 were acquired as part of the Archstone Acquisition. During the three years ended December 31, 2015 , we disposed of 17 apartment communities, six of which were acquired in the Archstone Acquisition, and completed the development of 42 apartment communities and the redevelopment of 15 apartment communities. In addition, we acquired two wholly-owned communities in 2016 through the date this Form10-K was filed.
In March 2005, we formed AvalonBay Value Added Fund,L.P. ("Fund I"), a private, discretionary real estate investment vehicle, which we managed and in which we owned a 15.2% interest. Fund I acquired communities with the objective of either redeveloping or repositioning them, or taking advantage of market cycle timing and improved operating performance. From its inception in March 2005 through the close of its investment period in 2008, Fund I acquired 20 communities. During the three years ended December 31, 2015 , we realized our pro rata share of the gain from the sale of the last of the 11 communities owned by Fund I. Fund I disposed of the last of its communities in 2014, and was dissolved in April 2015.
In September 2008, we formed AvalonBay Value Added Fund II,L.P. ("Fund II"), a second institutional discretionary real estate investment fund which we manage and in which we own a 31.3% interest. In 2012, Fund II acquired its final operating community. From the commencement of Fund II through the close of its investment period, Fund II acquired 13 operating communities. During the three years ended December 31, 2015 , we realized our pro rata share of the gain from the sale of seven communities owned by Fund II. In 2016 , through the date this Form 10-K was filed, Fund II sold one community.
In conjunction with the Archstone Acquisition, excluding the Residual JV, we acquired interests in three additional joint ventures, Archstone Multifamily Partners ACLP (the "U.S. Fund"), Archstone Multifamily Partners AC JVLP (the "AC JV") and Brandywine Apartments of Maryland,LLC ("Brandywine").
The U.S. Fund was formed in July 2011 and is fully invested. As of December31, 2015 , the U.S. Fund owns nine communities containing 1,730 apartment homes, one of which includes a marina containing 229 boat slips. Through subsidiaries, we acquired and own the general partner of the fund and hold a 28.6% interest in the fund. In 2016 , through the date this Form 10-K was filed, the U.S. Fund had sold two communities.
2 Table of Contents The AC JV is a joint venture in which we acquired Archstone's 20.0% ownership interest. The ACJV was formed in 2011 and owns three operating apartment communities containing 921 apartment homes, one of which completed development in 2014. The AC JV partnership agreement contains provisions that require us to provide a right of first offer ("ROFO") to the AC JV in connection with additional opportunities to acquire or develop additional interests in multifamily real estate assets within a specified geographic radius of the existing assets, generally one mile or less. The ROFO restriction expires in 2019.
Brandywine owns a 305 apartment home community located in Washington, DC, which is managed by a third party. Brandywine is comprised of five members who hold various interests in the joint venture. In conjunction with the Archstone Acquisition, we acquired a 26.1% equity interest in the venture, and subsequently purchased an additional 2.6% interest, and as of December31, 2015 , hold a 28.7% equity interest in the venture.
A more detailed description of Fund I, Fund II, and the U.S. Fund (collectively, the "Funds"), the AC JV, Brandywine and the related investment activity can be found in the discussion in Note5, "Investments in Real Estate Entities," of the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item8 of this report and in Item7. "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations." Through subsidiaries, the Company and Equity Residential entered into three limited liability company agreements (collectively, the Residual JV) through which the Company and Equity Residential acquired (i)certain assets of Archstone that the Company and Equity Residential have divested (to third parties or to the Company or Equity Residential) (the Residual Assets), and (ii)various liabilities of Archstone that the Company and Equity Residential agreed to assume in conjunction with the Archstone Acquisition (the Residual Liabilities). The Residual Assets included a 20.0% interest in Lake Mendota Investments, LLC and Subsidiaries ("SWIB"), a joint venture which disposed of the last of its communities in 2015, various licenses, insurance policies, contracts, office leases and other miscellaneous assets. The Residual Liabilities include most existing or future litigation and claims related to Archstones operations for periods before the close of the Archstone Acquisition, except for (i)claims that principally relate to the physical condition of the assets acquired directly by the Company or Equity Residential, which generally remain the sole responsibility of the Company or Equity Residential, as applicable, and (ii)certain tax and other litigation between Archstone and various equity holders in Archstone related to periods before the close of the Archstone Acquisition, and claims which may arise due to changes in the capital structure of Archstone that occurred prior to closing, for which the seller has agreed to indemnify the Company and Equity Residential. The Company and Equity Residential jointly control the Residual JV and the Company holds a 40.0% economic interest in the Residual JV.
During 2015 , we sold seven operating communities including sales by unconsolidated entities, excluding the Residual JV, and recognized a gain in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") of $ 145,351,000 . In addition, we sold two undeveloped land parcels and air rights, representing the right to increase density for future residential development, and recognized a gain in accordance with GAAP of $9,647,000 .
A further discussion of our development, redevelopment, disposition, acquisition, property management and related strategies follows.
Development Strategy.
We select land for development and follow established procedures that we believe minimize both the cost and the risks of development. As one of the largest developers of multifamily rental apartment communities in our selected markets, we identify development opportunities through local market presence and access to local market information achieved through our regional offices. In addition to our principal executive office in Arlington, Virginia, we also maintain regional offices, administrative offices or specialty offices, including offices that are in or near the following cities:  Boston, Massachusetts;  Fairfield, Connecticut;  Irvine, California;  Long Island, New York;  Los Angeles, California;  New York, New York;  San Diego, CA;  San Francisco, California;  San Jose, California;  Seattle, Washington; 3 Table of Contents  Virginia Beach, Virginia; and  Woodbridge, New Jersey.
After selecting a target site, we usually negotiate for the right to acquire the site either through an option or a long-term conditional contract. Options and long-term conditional contracts generally allow us to acquire the target site shortly before the start of construction, which reduces development-related risks and preserves capital. However, as a result of competitive market conditions for land suitable for development, we have sometimes acquired and held land prior to construction for extended periods while entitlements are obtained, or acquired land zoned for uses other than residential with the potential for rezoning. For further discussion of our Development Rights, refer to Item2. "Communities" in this report.
We generally act as our own general contractor and construction manager, except for certain mid-rise and high-rise apartment communities, where we may elect to use third-party general contractors as construction managers. We generally perform these functions directly (although we may use a wholly-owned subsidiary) both for ourselves and for the joint ventures and partnerships of which we are a member or a partner. We believe direct involvement in construction enables us to achieve higher construction quality, greater control over construction schedules and cost savings. Our development, property management and construction teams monitor construction progress to ensure quality workmanship and a smooth and timely transition into the leasing and operating phase.
During periods where competition for development land is more intense, we may acquire improved land with existing commercial uses and rezone the site for multifamily residential use. During the period that we hold these buildings for future development, any rent received in excess of expenses from these operations, which we consider to be incidental, is accounted for as a reduction in our investment in the development pursuit and not as net income. Any expenses relating to these operations, in excess of any rents received, are accounted for as a reduction in net income. We have also participated, and may in the future participate, in master planned or other large multi-use developments where we commit to build infrastructure (such as roads) to be used by other participants or commit to act as construction manager or general contractor in building structures or spaces for third parties (such as unimproved ground floor retail space, municipal garages or parks). Costs we incur in connection with these activities may be accounted for as additional invested capital in the community or we may earn fee income for providing these services. Particularly with large scale, urban in-fill developments, we may engage in significant environmental remediation efforts to prepare a site for construction.
Throughout this report, the term "development" is used to refer to the entire property development cycle, including pursuit of zoning approvals, procurement of architectural and engineering designs and the construction process. References to "construction" refer to the actual construction of the property, which is only one element of the development cycle.
Redevelopment Strategy.
When we undertake the redevelopment of a community, our goal is to renovate and/or rebuild an existing community so that our total investment is generally below replacement cost and the community is well positioned in the market to achieve attractive returns on our capital. We have dedicated redevelopment teams and procedures that are intended to control both the cost and risks of redevelopment. Our redevelopment teams, which include redevelopment, construction and property management personnel, monitor redevelopment progress. We believe we achieve significant cost savings by undertaking the redevelopment primarily through an occupied turn strategy, in which we continue to operate the community as we install improvements, working to minimize any impact on our current residents.
Throughout this report, the term "redevelopment" is used to refer to the entire redevelopment cycle, including planning and procurement of architectural and engineering designs, budgeting and actual renovation work. The actual renovation work is referred to as "reconstruction," which is only one element of the redevelopment cycle.
Disposition Strategy.
We sell assets that no longer meet our long-term strategy or when market conditions are favorable, and we redeploy the proceeds from those sales to develop, redevelop and acquire communities and to rebalance our portfolio across or within geographic regions. This also allows us to realize a portion of the value created through our investments and provides additional liquidity. We are then able to redeploy the net proceeds from our dispositions in lieu of raising that amount of capital externally. When we decide to sell a community, we generally solicit competing bids from unrelated parties for these individual assets and consider the sales price of each proposal.
As part of the Archstone Acquisition, we acquired 14 assets that had previously been contributed by third parties on a tax-deferred basis to an Archstone partnership in which the third parties received ownership interests.  To protect the tax-deferred nature of the contribution, the third parties are entitled to cash payments if we trigger tax obligations to the third parties by selling, or repaying secured financing on, the contributed assets. As of December31, 2015 , the aggregate amount of the tax protection payments that would be triggered by the sale of all 14 contributed assets is estimated to be approximately $41,700,000 .
Acquisition Strategy.
Our core competencies in development and redevelopment discussed above allow us to be selective in the acquisitions we target. Acquisitions allow us to achieve rapid penetration into markets in which we desire an increased presence.
4 Table of Contents Acquisitions (and dispositions) also help us achieve our desired product mix or rebalance our portfolio. Portfolio growth also allows for fixed general and administrative costs to be a smaller percentage of overall community Net Operating Income ("NOI").
While we have achieved growth in the past through the establishment of discretionary real estate investments funds, which placed certain limitations on our ability to acquire new communities during their investments periods, we are not presently pursuing the formation of a new discretionary real estate investment fund, preferring at this time to maintain flexibility in shaping our portfolio of wholly-owned assets through acquisitions and dispositions.
Property Management Strategy.
We seek to increase operating income through innovative, proactive property management that will result in higher revenue from communities while constraining operating expenses. Our principal strategies to maximize revenue include:  focusing on resident satisfaction;  staggering lease terms such that lease expirations are better matched to traffic patterns;  balancing high occupancy with premium pricing and increasing rents as market conditions permit; and  employing revenue management software to optimize the pricing and term of leases.
Constraining growth in operating expenses is another way in which we seek to increase earnings growth. Growth in our portfolio and the resulting increase in revenue allows for fixed operating costs to be spread over a larger volume of revenue, thereby increasing operating margins. We constrain growth in operating expenses in a variety of ways, which include, but are not limited to, the following:  we use purchase order controls, acquiring goods and services from pre-approved vendors;  we use national negotiated contracts and also purchase supplies in bulk where possible;  we bid third-party contracts on a volume basis;  we strive to retain residents through high levels of service in order to eliminate the cost of preparing an apartment home for a new resident and to reduce marketing and vacant apartment utility costs;  we perform turnover work in-house or hire third parties, generally considering the most cost effective approach as well as expertise needed to perform the work;  we undertake preventive maintenance regularly to maximize resident safety and satisfaction, as well as to maximize property and equipment life;  we have established a customer care center, centralizing and improving the efficiency and consistency in the application of Company policies for many of the administrative tasks associated with owning and operating apartment communities; and  we aggressively pursue real estate tax appeals.
On-site property management teams receive bonuses based largely upon the revenue, expense and NOI produced at their respective communities. We use and continuously seek ways to improve technology applications to help manage our communities, believing that the accurate collection of financial and resident data will enable us to maximize revenue and control costs through careful leasing decisions, maintenance decisions and financial management.
We generally manage the operation and leasing activity of our communities directly (although we may use a wholly-owned subsidiary) both for ourselves and the joint ventures and partnerships of which we are a member or a partner. From time to time we may engage a third party to manage leasing and/or maintenance activity at one or more of our communities.
From time to time we also pursue or arrange ancillary services for our residents to provide additional revenue sources or increase resident satisfaction. As a REIT, we generally cannot provide direct services to our residents that are not customarily provided by a landlord, nor can we directly share in the income of a third party that provides such services. However, we can provide such non-customary services to residents or share in the revenue from such services if we do so through a "taxable REIT subsidiary," which is a subsidiary that is treated as a "C corporation" subject to federal income taxes. See "Tax Matters" below.
Financing Strategy.
We maintain a capital structure that provides financial flexibility to ensure we can select cost effective capital market options that are well matched to our business risks. We estimate that our short-term liquidity needs will be met from cash on hand, borrowings under our $1,500,000,000 revolving variable rate unsecured credit facility (the "Credit Facility"), sales of current operating communities and/or issuance of additional debt or equity securities. A determination to engage in an equity or 5 Table of Contents debt offering depends on a variety of factors such as general market and economic conditions, our short and long-term liquidity needs, the relative costs of debt and equity capital and growth opportunities. A summary of debt and equity activity for the last three years is reflected on our Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows of the Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in Item8 of this report.
We have entered into, and may continue in the future to enter into, joint ventures (including limited liability companies or partnerships) through which we would own an indirect economic interest of less than 100% of the community or communities owned directly by such joint ventures. Our decision to either hold an apartment community in fee simple or to have an indirect interest in the community through a joint venture is based on a variety of factors and considerations, including: (i)the economic and tax terms required by a seller of land or of a community; (ii)our desire to diversify our portfolio of communities by market, submarket and product type; (iii)our desire at times to preserve our capital resources to maintain liquidity or balance sheet strength; and (iv)our projection, in some circumstances, that we will achieve higher returns on our invested capital or reduce our risk if a joint venture vehicle is used. Investments in joint ventures are not limited to a specified percentage of our assets. Each joint venture agreement is individually negotiated, and our ability to operate and/or dispose of a community in our sole discretion may be limited to varying degrees depending on the terms of the joint venture agreement.
In addition, from time to time, we may offer shares of our equity securities, debt securities or options to purchase stock in exchange for property. We may also acquire properties in exchange for properties we currently own.
Other Strategies and Activities.
While we emphasize equity real estate investments in rental apartment communities, we have the ability to invest in other types of real estate, mortgages (including participating or convertible mortgages), securities of other REITs or real estate operating companies, or securities of technology companies that relate to our real estate operations or of companies that provide services to us or our residents, in each case consistent with our qualification as a REIT. In addition, we own and lease retail space at our communities when either (i)the highest and best use of the space is for retail (e.g.,street level in an urban area); (ii)we believe the retail space will enhance the attractiveness of the community to residents or; (iii)some component of retail space is required to obtain entitlements to build apartment homes. As of December31, 2015 , we had a total of 660,605 square feet of rentable retail space, excluding retail space within communities currently under construction. Gross rental revenue provided by leased retail space in 2015 was $18,528,000 ( 1.0% of total revenue). We may also develop a property in conjunction with another real estate company that will own and operate the retail or for-sale residential components of a mixed-use building or project that we help develop. If we secure a development right and believe that its best use, in whole or in part, is to develop the real estate with the intent to sell rather than hold the asset, we may, through a taxable REIT subsidiary, develop real estate for sale. Any investment in securities of other entities, and any development of real estate for sale, is subject to the percentage of ownership limitations, gross income tests, and other limitations that must be observed for REIT qualification.
We have not engaged in trading, underwriting or agency distribution or sale of securities of other issuers and do not intend to do so. At all times we intend to make investments in a manner so as to qualify as a REIT unless, because of circumstances or changes to the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code") (or the Treasury Regulations thereunder), our Board of Directors determines that it is no longer in our best interest to qualify as a REIT.
Tax Matters We filed an election with our 1994 federal income tax return to be taxed as a REIT under the Code and intend to maintain our qualification as a REIT in the future. As a qualified REIT, with limited exceptions, such as those described under "Property Management Strategy" above, we will not be taxed under federal and certain state income tax laws at the corporate level on our taxable net income to the extent taxable net income is distributed to our stockholders. We expect to make sufficient distributions to avoid income tax at the corporate level. While we believe that we are organized and qualified as a REIT and we intend to operate in a manner that will allow us to continue to qualify as a REIT, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in this regard. Qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex provisions of the Code for which there are limited judicial and administrative interpretations and involves the determination of a variety of factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control.
Competition We face competition from other real estate investors, including insurance companies, pension and investment funds, partnerships and investment companies and other REITs, to acquire and develop apartment communities and acquire land for future development. As an owner and operator of apartment communities, we also face competition for prospective residents from other operators whose communities may be perceived to offer a better location or better amenities or whose rent may be perceived as a better value given the quality, location and amenities that the resident seeks. We also compete against condominiums and single-family homes that are for sale or rent. Although we often compete against large, sophisticated developers and operators for development opportunities and for prospective residents, real estate developers and operators of any size can provide effective competition for both real estate assets and potential residents.
6 Table of Contents Environmental and Related Matters As a current or prior owner, operator and developer of real estate, we are subject to various federal, state and local environmental laws, regulations and ordinances and also could be liable to third parties resulting from environmental contamination or noncompliance at our communities. For some development communities we undertake extensive environmental remediation to prepare the site for construction, which could be a significant portion of our total construction cost. Environmental remediation efforts could expose us to possible liabilities for accidents or improper handling of contaminated materials during construction. These and other risks related to environmental matters are described in more detail in Item1A. "Risk Factors." We believe that more government regulation of energy use, along with a greater focus on environmental protection, may, over time, have a significant impact on urban growth patterns. If changes in zoning to encourage greater density and proximity to mass transit do occur, such changes could benefit multifamily housing and those companies with a competency in high-density development. However, there can be no assurance as to whether or when such changes in regulations or zoning will occur or, if they do occur, whether the multifamily industry or the Company will benefit from such changes.
Other Information We file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the SEC. You may read and copy any document we file at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100FStreet, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. You may call the SEC at 1-202-551-8090 for further information on the operation of the Public Reference Room. Our SEC filings are also available to the public from the SEC's website at www.sec.gov.
We maintain a website at www.avalonbay.com. Our annual reports on Form10-K, quarterly reports on Form10-Q, current reports on Form8-K, and amendments to those reports, filed or furnished pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are available free of charge in the "Investor Relations" section of our website as soon as reasonably practicable after the reports are filed with or furnished to the SEC. In addition, the charters of our Board's Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee, Audit Committee and Compensation Committee, as well as our Director Independence Standards, Corporate Governance Guidelines, Code of Conduct, Policy Regarding Shareholder Rights Agreements, Policy Regarding Shareholder Approval of Future Severance Agreements, Executive Stock Ownership Guidelines, Policy on Political Contributions and Government Relations, and Policy on Recoupment of Incentive Compensation, are available free of charge in that section of our website or by writing to AvalonBay Communities,Inc., Ballston Tower, Suite800, 671 N. Glebe Rd., Arlington, Virginia 22203, Attention: Chief Financial Officer. To the extent required by the rules of the SEC and the NYSE, we will disclose amendments and waivers relating to these documents in the same place on our website.
We were incorporated under the laws of the State of California in 1978. In 1995, we reincorporated in the State of Maryland and have been focused on the ownership and operation of apartment communities since that time. As of January31, 2016 , we had 2,981 employees.
7 Table of Contents ITEM 1A.RISK FACTORS Our operations involve various risks that could have adverse consequences, including those described below. This Item1A. includes forward-looking statements. You should refer to our discussion of the qualifications and limitations on forward-looking statements in this Form10-K.
Development, redevelopment and construction risks could affect our profitability.
We intend to continue to develop and redevelop apartment home communities. These activities can include long planning and entitlement timelines and can involve complex and costly activities, including significant environmental remediation or construction work in high-density urban areas. These activities may be exposed to the following risks:  we may abandon opportunities that we have already begun to explore for a number of reasons, including changes in local market conditions or increases in construction or financing costs, and, as a result, we may fail to recover expenses already incurred in exploring those opportunities;  occupancy rates and rents at a community may fail to meet our original expectations for a number of reasons, including changes in market and economic conditions beyond our control and the development by competitors of competing communities;  we may be unable to obtain, or experience delays in obtaining, necessary zoning, occupancy, or other required governmental or third party permits and authorizations, which could result in increased costs or the delay or abandonment of opportunities;  we may incur costs that exceed our original estimates due to increased material, labor or other costs;  we may be unable to complete construction and lease-up of a community on schedule, resulting in increased construction and financing costs and a decrease in expected rental revenues;  we may be unable to obtain financing with favorable terms, or at all, for the proposed development of a community, which may cause us to delay or abandon an opportunity;  we may incur liabilities to third parties during the development process, for example, in connection with managing existing improvements on the site prior to tenant terminations and demolition (such as commercial space) or in connection with providing services to third parties (such as the construction of shared infrastructure or other improvements); and  we may incur liability if our communities are not constructed and operated in compliance with the accessibility provisions of the Americans with Disabilities Acts, the Fair Housing Act or other federal, state or local requirements. Noncompliance could result in imposition of fines, an award of damages to private litigants, and a requirement that we undertake structural modifications to remedy the noncompliance.
We estimate construction costs based on market conditions at the time we prepare our budgets, and our projections include changes that we anticipate but cannot predict with certainty. Construction costs may increase, particularly for labor and certain materials and, for some of our Development Communities and Development Rights (as defined below), the total construction costs may be higher than the original budget. Total capitalized cost includes all capitalized costs incurred and projected to be incurred to develop or redevelop a community, determined in accordance with GAAP, including:  land and/or property acquisition costs;  fees paid to secure air rights and/or tax abatements;  construction or reconstruction costs;  costs of environmental remediation;  real estate taxes;  capitalized interest and insurance;  loan fees;  permits;  professional fees; 8 Table of Contents  allocated development or redevelopment overhead; and  other regulatory fees.
Costs to redevelop communities that have been acquired have, in some cases, exceeded our original estimates and similar increases in costs may be experienced in the future. We cannot assure you that market rents in effect at the time new development or redevelopment communities complete lease-up will be sufficient to fully offset the effects of any increased construction or reconstruction costs.
Unfavorable changes in market and economic conditions could adversely affect occupancy, rental rates, operating expenses, and the overall market value of our assets, including joint ventures and investments in the Funds.
Local conditions in our markets significantly affect occupancy, rental rates and the operating performance of our communities. The risks that may adversely affect conditions in those markets include the following:  corporate restructurings and/or layoffs, industry slowdowns and other factors that adversely affect the local economy;  an oversupply of, or a reduced demand for, apartment homes;  a decline in household formation or employment or lack of employment growth;  the inability or unwillingness of residents to pay rent increases;  rent control or rent stabilization laws, or other laws regulating housing, that could prevent us from raising rents to offset increases in operating costs; and  economic conditions that could cause an increase in our operating expenses, such as increases in property taxes, utilities, compensation of on-site associates and routine maintenance.
Changes in applicable laws, or noncompliance with applicable laws, could adversely affect our operations or expose us to liability.
We must develop, construct and operate our communities in compliance with numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations, some of which may conflict with one another or be subject to limited judicial or regulatory interpretations. These laws and regulations may include zoning laws, building codes, landlord tenant laws and other laws generally applicable to business operations. Noncompliance with laws could expose us to liability.
Lower revenue growth or significant unanticipated expenditures may result from our need to comply with changes in (i)laws imposing remediation requirements and the potential liability for environmental conditions existing on properties or the restrictions on discharges or other conditions, (ii)rent control or rent stabilization laws or other residential landlord/tenant laws, or (iii)other governmental rules and regulations or enforcement policies affecting the development, use and operation of our communities, including changes to building codes and fire and life-safety codes.
Short-term leases expose us to the effects of declining market rents.
Substantially all of our apartment leases are for a term of one year or less. Because these leases generally permit the residents to leave at the end of the lease term without penalty, our rental revenues are impacted by declines in market rents more quickly than if our leases were for longer terms.
Competition could limit our ability to lease apartment homes or increase or maintain rents.
Our apartment communities compete with other housing alternatives to attract residents, including other rental apartments, condominiums and single-family homes that are available for rent, as well as new and existing condominiums and single-family homes for sale. Competitive residential housing in a particular area could adversely affect our ability to lease apartment homes and to increase or maintain rental rates.
Attractive investment opportunities may not be available, which could adversely affect our profitability.
We expect that other real estate investors, including insurance companies, pension funds, other REITs and other well-capitalized investors, will compete with us to acquire existing properties and to develop new properties. This competition could increase prices for properties of the type we would likely pursue and adversely affect our profitability.
9 Table of Contents Capital and credit market conditions may adversely affect our access to various sources of capital and/or the cost of capital, which could impact our business activities, dividends, earnings, and common stock price, among other things.
In periods when the capital and credit markets experience significant volatility, the amounts, sources and cost of capital available to us may be adversely affected. We primarily use external financing to fund construction and to refinance indebtedness as it matures. If sufficient sources of external financing are not available to us on cost effective terms, we could be forced to limit our development and redevelopment activity and/or take other actions to fund our business activities and repayment of debt, such as selling assets, reducing our cash dividend or paying out less than 100% of our taxable income. To the extent that we are able and/or choose to access capital at a higher cost than we have experienced in recent years (reflected in higher interest rates for debt financing or a lower stock price for equity financing) our earnings per share and cash flows could be adversely affected. In addition, the price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly and/or decline in a high interest rate or volatile economic environment. We believe that the lenders under our Credit Facility will fulfill their lending obligations thereunder, but if economic conditions deteriorate, there can be no assurance that the ability of those lenders to fulfill their obligations would not be adversely impacted.
Insufficient cash flow could affect our debt financing and create refinancing risk.
We are subject to the risks associated with debt financing, including the risk that our cash flow will be insufficient to meet required payments of principal and interest. In this regard, we note that in order for us to continue to qualify as a REIT, we are required to annually distribute dividends generally equal to at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, computed without regard to the dividends paid deduction and excluding any net capital gain. This requirement limits the amount of our cash flow available to meet required principal and interest payments. The principal outstanding balance on a portion of our debt will not be fully amortized prior to its maturity. Although we may be able to repay our debt by using our cash flows, we cannot assure you that we will have sufficient cash flows available to make all required principal payments. Therefore, we may need to refinance at least a portion of our outstanding debt as it matures. There is a risk that we may not be able to refinance existing debt or that a refinancing will not be done on as favorable terms; either of these outcomes could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.
Rising interest rates could increase interest costs and could affect the market price of our common stock.
We currently have, and may in the future incur, contractual variable interest rate debt. In addition, we regularly seek access to both fixed and variable rate debt financing to repay maturing debt and to finance our development and redevelopment activity. Accordingly, if interest rates increase, our interest costs will also rise, unless we have made arrangements that hedge the risk of rising interest rates. In addition, an increase in market interest rates may lead purchasers of our common stock to demand a greater annual dividend yield, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock.
Bond financing and zoning compliance requirements could limit our income, restrict the use of communities and cause favorable financing to become unavailable.
We have financed some of our apartment communities with obligations issued by local government agencies because the interest paid to the holders of this debt is generally exempt from federal income taxes and, therefore, the interest rate is generally more favorable to us. These obligations are commonly referred to as "tax-exempt bonds" and generally must be secured by mortgages on our communities. As a condition to obtaining tax-exempt financing, or on occasion as a condition to obtaining favorable zoning in some jurisdictions, we will commit to make some of the apartments in a community available to households whose income does not exceed certain thresholds (e.g.,50% or 80% of area median income), or who meet other qualifying tests. As of December31, 2015 , approximately 6.0% of our apartment homes at current operating communities were under income limitations such as these. These commitments, which may run without expiration or may expire after a period of time (such as 15 or 20years) may limit our ability to raise rents and, in consequence, can also adversely affect the value of the communities subject to these restrictions.
In addition, some of our tax-exempt bond financing documents require us to obtain a guarantee from a financial institution of payment of the principal of, and interest on, the bonds. The guarantee may take the form of a letter of credit, surety bond, guarantee agreement or other additional collateral. If the financial institution defaults in its guarantee obligations, or if we are unable to renew the applicable guarantee or otherwise post satisfactory collateral, a default will occur under the applicable tax-exempt bonds and the community could be foreclosed upon if we do not redeem the bonds.
Risks related to indebtedness.
We have a Credit Facility with a syndicate of commercial banks. Our organizational documents do not limit the amount or percentage of indebtedness that may be incurred. Accordingly, subject to compliance with outstanding debt covenants, we could incur more debt, resulting in an increased risk of default on our obligations and an increase in debt service requirements that could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.
10 Table of Contents The mortgages on those of our properties that are subject to secured debt, our Credit Facility and the indenture under which a substantial portion of our debt was issued contain customary restrictions, requirements and other limitations, as well as certain financial and operating covenants including maintenance of certain financial ratios. Maintaining compliance with these restrictions could limit our flexibility. A default in these requirements, if uncured, could result in a requirement that we repay indebtedness, which could severely affect our liquidity and increase our financing costs. Refer to Item7. "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" for further discussion.
The mortgages on those of our properties subject to secured debt generally include provisions which stipulate a prepayment penalty or payment that we will be obligated to pay in the event that we elect to repay the mortgage note prior to the earlier of (i)the stated maturity of the note, or (ii)the date at which the mortgage note is prepayable without such penalty or payment. If we elect to repay some or all of the outstanding principal balance for our mortgage notes, we may incur prepayment penalties or payments under these provisions which could adversely affect our results of operations.
Failure to maintain our current credit ratings could adversely affect our cost of funds, related margins, liquidity and access to capital markets.
There are two major debt rating agencies that routinely evaluate and rate our debt. Their ratings are based on a number of factors, which include their assessment of our financial strength, liquidity, capital structure, asset quality, amount of real estate under development, and sustainability of cash flow and earnings, among other factors. If market conditions change, we may not be able to maintain our current credit ratings, which could adversely affect our cost of funds and related margins, liquidity and access to capital markets.
Debt financing may not be available and equity issuances could be dilutive to our stockholders.
Our ability to execute our business strategy depends on our access to an appropriate blend of debt and equity financing. Debt financing may not be available in sufficient amounts or on favorable terms. If we issue additional equity securities, the interests of existing stockholders could be diluted.
Failure to generate sufficient revenue or other liquidity needs could limit cash flow available for distributions to stockholders.
A decrease in rental revenue, or liquidity needs such as the repayment of indebtedness or funding of our development activities, could have an adverse effect on our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders. Significant expenditures associated with each community such as debt service payments, if any, real estate taxes, insurance and maintenance costs are generally not reduced when circumstances cause a reduction in income from a community.
The form, timing and/or amount of dividend distributions in future periods may vary and be impacted by economic and other considerations.
The form, timing and/or amount of dividend distributions will be declared at the discretion of the Board of Directors and will depend on actual cash from operations, our financial condition, capital requirements, the annual distribution requirements under the REIT provisions of the Code and other factors as the Board of Directors may consider relevant. The Board of Directors may modify our dividend policy from time to time.
We may choose to pay dividends in our own stock, in which case stockholders may be required to pay tax in excess of the cash they receive.
We may distribute taxable dividends that are payable in part in our stock, as we did in the fourth quarter of 2008. Taxable stockholders receiving such dividends will be required to include the full amount of the dividend as income to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits for federal income tax purposes. As a result, a U.S. stockholder may be required to pay tax with respect to such dividends in excess of the cash received. If a U.S. stockholder sells the stock it receives as a dividend in order to pay this tax, the sales proceeds may be less than the amount included in income with respect to the dividend, depending on the market price of our stock at the time of the sale. Furthermore, with respect to non-U.S. stockholders, we may be required to withhold U.S. tax with respect to such dividends, including in respect of all or a portion of such dividend that is payable in stock. In addition, the trading price of our stock would experience downward pressure if a significant number of our stockholders sell shares of our stock in order to pay taxes owed on dividends.
11 Table of Contents Difficulty of selling apartment communities could limit liquidity and financial flexibility.
Federal tax laws may limit our ability to earn a gain on the sale of a community (unless we own it through a subsidiary which will incur a taxable gain upon sale) if we are found to have held, acquired or developed the community primarily with the intent to resell the community, and this limitation may affect our ability to sell communities without adversely affecting returns to our stockholders. In addition, real estate in our markets can at times be difficult to sell quickly at prices we find acceptable. These potential difficulties in selling real estate in our markets may limit our ability to change or reduce the apartment communities in our portfolio promptly in response to changes in economic or other conditions.
Acquisitions may not yield anticipated results.
Our business strategy includes acquiring as well as developing communities. Our acquisition activities and their success may be exposed to the following risks:  an acquired property may fail to perform as we expected in analyzing our investment; and  our estimate of the costs of repositioning or redeveloping an acquired property may prove inaccurate.
Failure to succeed in new markets, or with new brands and community formats, or in activities other than the development, ownership and operation of residential rental communities may have adverse consequences.
We may from time to time commence development activity or make acquisitions outside of our existing market areas if appropriate opportunities arise. Our historical experience in our existing markets in developing, owning and operating rental communities does not ensure that we will be able to operate successfully in new markets, should we choose to enter them. We may be exposed to a variety of risks if we choose to enter new markets, including an inability to accurately evaluate local apartment market conditions; an inability to obtain land for development or to identify appropriate acquisition opportunities; an inability to hire and retain key personnel; and lack of familiarity with local governmental and permitting procedures.
Although we are primarily in the multifamily business, we also own and lease ancillary retail space when a retail component represents the best use of the space, as is often the case with large urban in-fill developments. We also may engage or have an interest in for-sale activity. We may be unsuccessful in owning and leasing retail space at our communities or in developing real estate with the intent to sell, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.
Land we hold with no current intent to develop may be subject to future impairment charges.
We own parcels of land that we do not currently intend to develop. As discussed in Item2. "CommunitiesOther Land and Real Estate Assets," in the event that the fair market value of a parcel changes such that we determine that the carrying basis of the parcel reflected in our financial statements is greater than the parcel's then current fair value, less costs to dispose, we would be subject to an impairment charge, which would reduce our net income.
We are exposed to various risks from our real estate activity through joint ventures.
Instead of acquiring or developing apartment communities directly, at times we invest as a partner or a co-venturer. Joint venture investments (including investments through partnerships or limited liability companies) involve risks, including the possibility that our partner might become insolvent or otherwise refuse to make capital contributions when due; that we may be responsible to our partner for indemnifiable losses; that our partner might at any time have business goals that are inconsistent with ours; and that our partner may be in a position to take action or withhold consent contrary to our instructions or requests. Frequently, we and our partner may each have the right to trigger a buy-sell arrangement that could cause us to sell our interest, or acquire our partner's interest, at a time when we otherwise would not have initiated such a transaction.
We are exposed to risks associated with investment in and management of discretionary real estate investment funds .
We formed Fund II, in which we have an equity interest of 31.3% , and as part of the Archstone Acquisition we acquired equity interests in the U.S. Fund and the AC JV of 28.6% and 20.0% , respectively, which, through wholly-owned subsidiaries, we manage as the general partner and managing member. The investment periods for Fund II and the U.S. Fund are over. The Funds present risks, including the following:  our subsidiaries that are the general partners of the Funds are generally liable, under partnership law, for the debts and obligations of the respective Funds, subject to certain exculpation and indemnification rights pursuant to the terms of the partnership agreement of the Funds;  investors in the Funds holding a majority of the partnership interests may remove us as the general partner without cause, in the case of Fund II, subject to our right to receive compensation for an additional period of management fees after such removal and our right to acquire one of the properties then held by such Funds; 12 Table of Contents  while we have broad discretion to manage the Funds, the investors or an advisory committee comprised of representatives of the investors must approve certain matters, and as a result we may be unable to cause the Funds to implement certain decisions that we consider beneficial; and  we may be liable and/or our status as a REIT may be jeopardized if either the Funds, or the REIT entities associated with the Funds and/or the U.S. Fund and/or AC JV, fail to comply with various tax or other regulatory matters.
The governance provisions of our joint ventures with Equity Residential could adversely affect our flexibility in dealing with such joint venture assets and liabilities .
In connection with the Archstone Acquisition, we created joint ventures with Equity Residential that manage certain of the acquired assets and liabilities. These structures involve participation in the ventures by Equity Residential whose interests and rights may not be the same as ours. Joint ownership of an investment in real estate involves risks not associated with direct ownership of real estate, including the risk that Equity Residential may at any time have economic or other business interests or goals which become inconsistent with our business interests or goals, including inconsistent goals relating to the sale of properties held in the joint ventures or the timing of the termination and liquidation of the joint ventures. Under the form for the joint venture arrangements, neither we nor Equity Residential expect to individually have the sole power to control the ventures, and an impasse could occur, which could adversely affect the applicable joint venture and decrease potential returns to us and our investors.
We rely on information technology in our operations, and any breach, interruption or security failure of that technology could have a negative impact on our business, results of operations, financial condition and/or reputation.
Information security risks have generally increased in recent years due to the rise in new technologies and the increased sophistication and activities of perpetrators of cyber attacks.
We collect and hold personally identifiable information of our residents and prospective residents in connection with our leasing and property management activities, and we collect and hold personally identifiable information of our associates in connection with their employment. In addition, we engage third party service providers that may have access to such personally identifiable information in connection with providing necessary information technology and security and other business services to us.
We address potential breaches or disclosure of this confidential personally identifiable information by implementing a variety of security measures intended to protect the confidentiality and security of this information including (among others) engaging reputable, recognized firms to help us design and maintain our information technology and data security systems, including testing and verification of their proper and secure operations on a periodic basis. We also maintain cyber risk insurance to cover certain risks arising out of data and network breaches.
However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to prevent unauthorized access to this information. Any failure in or breach of our operational or information security systems, or those of our third party service providers, as a result of cyber attacks or information security breaches could result in a wide range of potentially serious harm to our business operations and financial prospects, including (among others) disruption of our business and operations, disclosure or misuse of confidential or proprietary information (including personal information of our residents and/or associates), damage to our reputation, and/or potentially significant legal and/or financial liabilities and penalties.
We are exposed to risks that are either uninsurable, not economically insurable or in excess of our insurance coverage, including risks from natural disasters such as earthquakes and severe weather.
Earthquake risk.
As further described in Item2. "CommunitiesInsurance and Risk of Uninsured Losses," many of our West Coast communities are located in the general vicinity of active earthquake faults. We cannot assure you that an earthquake would not cause damage or losses greater than insured levels. In the event of a loss in excess of insured limits, we could lose our capital invested in the affected community, as well as anticipated future revenue from that community. We would also continue to be obligated to repay any mortgage indebtedness or other obligations related to the community. Any such loss could materially and adversely affect our business and our financial condition and results of operations.
Insurance coverage for earthquakes can be costly and in limited supply. As a result, we may experience shortages in desired coverage levels if market conditions are such that insurance is not available or the cost of insurance makes it, in management's view, economically impractical.
Severe or inclement weather risk.
Particularly in New England and the Metro New York/New Jersey area, we are exposed to risks associated with inclement or severe weather, including hurricanes, severe winter storms and coastal flooding.  Severe or inclement weather may result in increased costs, such as losses and costs resulting from repair of water and wind damage, removal of snow and ice, and, in the case of our development communities, delays in construction that result in increased construction costs and delays in realizing rental revenues from a community.  In addition, severe or inclement weather could increase the need for maintenance of our communities.
13 Table of Contents Where we have a geographic concentration of exposures, a single catastrophe that affects a region, such as an earthquake that affects the West Coast or a hurricane or severe winter storm that affects the Mid-Atlantic, Metro New York/New Jersey or New England regions, may have a significant negative effect on our financial condition and results of operations.
Terrorism risk.
We have significant investments in large metropolitan markets, such as the Metro New York/New Jersey and Washington, D.C. markets, that have in the past been or may in the future be the target of actual or threatened terrorist attacks.  Future terrorist attacks in these markets could directly or indirectly damage our communities, both physically and financially, or cause losses that exceed our insurance coverage that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
A significant uninsured property or liability loss could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.
In addition to the earthquake insurance discussed above, we carry commercial general liability insurance, property insurance and terrorism insurance with respect to our communities on terms we consider commercially reasonable. There are, however, certain types of losses (such as losses arising from acts of war) that are not insured, in full or in part, because they are either uninsurable or the cost of insurance makes it, in management's view, economically impractical. If an uninsured property loss or a property loss in excess of insured limits were to occur, we could lose our capital invested in a community, as well as the anticipated future revenues from such community. We would also continue to be obligated to repay any mortgage indebtedness or other obligations related to the community. If an uninsured liability to a third party were to occur, we would incur the cost of defense and settlement with, or court ordered damages to, that third party. A significant uninsured property or liability loss could materially and adversely affect our business and our financial condition and results of operations.
We may incur costs due to environmental contamination or non-compliance.
Under various federal, state and local environmental and public health laws, regulations and ordinances, we may be required, regardless of knowledge or responsibility, to investigate and remediate the effects of hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum product releases at our properties (including in some cases natural substances such as methane and radon gas) and may be held liable under these laws or common law to a governmental entity or to third parties for property, personal injury or natural resources damages and for investigation and remediation costs incurred as a result of the contamination. These damages and costs may be substantial and may exceed any insurance coverage we have for such events. The presence of these substances, or the failure to properly remediate the contamination, may adversely affect our ability to borrow against, develop, sell or rent the affected property. In addition, some environmental laws create or allow a government agency to impose a lien on the contaminated site in favor of the government for damages and costs it incurs as a result of the contamination.
The development, construction and operation of our communities are subject to regulations and permitting under various federal, state and local laws, regulations and ordinances, which regulate matters including wetlands protection, storm water runoff and wastewater discharge. These laws and regulations may impose restrictions on the manner in which our communities may be developed, and noncompliance with these laws and regulations may subject us to fines and penalties.
Certain federal, state and local laws, regulations and ordinances govern the removal, encapsulation or disturbance of asbestos containing materials ("ACMs") when such materials are in poor condition or in the event of renovation or demolition of a building. These laws and the common law may impose liability for release of ACMsand may allow third parties to seek recovery from owners or operators of real properties for personal injury associated with exposure to ACMs.We are not aware that any ACMswere used in the construction of the communities we developed. ACMswere, however, used in the construction of a number of the communities that we acquired. We implement an operations and maintenance program at each of the communities at which ACMsare detected.
We are aware that some of our communities have lead paint and have implemented an operations and maintenance program at each of those communities.
Environmental agencies and third parties may assert claims for remediation or personal injury based on the alleged actual or potential intrusion into buildings of chemical vapors from soils or groundwater underlying or in the vicinity of those buildings or on nearby properties.
All of our stabilized operating communities, and all of the communities that we are currently developing, have been subjected to at least a PhaseI or similar environmental assessment, which generally does not involve invasive techniques such as soil or groundwater sampling. These assessments, together with subsurface assessments conducted on some properties, have not revealed, and we are not otherwise aware of, any environmental conditions that we believe would have a material adverse effect on our business, assets, financial condition or results of operations. In connection with our ownership, operation and development of communities, from time to time we undertake substantial remedial action in response to the presence of subsurface or other 14 Table of Contents contaminants, including contaminants in soil, groundwater and soil vapor beneath or affecting our buildings. In some cases, an indemnity exists upon which we may be able to rely if environmental liability arises from the contamination or remediation costs exceed estimates. There can be no assurance, however, that all necessary remediation actions have been or will be undertaken at our properties or that we will be indemnified, in full or at all, in the event that environmental liability arises.
Mold growth may occur when excessive moisture accumulates in buildings or on building materials, particularly if the moisture problem remains undiscovered or is not addressed over a period of time. Although the occurrence of mold at multifamily and other structures, and the need to remediate such mold, is not a new phenomenon, there has been increased awareness in recent years that certain molds may in some instances lead to adverse health effects, including allergic or other reactions. To help limit mold growth, we educate residents about the importance of adequate ventilation and request or require that they notify us when they see mold or excessive moisture. We have established procedures for promptly addressing and remediating mold or excessive moisture from apartment homes when we become aware of its presence regardless of whether we or the resident believe a health risk is presented. However, we cannot provide assurance that mold or excessive moisture will be detected and remediated in a timely manner. If a significant mold problem arises at one of our communities, we could be required to undertake a costly remediation program to contain or remove the mold from the affected community and could be exposed to other liabilities that may exceed any applicable insurance coverage.
Additionally, we have occasionally been involved in developing, managing, leasing and operating various properties for third parties. Consequently, we may be considered to have been an operator of such properties and, therefore, potentially liable for removal or remediation costs or other potential costs which relate to the release or presence of hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum products at such properties.
We cannot assure you that:  the environmental assessments described above have identified all potential environmental liabilities;  no prior owner created any material environmental condition not known to us or the consultants who prepared the assessments;  no environmental liabilities have developed since the environmental assessments were prepared;  the condition of land or operations in the vicinity of our communities, such as the presence of underground storage tanks, will not affect the environmental condition of our communities;  future uses or conditions, including, without limitation, changes in applicable environmental laws and regulations, will not result in the imposition of environmental liability; and  no environmental liabilities will arise at communities that we have sold for which we may have liability.
Our success depends on key personnel whose continued service is not guaranteed.
Our success depends in part on our ability to attract and retain the services of executive officers and other personnel. Our executive officers make important capital allocation decisions or recommendations to our Board of Directors from among the opportunities identified by our regional offices. There is substantial competition for qualified personnel in the real estate industry, and the loss of several of our key personnel could adversely affect the Company.
Failure to qualify as a REIT would cause us to be taxed as a corporation, which would significantly reduce funds available for distribution to stockholders.
If we fail to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we will be subject to federal income tax on our taxable income at regular corporate rates (subject to any applicable alternative minimum tax). In addition, unless we are entitled to relief under applicable statutory provisions, we would be ineligible to make an election for treatment as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year in which we lose our qualification. The additional tax liability resulting from the failure to qualify as a REIT would significantly reduce or eliminate the amount of funds available for distribution to our stockholders. Furthermore, we would no longer be required to make distributions to our stockholders. Thus, our failure to qualify as a REIT could also impair our ability to expand our business and raise capital, and would adversely affect the value of our common stock.
We believe that we are organized and qualified as a REIT, and we intend to operate in a manner that will allow us to continue to qualify as a REIT. However, we cannot assure you that we are qualified as a REIT, or that we will remain qualified in the future. This is because qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex provisions of the Internal Revenue Code for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations and involves the determination of a variety of factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control. Our qualification as a REIT will depend on our satisfaction of certain asset, income, organizational, distribution, shareholder ownership and other requirements on a continuing basis. In addition, 15 Table of Contents future legislation, new regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions may significantly change the tax laws or the application of the tax laws with respect to qualification as a REIT for federal income tax purposes or the federal income tax consequences of this qualification.
Even if we qualify as a REIT, we will be subject to certain federal, state and local taxes on our income and property and on taxable income that we do not distribute to our shareholders. In addition, we may through our taxable REIT subsidiaries hold certain assets and engage in certain activities that a REIT could not engage in directly. We also use taxable REIT subsidiaries to hold certain assets that we believe would be subject to the 100% prohibited transaction tax if sold at a gain outside of a taxable REIT subsidiary. Our taxable REIT subsidiaries are subject to U.S. tax as regular corporations. The Archstone Acquisition increased the amount of assets held through our taxable REIT subsidiaries.
The ability of our stockholders to control our policies and effect a change of control of our company is limited by certain provisions of our charter and bylaws and by Maryland law.
There are provisions in our charter and bylaws that may discourage a third party from making a proposal to acquire us, even if some of our stockholders might consider the proposal to be in their best interests. These provisions include the following: Our charter authorizes our Board of Directors to issue up to 50,000,000 shares of preferred stock without stockholder approval and to establish the preferences and rights, including voting rights, of any series of preferred stock issued. The Board of Directors may issue preferred stock without stockholder approval, which could allow the Board to issue one or more classes or series of preferred stock that could discourage or delay a tender offer or a change in control.
To maintain our qualification as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, not more than 50% in value of our outstanding stock may be owned, directly or indirectly, by or for five or fewer individuals at any time during the last half of any taxable year. To maintain this qualification, and/or to address other concerns about concentrations of ownership of our stock, our charter generally prohibits ownership (directly, indirectly by virtue of the attribution provisions of the Code, or beneficially as defined in Section13 of the Securities Exchange Act) by any single stockholder of more than 9.8% of the issued and outstanding shares of any class or series of our stock. In general, under our charter, pension plans and mutual funds may directly and beneficially own up to 15% of the outstanding shares of any class or series of stock. Under our charter, our Board of Directors may in its sole discretion waive or modify the ownership limit for one or more persons, but is not required to do so even if such waiver would not affect our qualification as a REIT. These ownership limits may prevent or delay a change in control and, as a result, could adversely affect our stockholders' ability to realize a premium for their shares of common stock.
As a Maryland corporation, we are subject to the provisions of the Maryland General Corporation Law. Maryland law imposes restrictions on some business combinations and requires compliance with statutory procedures before some mergers and acquisitions may occur, which may delay or prevent offers to acquire us or increase the difficulty of completing any offers, even if they are in our stockholders' best interests. In addition, other provisions of the Maryland General Corporation Law permit the Board of Directors to make elections and to take actions without stockholder approval (such as classifying our Board such that the entire Board is not up for re-election annually) that, if made or taken, could have the effect of discouraging or delaying a change in control.
16 Table of Contents ITEM 1B.UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None.
ITEM 2.COMMUNITIES Our real estate investments consist primarily of current operating apartment communities, communities in various stages of development ("Development Communities") and Development Rights (as defined below). Our current operating communities are further distinguished as Established Communities, Other Stabilized Communities, Lease-Up Communities, Redevelopment Communities and Unconsolidated Communities. While we generally establish the classification of communities on an annual basis, we intend to update the classification of communities during the calendar year to the extent that our plans with regard to the disposition or redevelopment of a community change during the year.
The following is a description of each category: Current Communities are categorized as Established, Other Stabilized, Lease-Up, Redevelopment, or Unconsolidated according to the following attributes:  Established Communities (also known as Same Store Communities) are consolidated communities where a comparison of operating results from the prior year to the current year is meaningful, as these communities were owned and had stabilized occupancy as of the beginning of the prior year. The Established Communities for the year ended December31, 2015 are communities that are consolidated for financial reporting purposes, had stabilized occupancy as of January1, 2014, are not conducting or planning to conduct substantial redevelopment activities, and are not held for sale or planned for disposition within the current year period. A community is considered to have stabilized occupancy at the earlier of (i)attainment of 95% physical occupancy or (ii)the one-year anniversary of completion of development or redevelopment.
Other Stabilized Communities includes all other completed communities that we own and that are consolidated for financial reporting purposes, and that have stabilized occupancy, as defined above. Other Stabilized Communities do not include communities that are conducting or planning to conduct substantial redevelopment activities within the current year.
Lease-Up Communities are communities where construction has been complete for less than one year and where physical occupancy has not reached 95% .
Redevelopment Communities are communities where substantial redevelopment is in progress or is planned to begin during the current year. Redevelopment is considered substantial when capital invested during the reconstruction effort is expected to exceed the lesser of $5,000,000 or 10% of the community's pre-redevelopment basis and is expected to have a material impact on the operations of the community, including occupancy levels and future rental rates.
Unconsolidated Communities are communities that we have an indirect ownership interest in through our investment interest in an unconsolidated joint venture, and that have stabilized occupancy, as defined above.
Development Communities are communities that are under construction and for which a certificate or certificates of occupancy for the entire community have not been received. These communities may be partially complete and operating.
Development Rights are development opportunities in the early phase of the development process where we either have an option to acquire land or enter into a leasehold interest, where we are the buyer under a long-term conditional contract to purchase land, where we control the land through a ground lease or own land to develop a new community, or where we are the designated developer in a public-private partnership. We capitalize related pre-development costs incurred in pursuit of new developments for which we currently believe future development is probable.
We currently lease our corporate headquarters located in Arlington, Virginia, as well as our other regional and administrative offices under operating leases.
As of December31, 2015 , communities that we owned or held a direct or indirect interest in were classified as follows: 17 Table of Contents Number of communities Number of apartment homes Current Communities Established Communities: New England 33 7,277 Metro NY/NJ 34 11,355 Mid-Atlantic 26 8,789 Pacific Northwest 14 3,444 Northern California 30 9,201 Southern California 40 11,068 Total Established 177 51,134 Other Stabilized Communities: New England 10 2,477 Metro NY/NJ 6 1,404 Mid-Atlantic 3 970 Pacific Northwest 1 283 Northern California 6 1,201 Southern California 7 3,313 Non-Core 3 1,014 Total Other Stabilized 36 10,662 Lease-Up Communities 17 4,844 Redevelopment Communities 9 2,795 Unconsolidated Communities 20 6,149 Total Current Communities 259 75,584 Development Communities 26 8,112 Total Communities 285 83,696 Development Rights 32 9,634 Our holdings under each of the above categories are discussed on the following pages.
We generally establish the composition of our Established Communities portfolio annually. Determined as of January 1 of each of the respective years, the Established Communities portfolios for the years ended December31, 2015 , 2014 and 2013 were as follows: 18 Table of Contents Number of communities Established Communities as of December 31, 2012 103 Communities added 19 Communities removed (1):  Redevelopment Communities (5 ) Disposed Communities (2 ) Established Communities as of December 31, 2013 115 Communities added 67 Communities removed (1):  Redevelopment Communities (8 ) Disposed Communities (2 ) Established Communities as of December 31, 2014 172 Communities added 13 Communities removed (1):  Redevelopment Communities (4 ) Disposed Communities (3 ) Other Stabilized (2) (1 ) Established Communities as of December 31, 2015 177 _________________________________ (1) The Company removes a community from its Established Communities portfolio for the upcoming year (and then generally maintains that designation) if the Company believes that planned activity for a community for the upcoming year will result in that community's expected operations not being comparable to the prior year period. The Company believes that a community's expected operations will not be comparable to the prior year period when it intends either (i) to undertake a significant capital renovation of the community, such that the Company would consider the community to be classified as a Redevelopment Community; or (ii) to dispose of a community through a sale or other disposition transaction.
(2) Avalon at Edgewater was moved from the Established Communities portfolio to the Other Stabilized portfolio as a result of the fire that occurred in January 2015.
Current Communities Our Current Communities include garden-style apartment communities consisting of multi-story buildings in landscaped settings, as well as mid and high rise apartment communities in urban settings. As of January31, 2016 , our Current Communities consisted of 140 garden-style (of which 18 are mixed communities and include town homes), 23 high-rise and 94 mid-rise apartment communities.
Our communities generally offer a variety of quality amenities and features, which may include:  fully-equipped kitchens;  lofts and vaulted ceilings;  walk-in closets;  patios/decks; and  modern appliances.
Other features at various communities may include:  swimming pools;  fitness centers;  tennis courts; and  wi-fi lounges.
As described in Item1. "Business," we operate under three core brands Avalon, AVA and Eaves by Avalon.
Our core "Avalon" brand focuses on upscale apartment living and high end amenities and services.
"AVA" targets customers in high energy, transit-served urban neighborhoods and generally feature smaller apartments, many of which are designed for roommate living with an 19 Table of Contents emphasis on modern design and a technology focus.
"Eaves by Avalon" is targeted to the cost conscious, "value" segment in suburban areas. We believe that these brands allow us to further penetrate our existing markets by targeting our market by consumer preference and attitude as well as by location and price.
We also have an extensive and ongoing maintenance program to continually maintain and enhance our communities and apartment homes. The aesthetic appeal of our communities and a service-oriented property management team, focused on the specific needs of residents, enhances market appeal to discriminating residents. We believe our mission of Creating a Better Way To Live helps us achieve higher rental rates and occupancy levels while minimizing resident turnover and operating expenses.
Our Current Communities, excluding indirect interests associated with the Residual JV, are located in the following geographic markets: Number of communities at Number of apartment homes at Percentage of total apartment homes at 1/31/2015 1/31/2016 1/31/2015 1/31/2016 1/31/2015 1/31/2016 New England 50 53 11,444 12,528 15.5 % 16.6 % Boston, MA 36 39 8,555 9,639 11.6 % 12.8 % Fairfield-New Haven, CT 14 14 2,889 2,889 3.9 % 3.8 % Metro NY/NJ 47 49 15,018 14,843 20.2 % 19.7 % New York City, NY 10 12 3,582 4,292 4.8 % 5.7 % New York Suburban 19 17 5,554 4,949 7.5 % 6.6 % New Jersey 18 20 5,882 5,602 7.9 % 7.4 % Mid-Atlantic 37 36 13,308 13,308 18.0 % 17.6 % Washington Metro/Baltimore, MD 37 36 13,308 13,308 18.0 % 17.6 % Pacific Northwest 16 17 3,858 4,225 5.2 % 5.6 % Seattle, WA 16 17 3,858 4,225 5.2 % 5.6 % Northern California 41 41 11,974 12,158 16.2 % 16.0 % San Jose, CA 14 14 4,903 5,158 6.6 % 6.8 % Oakland-East Bay, CA 12 11 3,591 3,338 4.9 % 4.4 % San Francisco, CA 15 16 3,480 3,662 4.7 % 4.8 % Southern California 57 58 17,132 17,473 23.2 % 23.2 % Los Angeles, CA 35 36 10,575 10,855 14.4 % 14.5 % Orange County, CA 12 12 3,425 3,715 4.6 % 4.9 % San Diego, CA 10 10 3,132 2,903 4.2 % 3.8 % Non-Core 4 3 1,266 1,014 1.7 % 1.3 % 252 257 74,000 75,549 100.0 % 100.0 % We manage and operate substantially all of our Current Communities. During the year ended December31, 2015 , we completed construction of 4,170 apartment homes in 13 communities and sold seven communities containing an aggregate of 2,311 apartment homes. The average age of our Current Communities, on a weighted average basis according to number of apartment homes, is 19.1 years. When adjusted to reflect redevelopment activity, as if redevelopment were a new construction completion date, the weighted average age of our Current Communities is 13.2 years.
Of the Current Communities, as of January31, 2016 , we owned (directly or through wholly-owned subsidiaries):  a full fee simple, or absolute, ownership interest in 236 operating communities, 16 of which are on land subject to land leases, four of which are dual-branded communities with each pair of dual-branded communities being governed by a single land lease. The leases expire in October 2026, November 2028, May 2041, July 2046, December 2061, September 2065, November 2067, December 2086, April 2095, May 2105, September 2105, April 2106, November 2106 and March 2142; 20 Table of Contents  a general partnership interest and an indirect limited partnership interest in Fund II, the U.S. Fund and the AC JV. Subsidiaries of Fund II own a fee simple interest in six operating communities, subsidiaries of the U.S. Fund own a fee simple interest in eight operating communities, of which one is subject to a land lease, and subsidiaries of the AC JV own a fee simple interest in three operating communities;  a general partnership interest in one partnership structured as a "DownREIT," as described more fully below, that owns one community; and  a membership interest in three limited liability companies, that each hold a fee simple interest in an operating community.
For some communities, a land lease is used to support tax advantaged structures that ultimately allow us to purchase the land upon lease expiration. We have options to purchase the underlying land for certain of the land leases for which we have an absolute ownership interest that expire in October 2026, November 2028, May 2041, July 2046, December 2086 and April 2095.
We also hold, directly or through wholly-owned subsidiaries, the full fee simple ownership interest in 25 of the 26 Development Communities. We are developing one Development Community with a private development partner and we will own the multifamily rental portion of the development.
In our partnership structured as a DownREIT, one of our wholly-owned subsidiaries is the general partner, and there are limited partners whose interest in the partnership is represented by units of limited partnership interest. Limited partners are entitled to receive an initial distribution before any distribution is made to the general partner. Under the partnership agreement for the DownREIT, the distributions per unit paid to the holders of units of limited partnership interests are equal to our current common stock dividend amount. The holders of units of limited partnership interest have the right to present all or some of their units for redemption for a cash amount as determined by the partnership agreement and based on the fair value of our common stock. In lieu of a cash redemption by the partnership, we may elect to acquire any unit presented for redemption for one share of our common stock or for such cash amount. As of January31, 2016 , there were 7,500 DownREIT partnership units outstanding. The DownREIT partnership is consolidated for financial reporting purposes.
21 Table of Contents Profile of Current, Development and Unconsolidated Communities (1) Approx.
rentable area (Sq. Ft.) Year of completion/ acquisition Average size (Sq. Ft.) Physical occupancy at 12/31/15 Average economic occupancy Average rental rate Financial reporting cost (3) City and state Number of homes 2015 2014 $ per Apt (2) $ per Sq. Ft.
ESTABLISHED COMMUNITIES NEW ENGLAND Boston, MA Avalon at Lexington Lexington, MA 198 230,956 1994 1,166 94.9 % 94.7 % 93.8 % $ 2,304 $ 1.98 $ 24,038 Eaves Quincy Quincy, MA 245 224,538 1986/1995 916 94.7 % 95.4 % 94.6 % 1,756 1.92 26,099 Avalon Essex Peabody, MA 154 198,478 2000 1,289 94.8 % 97.0 % 95.9 % 2,018 1.57 23,515 Avalon Oaks West Wilmington, MA 120 133,376 2002 1,111 94.2 % 95.3 % 95.8 % 1,693 1.52 17,602 Avalon Orchards Marlborough, MA 156 175,832 2002 1,127 95.5 % 96.5 % 95.3 % 1,759 1.56 23,175 Avalon at Newton Highlands (4) Newton, MA 294 341,285 2003 1,161 94.9 % 95.1 % 96.4 % 2,757 2.38 60,354 Avalon at The Pinehills Plymouth, MA 192 255,231 2004 1,329 93.2 % 95.5 % 95.3 % 2,248 1.69 37,594 Eaves Peabody Peabody, MA 286 250,624 1962/2004 876 97.9 % 97.5 % 95.8 % 1,631 1.86 35,970 Avalon at Bedford Center Bedford, MA 139 159,914 2006 1,150 95.0 % 96.3 % 97.4 % 2,215 1.93 25,276 Avalon at Chestnut Hill Chestnut Hill, MA 204 270,956 2007 1,328 96.6 % 96.3 % 97.2 % 3,202 2.41 62,560 Avalon Shrewsbury Shrewsbury, MA 251 272,861 2007 1,087 95.6 % 96.3 % 94.4 % 1,660 1.53 36,968 Avalon at Lexington Hills Lexington, MA 387 484,402 2008 1,252 95.3 % 95.1 % 95.9 % 2,547 2.04 89,481 Avalon Acton Acton, MA 380 375,074 2008 987 95.5 % 95.4 % 95.0 % 1,688 1.71 64,377 Avalon at Hingham Shipyard Hingham, MA 235 290,951 2009 1,238 91.0 % 94.4 % 94.1 % 2,646 2.14 54,664 Avalon Sharon Sharon, MA 156 175,389 2008 1,124 95.5 % 95.6 % 94.9 % 2,036 1.81 30,626 Avalon Northborough Northborough, MA 382 454,033 2009 1,189 97.1 % 96.1 % 94.2 % 1,877 1.58 60,690 Avalon Blue Hills Randolph, MA 276 269,990 2009 978 94.9 % 95.3 % 95.3 % 1,647 1.68 46,444 Avalon Cohasset Cohasset, MA 220 293,272 2012 1,333 93.2 % 95.2 % 93.0 % 2,230 1.67 55,073 Avalon Andover Andover, MA 115 132,918 2012 1,156 96.5 % 95.2 % 92.8 % 1,999 1.73 26,183 Avalon Prudential Center II Boston, MA 266 243,315 1968/1998 915 94.7 % 96.2 % 95.0 % 3,508 3.84 84,182 Avalon Prudential Center I Boston, MA 243 242,410 1968/1998 998 97.1 % 96.0 % 95.4 % 3,731 3.74 71,412 Eaves North Quincy Quincy, MA 224 157,908 1977/2013 705 95.5 % 94.5 % 96.3 % 1,884 2.67 54,154 Avalon at Center Place (5) Providence, RI 225 222,477 1991/1997 989 93.2 % 96.2 % 95.2 % 2,799 2.83 37,379 Fairfield - New Haven, CT Eaves Stamford Stamford, CT 238 222,165 1991 933 94.9 % 95.8 % 94.3 % 2,256 2.42 42,747 Avalon Wilton I Wilton, CT 102 158,259 1997 1,552 94.1 % 94.5 % 96.0 % 3,466 2.23 22,621 Avalon New Canaan New Canaan, CT 104 132,080 2002 1,270 94.2 % 94.9 % 92.8 % 3,318 2.61 29,524 AVA Stamford Stamford, CT 306 315,380 2002/2002 1,031 96.7 % 95.1 % 95.5 % 2,418 2.35 75,152 Avalon Danbury Danbury, CT 234 235,320 2005 1,006 96.6 % 96.4 % 96.4 % 1,755 1.74 36,368 Avalon Darien Darien, CT 189 242,675 2004 1,284 95.2 % 96.1 % 94.7 % 2,968 2.31 43,579 Avalon Milford I Milford, CT 246 217,077 2004 882 95.9 % 95.8 % 95.5 % 1,624 1.84 32,459 Avalon Norwalk Norwalk, CT 311 310,629 2011 999 96.5 % 96.7 % 96.3 % 2,143 2.15 74,670 Avalon Huntington Shelton, CT 99 139,925 2008 1,413 95.9 % 97.2 % 96.7 % 2,371 1.68 25,443 Avalon Wilton II Wilton, CT 100 128,716 2011 1,287 91.0 % 96.5 % 96.6 % 2,497 1.94 30,367 22 Table of Contents Approx.
rentable area (Sq. Ft.) Year of completion/ acquisition Average size (Sq. Ft.) Physical occupancy at 12/31/15 Average economic occupancy Average rental rate Financial reporting cost (3) City and state Number of homes 2015 2014 $ per Apt (2) $ per Sq. Ft.
METRO NY/NJ New York City, NY Avalon Riverview I (5) Long Island City, NY 372 333,165 2002 896 96.0 % 96.1 % 97.6 % 3,827 4.27 100,708 Avalon Bowery Place New York, NY 206 152,725 2006 741 93.2 % 96.2 % 96.9 % 5,477 7.39 95,967 Avalon Riverview North (5) Long Island City, NY 602 477,665 2008 793 95.2 % 95.7 % 97.2 % 3,607 4.55 169,005 Avalon Bowery Place II New York, NY 90 73,596 2007 818 100.0 % 96.2 % 96.9 % 5,142 6.29 59,603 Avalon Morningside Park (5) New York, NY 295 245,320 2009 832 96.3 % 95.5 % 96.5 % 3,859 4.64 115,270 Avalon Fort Greene Brooklyn, NY 631 498,651 2010 790 95.7 % 96.1 % 97.0 % 3,405 4.31 300,700 Avalon Midtown West New York, NY 550 393,480 1998/2013 715 95.3 % 95.5 % 95.2 % 4,029 5.63 347,282 Avalon Clinton North New York, NY 339 222,862 2008/2013 657 95.9 % 94.6 % 94.0 % 3,379 5.14 197,190 Avalon Clinton South New York, NY 288 196,798 2007/2013 683 94.8 % 93.7 % 94.3 % 3,450 5.05 166,510 New York - Suburban Avalon Commons Smithtown, NY 312 377,318 1997 1,209 95.8 % 96.2 % 96.5 % 2,467 2.04 38,775 Eaves Nanuet Nanuet, NY 504 608,842 1998 1,208 96.4 % 95.9 % 96.9 % 2,391 1.98 58,459 Avalon Willow Mamaroneck, NY 227 216,289 2000 953 95.6 % 94.4 % 95.6 % 2,605 2.73 48,725 Avalon Court Melville, NY 494 596,874 1997 1,208 94.1 % 95.4 % 96.3 % 2,865 2.37 62,395 The Avalon Bronxville, NY 110 118,952 1999 1,081 92.7 % 92.3 % 93.6 % 4,677 4.33 39,216 Avalon at Glen Cove (5) Glen Cove, NY 256 261,425 2004 1,021 94.1 % 95.6 % 96.2 % 2,734 2.68 69,303 Avalon Pines Coram, NY 450 545,989 2005 1,213 95.3 % 96.1 % 96.9 % 2,301 1.90 72,577 Avalon Glen Cove North (5) Glen Cove, NY 111 100,754 2007 908 95.5 % 94.9 % 96.1 % 2,517 2.77 40,277 Avalon White Plains White Plains, NY 407 372,406 2009 915 94.8 % 95.0 % 95.6 % 3,141 3.43 152,954 Avalon Rockville Centre Rockville Centre, NY 349 349,048 2012 1,000 98.6 % 96.1 % 96.4 % 3,100 3.10 111,029 Avalon Green II Elmsford, NY 444 533,544 2012 1,202 91.0 % 94.8 % 94.8 % 2,804 2.33 105,326 Avalon Garden City Garden City, NY 204 288,443 2013 1,414 93.6 % 95.5 % 97.2 % 3,902 2.76 67,577 Avalon Westbury Westbury, NY 396 401,496 2006/2013 1,014 96.0 % 95.9 % 96.5 % 2,776 2.74 123,283 New Jersey Avalon Cove Jersey City, NJ 504 575,393 1997 1,142 95.2 % 96.8 % 96.5 % 3,630 3.18 112,301 Eaves Lawrenceville (6) Lawrenceville, NJ 632 707,592 1994 1,120 94.6 % 95.4 % 95.3 % 1,639 1.46 82,880 Avalon Princeton Junction West Windsor, NJ 512 486,069 1988/1993 949 94.3 % 95.5 % 95.9 % 1,771 1.87 48,894 Avalon at Florham Park Florham Park, NJ 270 330,410 2001 1,224 96.7 % 95.1 % 96.0 % 2,886 2.36 44,105 Avalon at Freehold Freehold, NJ 296 317,356 2002 1,072 94.2 % 96.0 % 95.8 % 1,959 1.83 35,683 Avalon Run East Lawrenceville, NJ 312 341,320 2005 1,094 93.9 % 95.7 % 96.0 % 2,006 1.83 53,239 Avalon at Tinton Falls Tinton Falls, NJ 216 237,747 2008 1,101 93.1 % 95.4 % 95.7 % 1,984 1.80 41,504 Avalon at West Long Branch West Long Branch, NJ 180 193,511 2011 1,075 93.9 % 95.2 % 95.9 % 2,071 1.93 25,717 Avalon North Bergen North Bergen, NJ 164 146,170 2012 891 93.9 % 96.1 % 97.5 % 2,406 2.70 40,900 Avalon at Wesmont Station Wood-Ridge, NJ 266 242,637 2012 912 94.0 % 96.1 % 96.7 % 2,096 2.30 57,017 Avalon Hackensack at Riverside (5) Hackensack, NJ 226 228,393 2013 1,011 95.1 % 96.9 % 96.8 % 2,655 2.63 44,625 23 Table of Contents Approx.
rentable area (Sq. Ft.) Year of completion/ acquisition Average size (Sq. Ft.) Physical occupancy at 12/31/15 Average economic occupancy Average rental rate Financial reporting cost (3) City and state Number of homes 2015 2014 $ per Apt (2) $ per Sq. Ft.
Avalon at Wesmont Station II Wood-Ridge, NJ 140 146,799 2013 1,049 97.9 % 94.9 % 97.2 % 2,110 2.01 23,365 MID-ATLANTIC Washington Metro/Baltimore, MD Avalon at Foxhall Washington, DC 308 297,700 1982/1994 967 95.8 % 94.4 % 92.4 % 2,799 2.90 47,018 Avalon at Gallery Place Washington, DC 203 184,157 2003 907 97.5 % 96.9 % 95.7 % 2,916 3.21 50,452 AVA H Street Washington, DC 138 95,594 2013 693 94.9 % 94.4 % 95.5 % 2,215 3.20 32,707 Avalon The Albemarle Washington, DC 228 255,002 1966/2013 1,118 93.0 % 94.5 % 95.6 % 2,641 2.36 82,207 Eaves Tunlaw Gardens Washington, DC 166 113,512 1944/2013 684 97.6 % 95.7 % 96.8 % 1,749 2.56 41,432 The Statesman Washington, DC 281 190,420 1961/2013 678 94.0 % 95.3 % 94.0 % 2,027 2.99 77,207 Eaves Glover Park Washington, DC 120 104,162 1953/2013 868 93.3 % 95.6 % 95.2 % 2,274 2.62 38,258 AVA Van Ness Washington, DC 269 225,592 1978/2013 839 94.0 % 95.8 % 94.3 % 2,118 2.53 85,237 Avalon First & M Washington, DC 469 410,812 2012/2013 876 93.8 % 95.4 % 93.1 % 2,806 3.20 200,315 Avalon at Fairway Hills (6) Columbia, MD 720 724,027 1987/1996 1,006 95.7 % 95.4 % 95.4 % 1,545 1.54 59,127 Eaves Washingtonian Center I North Potomac, MD 192 191,280 1996 996 92.7 % 96.1 % 96.9 % 1,549 1.55 15,191 Eaves Washingtonian Center II North Potomac, MD 96 99,386 1998 1,035 96.9 % 96.8 % 95.7 % 1,724 1.67 8,505 Eaves Columbia Town Center Columbia, MD 392 395,860 1986/1993 1,010 40.8 % 95.7 % 96.5 % 1,552 1.54 55,950 Avalon at Grosvenor Station Bethesda, MD 497 476,687 2004 959 95.0 % 96.2 % 95.4 % 1,948 2.03 84,301 Avalon at Traville Rockville, MD 520 573,717 2004 1,103 92.1 % 94.9 % 96.2 % 1,925 1.74 72,519 Avalon Russett Laurel, MD 238 274,663 1999/2013 1,154 97.5 % 96.4 % 96.6 % 1,849 1.60 60,537 Eaves Fair Lakes Fairfax, VA 420 355,228 1989/1996 846 95.5 % 96.0 % 96.7 % 1,606 1.90 38,848 AVA Ballston Arlington, VA 344 294,271 1990 855 93.9 % 94.8 % 94.4 % 2,175 2.54 52,585 Eaves Fairfax City Fairfax, VA 141 148,282 1988/1997 1,052 97.2 % 95.0 % 96.4 % 1,873 1.78 16,449 Avalon Park Crest Tysons Corner, VA 354 288,231 2013 814 96.3 % 97.3 % 96.3 % 2,054 2.52 77,112 Eaves Fairfax Towers Falls Church, VA 415 336,051 1978/2011 810 96.6 % 96.3 % 96.4 % 1,775 2.19 94,495 Avalon Ballston Place Arlington, VA 383 333,225 2001/2013 870 94.5 % 94.8 % 94.9 % 2,447 2.81 166,042 Eaves Tysons Corner Vienna, VA 217 209,940 1980/2013 967 98.2 % 96.6 % 96.4 % 1,820 1.88 64,031 Avalon Ballston Square Arlington, VA 714 626,170 1992/2013 877 95.9 % 96.1 % 96.0 % 2,335 2.66 299,649 Avalon Courthouse Place Arlington, VA 564 478,896 1999/2013 849 95.4 % 94.5 % 94.6 % 2,379 2.80 243,450 Avalon Reston Landing Reston, VA 400 398,192 2000/2013 995 95.5 % 95.8 % 96.4 % 1,826 1.83 114,199 PACIFIC NORTHWEST Seattle, WA Avalon Redmond Place Redmond, WA 222 211,450 1991/1997 952 95.5 % 95.4 % 95.8 % 1,824 1.91 33,173 Avalon at Bear Creek Redmond, WA 264 288,250 1998/1998 1,092 95.8 % 95.5 % 95.1 % 1,837 1.68 38,022 Avalon Bellevue Bellevue, WA 201 165,504 2001 823 91.5 % 95.7 % 94.9 % 1,998 2.43 32,509 Avalon RockMeadow Bothell, WA 206 243,958 2000/2000 1,184 95.6 % 94.4 % 95.4 % 1,634 1.38 26,756 Avalon ParcSquare Redmond, WA 124 127,251 2000/2000 1,026 94.4 % 93.8 % 94.8 % 1,986 1.93 21,598 Avalon Brandemoor Lynnwood, WA 424 453,602 2001/2001 1,070 95.3 % 94.5 % 94.8 % 1,478 1.38 47,098 AVA Belltown Seattle, WA 100 82,418 2001 824 97.0 % 94.0 % 95.5 % 2,185 2.65 19,265 24 Table of Contents Approx.
rentable area (Sq. Ft.) Year of completion/ acquisition Average size (Sq. Ft.) Physical occupancy at 12/31/15 Average economic occupancy Average rental rate Financial reporting cost (3) City and state Number of homes 2015 2014 $ per Apt (2) $ per Sq. Ft.
Avalon Meydenbauer Bellevue, WA 368 331,945 2008 902 95.9 % 96.2 % 96.3 % 2,091 2.32 91,099 Avalon Towers Bellevue (5) Bellevue, WA 397 331,366 2011 835 95.7 % 95.2 % 95.4 % 2,492 2.99 123,845 AVA Queen Anne Seattle, WA 203 164,644 2012 811 97.5 % 95.1 % 95.4 % 2,201 2.71 54,046 Avalon Brandemoor II Lynnwood, WA 82 93,320 2011 1,138 96.3 % 95.3 % 94.2 % 1,673 1.47 13,998 AVA Ballard Seattle, WA 265 190,043 2013 717 94.3 % 94.7 % 96.2 % 2,013 2.81 64,304 Eaves Redmond Campus Redmond, WA 422 429,190 1991/2013 1,017 96.7 % 95.0 % 94.4 % 1,963 1.93 116,270 Archstone Redmond Lakeview Redmond, WA 166 141,000 1987/2013 849 97.0 % 95.3 % 95.9 % 1,658 1.95 39,057 NORTHERN CALIFORNIA San Jose, CA Avalon Campbell Campbell, CA 348 326,796 1995 939 96.0 % 95.5 % 95.3 % 2,530 2.69 73,094 Eaves San Jose San Jose, CA 440 387,420 1985/1996 881 80.0 % 95.2 % 96.4 % 2,369 2.69 84,835 Avalon on the Alameda San Jose, CA 305 299,762 1999 983 94.7 % 94.5 % 96.0 % 2,823 2.87 58,204 Avalon Mountain View (12) Mountain View, CA 248 211,525 1986 853 95.2 % 95.5 % 96.3 % 3,036 3.56 59,108 Avalon at Cahill Park San Jose, CA 218 218,177 2002 1,001 97.2 % 95.4 % 96.2 % 2,862 2.86 53,849 Avalon Towers on the Peninsula Mountain View, CA 211 218,392 2002 1,035 98.1 % 96.5 % 96.8 % 3,848 3.72 66,814 Avalon Willow Glen San Jose, CA 412 382,147 2002/2013 928 94.9 % 95.7 % 95.2 % 2,520 2.72 132,113 Eaves West Valley San Jose, CA 789 504,813 1970/2013 640 94.2 % 95.7 % 96.6 % 1,924 3.01 211,920 Eaves Mountain View at Middlefield Mountain View, CA 402 261,600 1969/2013 651 92.5 % 95.3 % 96.1 % 2,481 3.81 138,200 Oakland - East Bay, CA Avalon Fremont Fremont, CA 308 316,052 1992/1994 1,026 96.4 % 95.9 % 96.9 % 2,497 2.43 59,415 Eaves Pleasanton Pleasanton, CA 456 366,062 1988/1994 803 94.9 % 95.1 % 96.2 % 2,210 2.75 79,583 Eaves Union City Union City, CA 208 150,225 1973/1996 722 96.2 % 95.6 % 96.4 % 1,975 2.73 23,987 Eaves Fremont Fremont, CA 235 191,935 1985/1994 817 97.4 % 95.5 % 96.1 % 2,317 2.84 42,895 Avalon Union City Union City, CA 439 429,800 2009 979 96.8 % 95.1 % 96.4 % 2,234 2.28 119,467 Avalon Walnut Creek (5) Walnut Creek, CA 418 410,218 2010 981 94.3 % 95.2 % 96.3 % 2,721 2.77 148,243 Eaves Walnut Creek Walnut Creek, CA 510 380,542 1987/2013 746 95.5 % 95.5 % 96.3 % 1,922 2.58 124,327 Avalon Walnut Ridge II Walnut Creek, CA 360 251,901 1989/2013 700 95.3 % 95.4 % 96.5 % 2,017 2.88 87,617 San Francisco, CA Eaves Daly City Daly City, CA 195 141,411 1972/1997 725 95.9 % 96.3 % 96.9 % 2,384 3.29 32,631 AVA Nob Hill San Francisco, CA 185 108,962 1990/1995 589 97.8 % 95.2 % 95.7 % 2,885 4.90 33,904 Eaves San Rafael San Rafael, CA 254 221,780 1973/1996 873 96.0 % 96.5 % 97.1 % 2,339 2.68 47,263 Eaves Foster City Foster City, CA 288 222,364 1973/1994 772 96.2 % 95.4 % 96.5 % 2,510 3.25 50,504 Eaves Pacifica Pacifica, CA 220 186,800 1971/1995 849 93.6 % 96.3 % 97.6 % 2,295 2.70 33,648 Avalon Sunset Towers San Francisco, CA 243 171,836 1961/1996 707 93.4 % 93.7 % 95.4 % 2,772 3.92 39,916 Eaves Diamond Heights San Francisco, CA 154 123,047 1972/1994 799 98.7 % 96.1 % 96.7 % 2,640 3.30 29,700 Avalon at Mission Bay North San Francisco, CA 250 241,788 2003 967 94.8 % 95.1 % 96.6 % 4,407 4.56 95,336 Avalon at Mission Bay III San Francisco, CA 260 261,169 2009 1,004 93.1 % 95.2 % 96.2 % 4,445 4.43 147,918 25 Table of Contents Approx.
rentable area (Sq. Ft.) Year of completion/ acquisition Average size (Sq. Ft.) Physical occupancy at 12/31/15 Average economic occupancy Average rental rate Financial reporting cost (3) City and state Number of homes 2015 2014 $ per Apt (2) $ per Sq. Ft.
Avalon Ocean Avenue San Francisco, CA 173 161,083 2012 931 97.7 % 95.4 % 96.1 % 3,542 3.80 58,186 Avalon San Bruno San Bruno, CA 300 267,171 2004/2013 891 96.7 % 95.5 % 96.1 % 2,701 3.03 112,492 Avalon San Bruno II San Bruno, CA 185 156,583 2007/2013 846 95.7 % 95.2 % 96.6 % 2,667 3.15 70,390 Avalon San Bruno III San Bruno, CA 187 232,147 2010/2013 1,241 95.7 % 95.3 % 96.1 % 3,740 3.01 98,625 SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA Los Angeles, CA Avalon Woodland Hills Woodland Hills, CA 663 594,396 1989/1997 897 96.8 % 95.6 % 96.4 % 1,960 2.19 111,554 Eaves Warner Center Woodland Hills, CA 227 191,443 1979/1998 843 95.6 % 96.2 % 96.8 % 1,846 2.19 29,476 Avalon at Glendale (5) Glendale, CA 223 241,714 2003 1,084 96.8 % 96.8 % 97.1 % 2,633 2.43 43,883 Avalon Burbank Burbank, CA 400 360,587 1988/2002 901 96.3 % 96.5 % 96.8 % 2,540 2.82 94,859 Avalon Camarillo Camarillo , CA 249 233,282 2006 937 96.0 % 96.6 % 96.8 % 1,893 2.02 49,145 Avalon Wilshire Los Angeles, CA 123 125,093 2007 1,017 95.9 % 95.6 % 96.9 % 3,117 3.07 47,699 Avalon Encino Encino, CA 131 131,220 2008 1,002 99.2 % 97.2 % 96.9 % 2,888 2.88 62,438 Avalon Warner Place Canoga Park, CA 210 186,402 2008 888 98.1 % 96.0 % 96.8 % 1,927 2.17 52,992 Eaves Phillips Ranch Pomona, CA 501 498,036 1989/2011 994 95.4 % 95.7 % 96.2 % 1,682 1.69 51,965 Eaves San Dimas San Dimas, CA 102 94,200 1978/2011 924 97.1 % 96.2 % 97.2 % 1,520 1.65 10,772 Eaves San Dimas Canyon San Dimas, CA 156 144,669 1981/2011 927 92.9 % 94.9 % 96.6 % 1,634 1.76 15,703 Eaves Cerritos Artesia, CA 151 106,961 1973/2012 708 98.0 % 96.8 % 97.3 % 1,652 2.33 30,930 Avalon Playa Vista Los Angeles, CA 309 283,183 2006/2012 916 96.4 % 96.0 % 96.3 % 2,341 2.55 105,068 Avalon Simi Valley Simi Valley, CA 500 430,218 2007/2013 860 97.2 % 95.5 % 96.0 % 1,820 2.12 119,945 Avalon Studio City II Studio City, CA 101 83,936 1991/2013 831 92.1 % 95.2 % 94.9 % 2,116 2.55 28,802 Avalon Studio City III Studio City, CA 276 263,512 2002/2013 955 94.5 % 94.3 % 93.7 % 2,490 2.61 97,541 Avalon Calabasas Calabasas, CA 600 506,547 1988/2013 844 97.0 % 95.6 % 95.9 % 1,911 2.26 158,823 Avalon Oak Creek Agoura Hills, CA 336 364,176 2004/2013 1,084 96.1 % 96.2 % 96.3 % 2,426 2.24 128,513 Avalon Del Mar Station Pasadena, CA 347 338,390 2006/2013 975 94.8 % 95.3 % 95.6 % 2,409 2.47 130,479 Eaves Old Town Pasadena Pasadena, CA 96 66,420 1972/2013 692 96.9 % 96.2 % 96.9 % 1,931 2.79 25,857 Eaves Thousand Oaks Thousand Oaks, CA 154 134,388 1992/2013 873 97.4 % 95.9 % 96.9 % 2,063 2.36 36,314 Eaves Los Feliz Los Angeles, CA 263 201,830 1989/2013 767 96.2 % 97.3 % 95.6 % 1,926 2.51 66,034 Eaves Woodland Hills Woodland Hills, CA 883 578,668 1971/2013 655 95.5 % 96.5 % 97.0 % 1,506 2.30 168,938 Avalon Thousand Oaks Plaza Thousand Oaks, CA 148 140,464 2002/2013 949 95.3 % 96.1 % 95.8 % 2,121 2.23 37,264 Orange County, CA AVA Newport Costa Mesa, CA 145 122,415 1956/1996 844 96.6 % 95.3 % 93.3 % 2,155 2.55 15,590 Eaves Mission Viejo Mission Viejo, CA 166 124,550 1984/1996 750 96.4 % 95.7 % 96.1 % 1,545 2.06 15,240 Eaves South Coast Costa Mesa, CA 258 207,672 1973/1996 805 96.9 % 96.2 % 95.8 % 1,805 2.24 33,667 Eaves Santa Margarita Rancho Santa Margarita, CA 301 229,593 1990/1997 763 96.0 % 95.9 % 95.3 % 1,684 2.21 31,945 Eaves Huntington Beach Huntington Beach, CA 304 268,000 1971/1997 882 94.7 % 95.8 % 95.9 % 1,837 2.08 34,272 Avalon Anaheim Stadium Anaheim, CA 251 302,480 2009 1,205 93.6 % 95.4 % 95.7 % 2,486 2.06 97,736 Avalon Irvine Irvine, CA 279 243,157 2010 872 94.9 % 95.1 % 95.9 % 2,016 2.31 77,503 26 Table of Contents Approx.
rentable area (Sq. Ft.) Year of completion/ acquisition Average size (Sq. Ft.) Physical occupancy at 12/31/15 Average economic occupancy Average rental rate Financial reporting cost (3) City and state Number of homes 2015 2014 $ per Apt (2) $ per Sq. Ft.
Avalon Irvine II Irvine, CA 179 160,844 2013 899 94.4 % 94.6 % 94.6 % 2,155 2.40 45,264 Eaves Lake Forest Lake Forest, CA 225 215,319 1975/2011 957 94.2 % 95.1 % 94.8 % 1,730 1.81 28,464 Eaves Seal Beach Seal Beach, CA 549 388,254 1971/2013 707 95.2 % 95.9 % 95.8 % 1,977 2.80 151,537 San Diego, CA Eaves Mission Ridge San Diego, CA 200 207,700 1960/1997 1,039 97.0 % 95.4 % 96.0 % 1,970 1.90 24,991 AVA Cortez Hill (5) San Diego, CA 299 230,395 1973/1998 771 94.6 % 95.4 % 95.6 % 1,878 2.44 46,399 Avalon Fashion Valley San Diego, CA 161 183,802 2008 1,142 94.4 % 95.2 % 95.3 % 2,309 2.02 64,998 Eaves San Marcos San Marcos, CA 184 161,352 1988/2011 877 94.5 % 95.5 % 96.6 % 1,775 2.02 17,644 Eaves Rancho Penasquitos San Diego, CA 250 191,256 1986/2011 765 95.2 % 95.1 % 95.4 % 1,692 2.21 35,862 Eaves La Mesa La Mesa, CA 168 139,428 1989/2013 830 95.2 % 95.6 % 95.5 % 1,698 2.05 39,326 OTHER STABILIZED Eaves Dublin (7) Dublin, CA 204 179,004 1989/1997 877 93.1 % 95.6 % 96.0 % 2,272 2.59 37,228 AVA Burbank (7) Burbank, CA 748 530,160 1961/1997 709 94.9 % 96.2 % 96.0 % 1,890 2.67 98,752 AVA Pacific Beach (7) San Diego, CA 564 402,285 1969/1997 713 94.1 % 93.8 % 95.7 % 1,840 2.58 90,609 Eaves Creekside (7) Mountain View, CA 296 216,076 1962/1997 730 96.6 % 95.6 % 95.2 % 2,581 3.54 54,119 AVA Pasadena (7) Pasadena, CA 84 70,648 1973/2012 841 94.0 % 95.8 % 94.1 % 2,288 2.72 25,461 AVA 55 Ninth (8) San Francisco, CA 273 236,907 2014 868 93.4 % 95.5 % 56.3 % 3,831 4.41 118,613 Avalon Morrison Park (8) San Jose, CA 250 277,710 2014 1,111 97.6 % 96.0 % 66.8 % 3,040 2.74 78,364 Avalon San Dimas (8) San Dimas, CA 156 159,937 2014 1,025 94.9 % 96.8 % 47.7 % 1,835 1.79 39,849 Avalon Mission Oaks (9) Camarillo, CA 160 157,120 2014 982 96.3 % 95.8 % 100.0 % 1,967 2.00 47,029 Toluca Hills Apartments by Avalon (11) Los Angeles, CA 1,151 797,851 1973/2013 693 N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A 257,877 Avalon Berkeley (8) Berkeley, CA 94 78,858 2014 839 94.7 % 95.6 % 66.3 % 2,773 3.31 32,930 Eaves West Valley II San Jose, CA 84 71,136 2013 847 94.0 % 95.4 % 93.1 % 2,674 3.16 18,412 Avalon Studio City (7) Studio City, CA 450 331,324 1987/2013 736 94.6 % 96.3 % 96.5 % 1,950 2.65 113,210 Eaves Trumbull Trumbull, CT 340 379,382 1997 1,116 96.8 % 96.2 % 95.6 % 1,815 1.63 39,528 Avalon Shelton III Shelton, CT 250 249,190 2013 997 94.4 % 96.0 % 94.5 % 1,864 1.87 48,018 Avalon East Norwalk Norwalk, CT 240 223,698 2013 932 95.0 % 97.0 % 94.5 % 2,075 2.23 46,641 Avalon at Stratford (8) Stratford, CT 130 148,136 2014 1,140 93.0 % 96.1 % 48.6 % 1,810 1.59 29,673 Avalon Oaks Wilmington, MA 204 229,932 1999 1,127 93.6 % 94.5 % 92.4 % 1,771 1.57 24,696 Avalon Natick Natick, MA 407 362,702 2013 891 95.6 % 96.0 % 96.5 % 2,081 2.33 80,490 Avalon at Assembly Row (5)(8) Somerville, MA 195 181,910 2015 933 97.9 % 97.1 % 44.7 % 2,679 2.87 55,936 Eaves Burlington (7) Burlington, MA 203 198,230 1988/2012 977 95.6 % 96.7 % 95.9 % 1,718 1.76 45,426 Avalon Canton at Blue Hills (8) Canton, MA 196 235,465 2014 1,201 94.9 % 95.5 % 58.8 % 1,954 1.63 40,557 Avalon Burlington Burlington, MA 312 315,515 1989/2013 1,011 94.2 % 95.5 % 93.2 % 1,886 1.87 88,841 Avalon at Edgewater (10) Edgewater, NJ 168 175,562 2002 1,045 94.6 % 92.9 % 96.4 % 2,342 2.24 40,434 Avalon Somerset Somerset, NJ 384 390,365 2013 1,017 95.6 % 95.3 % 95.5 % 2,043 2.01 76,584 Avalon Bloomingdale (8) Bloomingdale, NJ 174 176,542 2014 1,015 98.3 % 95.2 % 90.8 % 2,114 2.08 30,806 Avalon Green (7) Elmsford, NY 105 113,538 1995 1,081 91.4 % 94.1 % 95.2 % 2,631 2.43 19,296 27 Table of Contents Approx.
rentable area (Sq. Ft.) Year of completion/ acquisition Average size (Sq. Ft.) Physical occupancy at 12/31/15 Average economic occupancy Average rental rate Financial reporting cost (3) City and state Number of homes 2015 2014 $ per Apt (2) $ per Sq. Ft.
AVA High Line (5)(8) New York, NY 405 271,324 2015 670 94.8 % 96.2 % 59.9 % 2,991 4.46 155,989 Avalon Ossining (8) Ossining, NY 168 184,137 2014 1,096 96.4 % 95.3 % 61.5 % 2,540 2.32 36,687 Archstone Lexington Flower Mound, TX 222 218,309 2000/2013 983 91.9 % 94.3 % 95.9 % 1,427 1.45 32,349 Archstone Toscano (8) Houston, TX 474 460,983 2014 973 92.8 % 95.2 % 72.1 % 1,710 1.76 87,972 Memorial Heights Villages (8) Houston, TX 318 305,262 2014 960 83.2 % 88.0 % 35.4 % 1,762 1.84 52,543 Avalon Tysons Corner (7) Tysons Corner, VA 558 613,426 1996 1,099 93.4 % 95.5 % 94.4 % 2,105 1.91 69,733 Avalon Arlington North (8) Arlington, VA 228 268,499 2014 1,178 94.7 % 95.8 % 55.3 % 2,919 2.48 80,677 Oakwood Arlington (11) Arlington, VA 184 154,376 1987/2013 839 N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A 59,551 AVA University District (8) Seattle, WA 283 201,389 2014 712 89.7 % 91.1 % 67.3 % 2,262 3.18 73,660 LEASE-UP Avalon Exeter (5)(8) Boston, MA 187 200,641 2014 1,073 94.6 % 91.4 % 28.0 % 5,531 5.15 126,504 AVA Somerville (5)(8) Somerville, MA 250 200,207 2015 801 96.8 % 82.1 % 7.9 % 2,436 3.04 71,712 AVA Theater District (8) Boston, MA 398 324,982 2015 817 56.9 % 22.2 % N/A 3,851 4.72 177,181 Avalon Marlborough (8) Marlborough, MA 350 417,647 2015 1,193 82.2 % 43.8 % N/A 2,054 1.72 74,391 Avalon Framingham (8) Framingham, MA 180 211,095 2015 1,173 62.0 % 34.5 % N/A 2,259 1.93 43,307 Avalon Huntington Station (8) Huntington Station, NY 303 364,602 2014 1,203 95.4 % 97.2 % 40.9 % 2,489 2.07 80,498 Avalon Wharton (8) Wharton, NJ 247 245,531 2015 994 97.6 % 84.5 % 18.3 % 2,008 2.02 50,777 Avalon Bloomfield Station (8) Bloomfield, NJ 224 211,102 2015 942 98.2 % 45.8 % N/A 2,384 2.53 50,592 Avalon Roseland (8) Roseland, NJ 136 192,530 2015 1,416 93.3 % 61.5 % N/A 2,940 2.08 45,769 Avalon West Chelsea (5)(8) New York, NY 305 226,556 2015 743 96.4 % 91.3 % 26.7 % 3,837 5.17 119,361 Avalon Mosaic (8) Fairfax, VA 531 458,198 2014 863 92.8 % 94.2 % 52.0 % 2,050 2.38 109,211 Avalon Alderwood I (8) Lynnwood, WA 367 352,238 2015 960 93.2 % 90.3 % 30.1 % 1,629 1.70 67,717 Avalon Dublin Station (8) Dublin, CA 253 247,430 2014 978 95.7 % 91.1 % 63.8 % 2,576 2.63 78,674 Avalon Hayes Valley (8) San Francisco, CA 182 135,082 2015 742 97.2 % 58.4 % N/A 4,353 5.87 92,394 Avalon Vista (8) Vista, CA 221 222,814 2015 1,008 92.2 % 50.2 % N/A 2,005 1.99 55,347 Avalon Baker Ranch (8) Lake Forest, CA 430 425,497 2015 990 96.7 % 54.5 % 5.7 % 2,251 2.27 129,106 AVA Little Tokyo (8) Los Angeles, CA 280 285,220 2015 1,019 93.9 % 83.6 % 18.9 % 2,751 2.70 108,426 REDEVELOPMENT Avalon Silicon Valley (7) Sunnyvale, CA 710 653,929 1998 921 95.6 % 94.8 % 96.0 % 2,795 3.03 131,449 Avalon Santa Monica on Main (7) Santa Monica, CA 133 122,460 2007/2013 921 89.9 % 93.8 % 95.9 % 4,341 4.71 103,770 Avalon La Jolla Colony (7) San Diego, CA 180 137,036 1987/2013 761 92.7 % 95.2 % 96.6 % 1,849 2.43 48,141 Avalon Walnut Ridge I (7) Walnut Creek, CA 106 80,942 2000/2013 764 94.3 % 95.9 % 96.9 % 2,181 2.86 32,259 Avalon Pasadena (7) Pasadena, CA 120 102,516 2004/2013 854 94.1 % 96.2 % 96.1 % 2,537 2.97 44,517 AVA Back Bay (7) Boston, MA 271 246,830 1968/1998 911 95.8 % 94.1 % 93.2 % 3,510 3.85 85,080 Avalon Bear Hill (7) Waltham, MA 324 391,394 1999/2013 1,208 90.3 % 93.5 % 94.2 % 2,631 2.18 142,358 Avalon Towers (7) Long Beach, NY 109 124,611 1990/1995 1,143 91.7 % 93.5 % 96.5 % 4,000 3.50 35,218 Avalon at Arlington Square (7) Arlington, VA 842 896,262 2001 1,064 94.5 % 93.5 % 95.3 % 2,098 1.97 130,407 28 Table of Contents Approx.
rentable area (Sq. Ft.) Year of completion/ acquisition Average size (Sq. Ft.) Physical occupancy at 12/31/15 Average economic occupancy Average rental rate Financial reporting cost (3) City and state Number of homes 2015 2014 $ per Apt (2) $ per Sq. Ft.
DEVELOPMENT Avalon Glendora (8) Glendora, CA 280 266,226 N/A 951 53.0 % 20.4 % N/A N/A N/A 82,068 Avalon Irvine III (8) Irvine, CA 156 151,363 N/A 970 N/A 1.6 % N/A N/A N/A 52,308 Avalon Dublin Station II (8) Dublin, CA 252 243,809 N/A 967 8.8 % 4.3 % N/A N/A N/A 80,745 Avalon West Hollywood (8) West Hollywood, CA 294 290,701 N/A 989 N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A 93,676 Avalon Chino Hills (8) Chino Hills, CA 331 327,890 N/A 991 N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A 24,639 Avalon Dogpatch (8) San Francisco, CA 326 262,927 N/A 807 N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A 62,306 Avalon Huntington Beach (8) Huntington Beach, CA 378 322,073 N/A 852 N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A 88,629 AVA NoMa (8) Washington, DC 438 367,192 N/A 838 N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A 47,794 Avalon North Station (8) Boston, MA 503 403,610 N/A 802 N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A 142,911 Avalon Quincy (8) Quincy, MA 395 371,688 N/A 941 N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A 34,498 AVA Wheaton (8) Wheaton, MD 319 267,096 N/A 837 N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A 18,295 Avalon Hunt Valley (8) Hunt Valley, MD 332 319,791 N/A 963 N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A 29,230 Avalon Laurel (8) Laurel, MD 344 374,145 N/A 1,088 N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A 31,008 Avalon Princeton (8) Princeton, NJ 280 287,078 N/A 1,025 N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A 50,071 Avalon Union (8) Union, NJ 202 230,418 N/A 1,141 12.4 % 5.7 % N/A N/A N/A 39,461 Avalon Maplewood (8) Maplewood, NJ 235 209,560 N/A 892 N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A 19,180 Avalon Willoughby Square/AVA DoBro (8) Brooklyn, NY 826 606,671 N/A 734 6.9 % 6.3 % N/A N/A N/A 408,947 Avalon Green III (8) Elmsford, NY 68 77,722 N/A 1,143 22.1 % 14.2 % N/A N/A N/A 21,149 Avalon Great Neck (8) Great Neck, NY 191 202,873 N/A 1,062 N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A 26,237 Avalon Sheepshead Bay (8) Brooklyn, NY 180 149,824 N/A 832 N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A 20,394 Avalon Rockville Centre II (8) Rockville Centre, NY 165 148,268 N/A 899 N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A 11,302 Avalon Falls Church (8) Falls Church, VA 384 396,536 N/A 1,033 66.5 % 31.0 % N/A N/A N/A 104,478 AVA Capitol Hill (8) Seattle, WA 249 175,286 N/A 704 18.1 % 6.5 % N/A N/A N/A 79,080 Avalon Esterra Park (8) Redmond, WA 482 440,848 N/A 915 N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A 84,428 Avalon Alderwood II (8) Redmond, WA 124 119,904 N/A 967 N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A 14,264 Avalon Newcastle I (8) Newcastle, WA 378 388,082 N/A 1,027 N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A 27,140 UNCONSOLIDATED COMMUNITIES Avalon at Mission Bay North II (12) San Francisco, CA 313 291,655 2006 932 96.2 % 95.6 % 96.1 % 4,214 4.52 N/A Eaves Tustin (13) Tustin, CA 628 511,992 1972/2010 815 96.3 % 96.1 % 96.3 % 1,646 2.02 N/A Eaves Rancho San Diego (13)(16) El Cajon, CA 676 587,500 1986/2011 869 93.0 % 95.6 % 95.9 % 1,638 1.88 N/A Briarwood Apartments (13) Owings Mills, MD 348 340,868 1999/2010 980 96.5 % 96.0 % 96.6 % 1,365 1.39 N/A Eaves Gaithersburg (13) Gaithersburg, MD 684 658,816 1974/2010 963 95.9 % 95.9 % 96.4 % 1,396 1.45 N/A Eaves Rockville (13) Rockville, MD 210 403,912 1970/2011 1,923 96.7 % 97.7 % 96.6 % 2,234 1.16 N/A Avalon Watchung (13) Watchung, NJ 334 336,586 2003/2012 1,008 94.6 % 95.5 % 96.2 % 2,092 2.08 N/A Avalon North Point (14) Cambridge, MA 426 383,537 2008/2013 900 95.5 % 95.8 % 92.0 % 3,345 3.72 N/A Avalon Station 250 (15) Dedham, MA 285 305,862 2011/2013 1,073 90.9 % 94.7 % 94.7 % 2,206 2.06 N/A Avalon North Point Lofts (8)(14) Cambridge, MA 103 46,506 2014 452 95.1 % 95.7 % 33.9 % 2,037 4.51 N/A Avalon Kips Bay (15)(16) New York, NY 209 152,865 1998/2013 731 95.7 % 96.0 % 95.4 % 4,837 6.61 N/A 29 Table of Contents Approx.
rentable area (Sq. Ft.) Year of completion/ acquisition Average size (Sq. Ft.) Physical occupancy at 12/31/15 Average economic occupancy Average rental rate Financial reporting cost (3) City and state Number of homes 2015 2014 $ per Apt (2) $ per Sq. Ft.
Brandywine (12) Washington, DC 305 308,050 1954/2013 1,010 N/A 95.8 % 92.4 % 2,419 2.39 N/A Avalon Woodland Park (14) Herndon, VA 392 393,112 2000/2013 1,003 96.9 % 95.7 % 95.6 % 1,703 1.70 N/A Avalon Grosvenor Tower (15) North Bethesda, MD 237 230,439 1987/2013 972 96.6 % 95.9 % 94.6 % 2,038 2.10 N/A Eaves Sunnyvale (15) Sunnyvale, CA 192 204,060 1991/2013 1,063 95.3 % 95.8 % 96.7 % 2,986 2.81 N/A Archstone Boca Town Center (15)(16) Boca Raton, FL 252 268,200 1988/2013 1,064 96.8 % 97.0 % 94.5 % 1,645 1.55 N/A Avalon Kirkland at Carillon (15) Kirkland, WA 131 176,160 1990/2013 1,345 92.2 % 94.1 % 94.4 % 2,630 1.96 N/A Avalon Studio 4041 (15) Studio City, CA 149 120,354 2009/2013 808 90.6 % 94.7 % 96.0 % 2,366 2.93 N/A Avalon Marina Bay (5)(15) Marina del Rey, CA 205 177,945 1968/2013 868 95.1 % 95.4 % 80.3 % 3,070 3.54 N/A Avalon Venice on Rose (15) Venice, CA 70 84,508 2012/2013 1,207 92.9 % 93.7 % 95.6 % 5,005 4.15 N/A ____________________________ 1.
We own a fee simple interest in the communities listed, excepted as noted below.
2.
Represents the average per occupied apartment home.
3.
Dollars in thousands. Costs are presented in accordance with GAAP. For current Development Communities, cost represents total costs incurred through December31, 2015 without reduction for deprecation. Financial reporting costs are excluded for unconsolidated communities, see Note5, "Investments in Real Estate Entities." 4.
We own a general partnership interest in a partnership structured as a DownREIT that owns this community.
5.
Community is located on land subject to a land lease.
6.
We own a general partnership interest in a partnership that owns a fee simple interest in this community.
7.
Community was under redevelopment during 2015 and/or 2014, which could result in lower average economic occupancy and average rental rate per square foot for the year.
8.
Community was under construction or completed development during 2015 and/or 2014, which could result in lower average economic occupancy and average rental rate per square foot for the year.
9.
Community was purchased during 2014, which could result in lower average economic occupancy and average rental rate per square foot for the year.
10.
Does not include the 240 apartment homes which were destroyed as a result of the fire at Avalon at Edgewater in January 2015. The financial reporting cost includes the basis for the land parcel which held the apartment homes which were destroyed, and is net of the recognized impairment to write-off the net book value of the fixed assets destroyed by the fire.
11.
During 2015, the community was master leased to a third party manager.
12.
We own a membership interest in a limited liability company that holds a fee simple interest in this community.
13.
We own a 31.3% combined general partnership and indirect limited partner equity interest in this community.
14.
We own a 20.0% combined general partnership and indirect limited partner equity interest in this community.
15.
We own a 28.6% combined general partnership and indirect limited partner equity interest in this community.
16.
The venture sold this community in 2016.
30 Table of Contents Development Communities As of December31, 2015 , we had 26 Development Communities under construction. We expect these Development Communities, when completed, to add a total of 8,112 apartment homes to our portfolio for a total capitalized cost, including land acquisition costs, of approximately $2,884,800,000 . We cannot assure you that we will meet our schedule for construction completion or that we will meet our budgeted costs, either individually, or in the aggregate. You should carefully review Item1A. "Risk Factors" for a discussion of the risks associated with development activity and our discussion under Item7. "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" (including the factors identified under "Forward-Looking Statements") for further discussion of development activity.
The following table presents a summary of the Development Communities. We hold a direct or indirect fee simple ownership interest in these communities, unless otherwise noted in the table.
31 Table of Contents Numberof apartment homes Projectedtotal capitalizedcost(1) ($millions) Construction start Initial projected occupancy(2) Estimated completion Estimated stabilization(3) 1.
Avalon Falls Church Falls Church, VA 384 $ 109.8 Q1 2014 Q1 2015 Q1 2016 Q3 2016 2.
Avalon Glendora Glendora, CA 280 82.5 Q4 2013 Q2 2015 Q1 2016 Q3 2016 3.
Avalon Green III Elmsford, NY 68 22.1 Q4 2014 Q3 2015 Q1 2016 Q3 2016 4.
Avalon Willoughby Square/AVA DoBro Brooklyn, NY 826 444.9 Q3 2013 Q4 2015 Q4 2016 Q3 2017 5.
AVA Capitol Hill Seattle, WA 249 81.4 Q1 2014 Q4 2015 Q2 2016 Q4 2016 6.
Avalon Dublin Station II Dublin, CA 252 83.7 Q2 2014 Q4 2015 Q3 2016 Q4 2016 7.
Avalon Union Union, NJ 202 50.7 Q4 2014 Q4 2015 Q2 2016 Q4 2016 8.
Avalon Irvine III Irvine, CA 156 55.0 Q2 2014 Q1 2016 Q2 2016 Q4 2016 9.
Avalon Huntington Beach Huntington Beach, CA 378 120.3 Q2 2014 Q1 2016 Q2 2017 Q4 2017 10.
Avalon West Hollywood West Hollywood, CA 294 151.7 Q2 2014 Q4 2016 Q3 2017 Q2 2018 11.
Avalon Esterra Park Redmond, WA 482 137.8 Q3 2014 Q1 2016 Q2 2017 Q4 2017 12.
Avalon North Station Boston, MA 503 257.9 Q3 2014 Q4 2016 Q4 2017 Q2 2018 13.
Avalon Princeton Princeton, NJ 280 95.5 Q4 2014 Q3 2016 Q2 2017 Q4 2017 14.
Avalon Alderwood II Lynnwood, WA 124 26.1 Q1 2015 Q2 2016 Q3 2016 Q4 2016 15.
Avalon Hunt Valley Hunt Valley, MD 332 74.0 Q1 2015 Q3 2016 Q2 2017 Q4 2017 16.
Avalon Laurel Laurel, MD 344 72.4 Q2 2015 Q1 2016 Q1 2017 Q3 2017 17 Avalon Quincy Quincy, MA 395 95.3 Q2 2015 Q3 2016 Q2 2017 Q4 2017 18.
Avalon Great Neck Great Neck, NY 191 78.9 Q2 2015 Q1 2017 Q2 2017 Q4 2017 19.
AVA NoMa Washington, D.C.
438 148.3 Q2 2015 Q2 2017 Q1 2018 Q3 2018 20.
Avalon Newcastle I Newcastle, WA 378 110.1 Q3 2015 Q4 2016 Q4 2017 Q2 2018 21.
Avalon Chino Hills Chino Hills, CA 331 96.9 Q3 2015 Q1 2017 Q4 2017 Q2 2018 22.
Avalon Sheepshead Bay (4) Brooklyn, NY 180 86.4 Q3 2015 Q3 2017 Q4 2017 Q2 2018 23.
Avalon Maplewood Maplewood, NJ 235 66.3 Q4 2015 Q3 2017 Q1 2018 Q3 2018 24.
Avalon Rockville Centre II Rockville Centre, NY 165 57.8 Q4 2015 Q3 2017 Q4 2017 Q2 2018 25.
AVA Wheaton Wheaton, MD 319 75.6 Q4 2015 Q2 2017 Q1 2018 Q3 2018 26.
Avalon Dogpatch San Francisco, CA 326 203.4 Q4 2015 Q4 2017 Q3 2018 Q1 2019 Total 8,112 $ 2,884.8 _________________________________ (1) Projected total capitalized cost includes all capitalized costs projected to be or actually incurred to develop the respective Development Community, determined in accordance with GAAP, including land acquisition costs, construction costs, real estate taxes, capitalized interest and loan fees, permits, professional fees, allocated development overhead and other regulatory fees. Projected total capitalized cost for communities identified as having joint venture ownership, either during construction or upon construction completion, represents the total projected joint venture contribution amount.
(2) Future initial occupancy dates are estimates. There can be no assurance that we will pursue to completion any or all of these proposed developments.
32 Table of Contents (3) Stabilized operations is defined as the earlier of (i)attainment of 95% or greater physical occupancy or (ii)the one -year anniversary of completion of development.
(4) We are developing this project with a private development partner. We will own the rental portion of the development on floors 3 through 19 and the partner will own the for-sale condominium portion on floors 20 through 30 of the development. The information above represents only our portion of the project. We are providing a construction loan to the development partner, expected to be $48,800,000 which together with the partner'scontributed equity is expected to fund the condominium portion of the project. A more detailed description of Avalon Sheepshead Bay can be found in Note5, "Investments in Real Estate Entities," of the Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in Item8 of this report.
During the year ended December31, 2015 , the Company completed the development of the following communities: Numberof apartment homes Total capitalized cost(1) ($millions) Approximate rentable area (sq. ft.) Total capitalized cost per sq. ft.
Quarter of completion 1.
Avalon West Chelsea/AVA High Line (2) (3) New York, NY 710 $ 271.9 497,880 $ 546 Q1 2015 2.
Avalon Alderwood I Lynnwood, WA 367 67.8 352,238 $ 192 Q1 2015 3.
AVA Little Tokyo (2) Los Angeles, CA 280 112.4 285,220 $ 394 Q1 2015 4.
Avalon Assembly Row/AVA Somerville (3) Somerville, MA 445 129.0 382,117 $ 338 Q2 2015 5.
Avalon Wharton Wharton, NJ 247 51.1 245,531 $ 208 Q2 2015 6.
Avalon Hayes Valley San Francisco, CA 182 95.4 135,082 $ 706 Q2 2015 7.
Avalon Vista Vista, CA 221 56.7 222,814 $ 254 Q3 2015 8.
Avalon Roseland Roseland, NJ 136 46.3 192,641 $ 240 Q3 2015 9.
Avalon Baker Ranch Lake Forest, CA 430 130.2 425,497 $ 306 Q4 2015 10.
Avalon Marlborough Marlborough, MA 350 75.6 417,647 $ 181 Q4 2015 11.
AVA Theater District Boston, MA 398 181.4 324,982 $ 558 Q4 2015 12.
Avalon Bloomfield Station Bloomfield, NJ 224 51.0 211,156 $ 242 Q4 2015 13.
Avalon Framingham Framingham, MA 180 43.9 211,095 $ 208 Q4 2015 Total 4,170 $ 1,312.7 ____________________________________ (1) Total capitalized cost is as of December31, 2015 .  The Company generally anticipates incurring additional costs associated with these communities that are customary for new developments.
(2) Development contains at least 10,000 square feet of retail space.
(3) Upon completion of construction we considered each phase of these dual-branded developments as separate operating communities, both of which we own subject to a single land lease.
Redevelopment Communities As of December31, 2015 , there were nine communities under redevelopment. We expect the total capitalized cost to redevelop these communities to be $122,000,000 , excluding costs incurred prior to redevelopment. We have found that the cost to redevelop an existing apartment community is more difficult to budget and estimate than the cost to develop a new community. Accordingly, we expect that actual costs may vary from our budget by a wider range than for a new development community. We cannot assure you that we will meet our schedule for reconstruction completion or for attaining restabilized operations, or that we will meet our budgeted costs, either individually or in the aggregate. We anticipate maintaining or increasing our current level of redevelopment activity related to communities in our current operating portfolio. You should carefully review Item1A. "Risk Factors" for a discussion of the risks associated with redevelopment activity.
33 Table of Contents The following presents a summary of these Redevelopment Communities: Numberof apartment homes Projectedtotal capitalizedcost(1) ($millions) Reconstruction start Estimated reconstruction completion Estimated restabilized operations(2) 1.
Avalon Towers Long Beach, NY 109 $ 10.2 Q4 2014 Q2 2016 Q4 2016 2.
Avalon at Arlington Square Arlington, VA 842 21.3 Q4 2014 Q1 2016 Q3 2017 3.
Avalon Bear Hill Waltham, MA 324 21.4 Q2 2015 Q3 2016 Q1 2017 4.
Avalon Santa Monica on Main Santa Monica, CA 133 10.0 Q4 2014 Q1 2016 Q3 2016 5.
Avalon Silicon Valley Sunnyvale, CA 710 29.9 Q4 2014 Q1 2017 Q3 2017 6.
AVA Back Bay Boston, MA 271 8.8 Q3 2015 Q1 2017 Q3 2017 7.
Avalon La Jolla Colony San Diego, CA 180 10.2 Q3 2015 Q3 2016 Q1 2017 8.
Avalon Walnut Ridge I Walnut Creek, CA 106 5.0 Q3 2015 Q2 2016 Q4 2016 9.
Avalon Pasadena Pasadena, CA 120 5.2 Q4 2015 Q3 2016 Q1 2017 Total 2,795 $ 122.0 ____________________________________ (1) Projected total capitalized cost does not include capitalized costs incurred prior to redevelopment.
(2) Restabilized operations is defined as the earlier of (i)attainment of 95% or greater physical occupancy or (ii)the one-year anniversary of completion of redevelopment.
Development Rights At December31, 2015 , we had $484,377,000 in acquisition and related capitalized costs for direct interests in land parcels we own, and $37,577,000 in capitalized costs (including legal fees, design fees and related overhead costs) related to Development Rights for which we control the land parcel, typically through a conditional agreement or option to purchase or lease the land. Collectively, the land held for development and associated costs for deferred development rights relate to 32 Development Rights for which we expect to develop new apartment communities in the future. The cumulative capitalized costs for land held for development as of December31, 2015 includes $442,016,000 in original land acquisition costs. The original land acquisition cost per home, after consideration of planned sales of associated outparcels and other real estate, ranged from $16,000 per home in Massachusetts to $326,000 per home in New York . The Development Rights range from those beginning design and architectural planning to those that have completed site plans and drawings and can begin construction almost immediately. We estimate that the successful completion of all of these communities would ultimately add approximately 9,634 apartment homes to our portfolio. Substantially all of these apartment homes will offer features like those offered by the communities we currently own.
For 24 Development Rights, we control the land through a conditional agreement or option to purchase or lease the parcel. While we generally prefer to hold Development Rights through conditional agreements or options to acquire land, for the eight remaining Development Rights we either currently own the land, have an ownership interest in a joint venture that owns the land or have executed a long term land lease for the parcel of land on which a community would be built if we proceeded with development.
The properties comprising the Development Rights are in different stages of the due diligence and regulatory approval process. The decisions as to which of the Development Rights to invest in, if any, or to continue to pursue once an investment in a Development Right is made, are business judgments that we make after we perform financial, demographic and other analyses. In the event that we do not proceed with a Development Right, we generally would not recover any of the capitalized costs incurred in the pursuit of those communities, unless we were to recover amounts in connection with the sale of land; however, we cannot guarantee a recovery. Pre-development costs incurred in the pursuit of Development Rights, for which future development is not yet considered probable, are expensed as incurred. In addition, if the status of a Development Right changes, making future development no longer probable, any capitalized pre-development costs are charged to expense. During 2015 , we incurred a charge of approximately $3,016,000 for development pursuits that were not yet probable of future development at the time incurred, or for pursuits that we determined would not likely be developed.
You should carefully review Item1A. "Risk Factors," for a discussion of the risks associated with Development Rights.
34 Table of Contents The following presents a summary of these Development Rights: Market Number ofrights Estimated number ofhomes Projectedtotal capitalized cost ($millions)(1) New England 7 1,759 $ 575 Metro NY/NJ 12 3,673 1,295 Mid-Atlantic 4 1,305 352 Pacific Northwest 4 1,224 374 Northern California 4 978 481 Southern California 1 695 341 Total 32 9,634 $ 3,418 ____________________________________ (1) Projected total capitalized cost includes all capitalized costs incurred to date (if any) and projected to be incurred to develop the respective community, determined in accordance with GAAP, including land acquisition costs, construction costs, real estate taxes, capitalized interest and loan fees, permits, professional fees, allocated development overhead and other regulatory fees.
Land Acquisitions We select land for development and follow established procedures that we believe minimize both the cost and the risks of development. During 2015 we acquired direct and indirect interests in land parcels for eight Development Rights, as shown in the table below, for an aggregate investment of approximately $480,550,000 . For six of the eight parcels, construction has either started or is expected to start within the next 12 months.
Estimated number of apartment homes Projected total capitalized cost (1) ($ millions) Date acquired 1.
Avalon Newcastle I Newcastle, WA 378 $ 110.1 January 2015 2.
Avalon Newcastle II Newcastle, WA 272 73.7 January 2015 3.
Avalon Columbus Circle New York, NY 262 335.4 January 2015 4.
Avalon Dogpatch San Francisco, CA 326 203.4 February 2015 5.
Avalon Quincy Quincy, MA 395 95.3 March 2015 6.
Avalon Maplewood Maplewood, NJ 235 66.3 May 2015 7.
AVA Hollywood Los Angeles, CA 695 340.7 July 2015 8.
Avalon Sudbury West (2) Sudbury, MA 250 81.8 December 2015 Total 2,813 $ 1,306.7 ____________________________________ (1) Projected total capitalized cost includes all capitalized costs incurred to date (if any) and projected to be incurred to develop the respective community, determined in accordance with GAAP, including land and related acquisition costs, construction costs, real estate taxes, capitalized interest and loan fees, permits, professional fees, allocated development overhead and other regulatory fees, net of projected proceeds for any planned sales of associated outparcels and other real estate.
(2) We acquired an indirect interest in this land parcel through an unconsolidated joint venture.
35 Table of Contents Other Land and Real Estate Assets We own land parcels with a carrying value of approximately $28,968,000 , which we do not currently plan to develop. These parcels consist primarily of ancillary parcels acquired in connection with Development Rights that we had not planned to develop. We currently believe on the filing date of this report there is no need to record a charge for impairment for these parcels. However, we may be subject to the recognition of further charges for impairment in the event that there are indicators of such impairment and we determine that the carrying value of the assets is greater than the current fair value, less costs to dispose.
Disposition Activity Wesell assets when they do not meet our long-term investment strategy or when capital and real estate markets allow us to realize a portion of the value created over the past business cycle and generally redeploy the proceeds from those sales to develop, redevelop and acquire communities. Pending such redeployment, we will generally use the proceeds from the sale of these communities to reduce amounts outstanding under our Credit Facility or retain the cash proceeds on our balance sheet until it is redeployed into acquisition, development or redevelopment activity. On occasion, we will set aside the proceeds from the sale of communities into a cash escrow account to facilitate a tax deferred, like-kind exchange transaction. From January1, 2015 to January31, 2016 , we sold our interest in three wholly-owned communities, containing 851 apartment homes. The aggregate gross sales price for these assets was $265,500,000 .
Insurance and Risk of Uninsured Losses We carry commercial general liability insurance and property insurance with respect to all of our communities.  These policies, and other insurance policies we carry, have policy specifications, insured and self-insured limits and deductibles that we consider commercially reasonable.  There are, however, certain types of losses (such as losses arising from acts of war) that are not insured, in full or in part, because they are either uninsurable or the cost of insurance makes it, in managements view, economically impractical.  You should carefully review the discussion under Item 1A. Risk Factors of this Form 10-K for a discussion of risks associated with an uninsured property or liability loss.
Many of our West Coast communities are located in the general vicinity of active earthquake faults. Many of our communities are near, and thus susceptible to, the major fault lines in California, including the San Andreas Fault and the Hayward Fault.  We cannot assure you that an earthquake would not cause damage or losses greater than insured levels.  We have in place with respect to communities located in California and Washington, for any single occurrence and in the aggregate, $150,000,000 of coverage. Earthquake coverage outside of California and Washington is subject to a $175,000,000 limit for each occurrence and in the aggregate. In California the deductible for each occurrence is five percent of the insured value of each damaged building with a maximum of $25,000,000 per loss. Our earthquake insurance outside of California provides for a $100,000 deductible per occurrence except that the next $350,000 of loss per occurrence outside California will be treated as an additional self-insured retention until the total incurred self-insured retention exceeds $1,500,000. We self-insure a portion of our property insurance which includes the earthquake risks.
Through a wholly-owned captive insurance company, the Company is responsible for 12% of the losses for its property insurance coverage in excess of any applicable deductible up to the first $50,000,000 of loss, with amounts beyond that covered by third-party insurance.
Just as with office buildings, transportation systems and government buildings, there have been reports that apartment communities could become targets of terrorism. In December 2007, Congress passed the Terrorism Risk Insurance Program Reauthorization Act (TRIPRA) which is designed to make terrorism insurance available through a federal back-stop program. Congress reauthorized TRIPRA in January 2015 for six years. We have also purchased insurance for property damage due to terrorism up to $400,000,000 including insurance for certain terrorist acts, not covered under TRIPRA, such as domestic-based terrorism.  This insurance, often referred to as non-certified terrorism insurance, is subject to deductibles, limits and exclusions.  Our general liability policy provides terrorism coverage through TRIPRA (subject to deductibles and insured limits) for liability to third parties that result from terrorist acts at our communities.
An additional consideration for insurance coverage and potential uninsured losses is mold growth.  Mold growth may occur when excessive moisture accumulates in buildings or on building materials, particularly if the moisture problem remains undiscovered or is not addressed over a period of time.  If a significant mold problem arises at one of our communities, we could be required to undertake a costly remediation program to contain or remove the mold from the affected community and could be exposed to other liabilities.  For further discussion of the risks and the Companys related prevention and remediation activities, please refer to the discussion under Item 1A. Risk Factors - We may incur costs due to environmental contamination or non-compliance elsewhere in this report.  We cannot provide assurance that we will have coverage under our existing policies for property damage or liability to third parties arising as a result of exposure to mold or a claim of exposure to mold at one of our communities.
36 Table of Contents We also carry crime policies (also commonly referred to as a fidelity policy or employee dishonesty policy) that protect the Company, up to $30,000,000 per occurrence, from employee theft of money, securities or property.  This amount may not be sufficient to cover losses that may be in excess of the policy limits.
Edgewater Casualty Gain In January 2015, a fire occurred at the Companys Avalon at Edgewater apartment community located in Edgewater, New Jersey ("Edgewater"). Edgewater consisted of two residential buildings. One building, containing 240 apartment homes, was destroyed. The second building, containing 168 apartment homes, suffered minimal damage and has been repaired. In January 2016, the Company reached a final settlement with its property and casualty insurers regarding the property damage and lost income related to the Edgewater fire, resulting in aggregate insurance recoveries for these aspects of this matter, after self-insurance and deductibles, of $73,008,000.  The Company received $44,000,000 of these recoveries in 2015 and expects to receive the remaining $29,008,000 during the three months ending March 31, 2016, which will be recognized as casualty gain and business interruption insurance recovery.
To date, a number of lawsuits on behalf of former residents have been filed against us, including four purported class actions. Having incurred applicable deductibles, the Company currently believes that all of its remaining liability to third parties will be substantially covered by its insurance policies. However, the Company can give no assurances in this regard and continues to evaluate this matter.
ITEM 3.LEGAL PROCEEDINGS As discussed immediately above, in January 2015, a fire occurred at the Company's Avalon at Edgewater apartment community in Edgewater, NJ.
The Company believes that the fire was caused by sparks from a torch used during repairs being performed by a Company employee who was not a licensed plumber. The Company has since revised its maintenance policies to require that non-flame tools be used for plumbing repairs where possible or, where not possible inside the building envelope, that a qualified third party vendor perform the work in accordance with AvalonBay policies.
The Company is aware that third parties incurred significant property damage and are claiming other losses, such as relocation costs, as a result of the fire. The Company has established protocols for processing claims and has encouraged any party who sustained a loss to contact the Companys insurance carrier to file a claim.  Through the date of this Form 10-K, of the 229 occupied apartments destroyed in the fire, the residents of approximately 76 units have settled claims with our insurer, and claims from an additional 44 units are being evaluated by our insurer.
To date, four putative class action lawsuits have been filed against the Company on behalf of Avalon at Edgewater residents and others who may have been harmed by the fire. The court has consolidated these actions in the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey.  In addition, 18 lawsuits representing approximately 145 individual plaintiffs have been filed in the Superior Court of New Jersey Bergen County - Law Division.  These cases have been consolidated by the court.   The Company believes that it has meritorious defenses to the extent of damages claimed.  Having incurred applicable deductibles, the Company currently believes that all of its remaining liability to third parties will be substantially covered by its insurance policies. However, the Company can give no assurances in this regard and continues to evaluate this matter The Company is involved in various other claims and/or administrative proceedings unrelated to the Edgewater fire that arise in the ordinary course of its business. While no assurances can be given, the Company does not currently believe that any of these other outstanding litigation matters, individually or in the aggregate, will have a material adverse effect on its financial condition or results of operations.
ITEM 4.MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES Not Applicable.
37 Table of Contents PART II ITEM 5.MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Our common stock is traded on the NYSE under the ticker symbol AVB. The following table sets forth the quarterly high and low sales prices per share of our common stock for the years 2015 and 2014 , as reported by the NYSE. On January29, 2016 there were 524 holders of record of an aggregate of 137,002,607 shares of our outstanding common stock. The number of holders does not include individuals or entities who beneficially own shares but whose shares are held of record by a broker or clearing agency, but does include each such broker or clearing agency as one record holder.
2015 2014 Sales Price Dividends declared Sales Price Dividends declared High Low High Low Quarter ended March31 $ 181.69 $ 163.81 $ 1.25 $ 132.17 $ 114.16 $ 1.16 Quarter ended June30 $ 176.43 $ 158.72 $ 1.25 $ 144.51 $ 130.04 $ 1.16 Quarter ended September30 $ 180.24 $ 158.97 $ 1.25 $ 157.16 $ 139.27 $ 1.16 Quarter ended December31 $ 186.89 $ 168.83 $ 1.25 $ 170.14 $ 141.00 $ 1.16 At present, we expect to continue our policy of paying regular quarterly cash dividends. However, the form, timing and/or amount of dividend distributions will be declared at the discretion of the Board of Directors and will depend on actual cash from operations, our financial condition, capital requirements, the annual distribution requirements under the REIT provisions of the Internal Revenue Code and other factors as the Board of Directors may consider relevant. The Board of Directors may modify our dividend policy from time to time.
In February 2016 , we announced that our Board of Directors declared a dividend on our common stock for the first quarter of 2016 of $1.35 per share, a 8.0% increase over the previous quarterly dividend per share of $1.25 . The dividend will be payable on April15, 2016 to all common stockholders of record as of March31, 2016 .
Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Period (a) Total Number of Shares Purchased(1) (b) Average Price Paid per Share (c) Total Number of Shares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Plans or Programs (d) Maximum Dollar Amount that May Yet be Purchased Under the Plans or Programs (in thousands) (2) October 1 - October 31, 2015 92 $ 182.85  $ 200,000 November 1 - November 30, 2015 4,266 $ 180.91  $ 200,000 December 1 - December 31, 2015 932 $ 181.52  $ 200,000 _________________________________ (1) Reflects shares surrendered to the Company in connection with exercise of stock options as payment of exercise price, as well as for taxes associated with the vesting of restricted share grants.
(2) As disclosed in our Form10-Q for the quarter ended March31, 2008, represents amounts outstanding under the Company's $500,000,000 Stock Repurchase Program. There is no scheduled expiration date to this program.
Information regarding securities authorized for issuance under equity compensation plans is included in the section entitled "Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters" in this Form10-K.
38 Table of Contents ITEM 6.SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA The following table provides historical consolidated financial, operating and other data for the Company. You should read the table with our Consolidated Financial Statements and the Notes included in this report (dollars in thousands, except per share information).
For the year ended 12/31/15 12/31/14 12/31/13 12/31/12 12/31/11 Revenue: Rental and other income $ 1,846,081 $ 1,674,011 $ 1,451,419 $ 990,370 $ 890,431 Management, development and other fees 9,947 11,050 11,502 10,257 9,656 Total revenue 1,856,028 1,685,061 1,462,921 1,000,627 900,087 Expenses: Operating expenses, excluding property taxes 448,747 410,672 352,245 259,350 246,872 Property taxes 193,499 178,634 158,774 97,555 88,964 Interest expense, net 175,615 180,618 172,402 136,920 167,814 (Gain) loss on extinguishment of debt, net (26,736 ) 412 14,921 1,179 1,940 Loss on interest rate contract   51,000   Depreciation expense 477,923 442,682 560,215 243,680 226,728 General and administrative expense 42,396 41,425 39,573 34,101 29,371 Expensed acquisition, development and other pursuit costs, net of recoveries 6,822 (3,717 ) 45,050 11,350 2,967 Casualty (gain) loss and impairment loss, net (10,542 )   1,449 14,052 Total expenses 1,307,724 1,250,726 1,394,180 785,584 778,708 Equity in income (loss) of unconsolidated entities 70,018 148,766 (11,154 ) 20,914 5,120 Gain on sale of real estate 9,647 490 240 280 13,716 Gain on sale of communities 115,625 84,925    Gain on acquisition of unconsolidated entity    14,194  Income from continuing operations before taxes 743,594 668,516 57,827 250,431 140,215 Income tax expense 1,861 9,368    Income from continuing operations 741,733 659,148 57,827 250,431 140,215 Discontinued operations: Income from discontinued operations  310 16,713 26,820 20,065 Gain on sale of discontinued operations  37,869 278,231 146,311 281,090 Total discontinued operations  38,179 294,944 173,131 301,155 Net income 741,733 697,327 352,771 423,562 441,370 Net loss (income) attributable to noncontrolling interests 305 (13,760 ) 370 307 252 Net income attributable to common stockholders $ 742,038 $ 683,567 $ 353,141 $ 423,869 $ 441,622 Per Common Share and Share Information: Earnings per common sharebasic: Income from continuing operations attributable to common stockholders (net of dividends attributable to preferred stock) $ 5.54 $ 4.93 $ 0.46 $ 2.57 $ 1.55 Discontinued operations attributable to common stockholders  0.29 2.32 1.77 3.34 Net income attributable to common stockholders $ 5.54 $ 5.22 $ 2.78 $ 4.34 $ 4.89 Weighted average shares outstandingbasic (1) 133,565,711 130,586,718 126,855,754 97,416,401 89,922,465 Earnings per common sharediluted: Income from continuing operations attributable to common stockholders (net of dividends attributable to preferred stock) $ 5.51 $ 4.92 $ 0.46 $ 2.55 $ 1.55 Discontinued operations attributable to common stockholders  0.29 2.32 1.77 3.32 Net income attributable to common stockholders $ 5.51 $ 5.21 $ 2.78 $ 4.32 $ 4.87 Weighted average shares outstandingdiluted 134,593,177 131,237,502 127,265,903 98,025,152 90,777,462 Cash dividends declared $ 5.00 $ 4.64 $ 4.28 $ 3.88 $ 3.57 _________________________________ (1) Amounts do not include unvested restricted shares included in the calculation of Earnings per Share. Please refer to Note1, "Organization and Basis of PresentationEarnings per Common Share," of the Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in Item8 of this report for a discussion of the calculation of Earnings per Share.
39 Table of Contents For the year ended 12/31/15 12/31/14 12/31/13 12/31/12 12/31/11 Other Information: Net income attributable to common stockholders $ 742,038 $ 683,567 $ 353,141 $ 423,869 $ 441,622 Depreciationcontinuing operations 477,923 442,682 560,215 243,680 226,728 Depreciationdiscontinued operations   13,500 16,414 23,541 Interest expense, netcontinuing operations (1) 148,879 181,030 238,323 138,099 169,754 Interest expense, netdiscontinued operations (1)    735 8,688 Income tax expense 1,861 9,368    EBITDA (2) $ 1,370,701 $ 1,316,647 $ 1,165,179 $ 822,797 $ 870,333 Funds from Operations (3) $ 1,083,085 $ 951,035 $ 642,814 $ 521,047 $ 414,482 Core Funds from Operations (3) $ 1,016,035 $ 890,081 $ 792,888 $ 532,490 $ 420,763 Number of Current Communities (4) 259 251 244 180 181 Number of apartment homes 75,584 73,963 72,811 52,792 53,294 Balance Sheet Information: Real estate, before accumulated depreciation $ 19,268,099 $ 17,849,316 $ 16,800,321 $ 10,071,342 $ 9,288,496 Total assets (5) $ 16,931,305 $ 16,140,578 $ 15,292,922 $ 11,128,662 $ 8,453,547 Notes payable and unsecured credit facilities, net $ 6,456,948 $ 6,489,707 $ 6,110,083 $ 3,819,617 $ 3,603,454 Cash Flow Information: Net cash flows provided by operating activities $ 1,056,754 $ 886,641 $ 724,315 $ 540,819 $ 429,354 Net cash flows used in investing activities $ (1,199,517 ) $ (816,760 ) $ (1,181,174 ) $ (623,386 ) $ (443,141 ) Net cash flows (used in) provided by financing activities $ 33,810 $ 158,224 $ (1,995,404 ) $ 2,199,332 $ 326,233 _________________________________ (1) Interest expense, net includes any gain or loss incurred from the extinguishment of debt.
(2) EBITDA is defined as net income before interest income and expense, income taxes, depreciation and amortization from both continuing and discontinued operations. Under this definition, EBITDA includes gains on sale of assets and gain on sale of partnership interests. Management generally considers EBITDA to be an appropriate supplemental measure to net income of our operating performance because it helps investors to understand our ability to incur and service debt and to make capital expenditures. EBITDA should not be considered as an alternative to net income (as determined in accordance with GAAP), as an indicator of our operating performance, or to cash flows from operating activities (as determined in accordance with GAAP) as a measure of liquidity. Our calculation of EBITDA may not be comparable to EBITDA as calculated by other companies.
(3) Refer to "Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures" below.
(4) Current Communities consist of all communities other than those which are still under construction and for which a certificate or certificates of occupancy for the entire community have not been received.
(5) Amounts for 2011 through 2014 reflect the retrospective adjustment of the presentation of deferred financing costs discussed in Note 1, "Change in Accounting Principle." Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures We generally consider Funds from Operations, or "FFO," and FFO adjusted for non-core items, or "Core FFO," as defined below, to be appropriate supplemental measures of our operating and financial performance. By excluding gains or losses related to dispositions of previously depreciated property and excluding real estate depreciation, which can vary among owners of identical assets in similar condition based on historical cost accounting and useful life estimates, FFO can help one compare the operating performance of a real estate company between periods or as compared to different companies. By further adjusting for items that are not considered part of our core business operations, Core FFO allows one to compare the core operating performance of the Company year over year. We believe that in order to understand our operating results, FFO and Core FFO should be examined with net income as presented in the Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income included elsewhere in this report.
Consistent with the definition adopted by the Board of Governors of the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts ("NAREIT"), we calculate FFO as net income or loss computed in accordance with GAAP, adjusted for: 40 Table of Contents  gains or losses on sales of previously depreciated operating communities;  cumulative effect of change in accounting principle;  impairment write-downs of depreciable real estate assets;  write-downs of investments in affiliates due to a decrease in the value of depreciable real estate assets held by those affiliates;  depreciation of real estate assets; and  adjustments for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures.
We calculate Core FFO as FFO, adjusted for:  joint venture gains, costs, and promoted interests;  casualty (gain) loss and impairment loss, net;  early extinguishment of consolidated borrowings;  acquisition costs and abandoned pursuits;  business interruption insurance proceeds and legal settlements;  severance related costs; and  other non-core items.
FFO and Core FFO do not represent net income in accordance with GAAP, and therefore should not be considered an alternative to net income, which remains the primary measure, as an indication of our performance. In addition, FFO and Core FFO as calculated by other REITs may not be comparable to our calculations of FFO and Core FFO.
FFO  and Core FFO also do not represent cash generated from operating activities in accordance with GAAP, and therefore should not be considered an alternative to net cash flows from operating activities, as determined by GAAP, as a measure of liquidity. Additionally, it is not necessarily indicative of cash available to fund cash needs. A presentation of GAAP based cash flow metrics is provided in "Cash Flow Information" in the table on the previous page.
The following is a reconciliation of net income to FFO and to Core FFO (dollars in thousands, except per share data).
41 Table of Contents For the year ended 12/31/15 12/31/14 12/31/13 12/31/12 12/31/11 Net income attributable to common stockholders $ 742,038 $ 683,567 $ 353,141 $ 423,869 $ 441,622 Depreciationreal estate assets, including discontinued operations and joint venture adjustments 486,019 449,769 582,325 265,627 256,986 Distributions to noncontrolling interests, including discontinued operations 38 35 32 28 27 Gain on sale of unconsolidated entities holding previously depreciated real estate assets (33,580 ) (73,674 ) (14,453 ) (7,972 ) (3,063 ) Gain on sale of previously depreciated real estate assets (1) (115,625 ) (108,662 ) (278,231 ) (146,311 ) (281,090 ) Gain on acquisition of unconsolidated real estate entity    (14,194 )  Impairment due to casualty loss 4,195     FFO attributable to common stockholders $ 1,083,085 $ 951,035 $ 642,814 $ 521,047 $ 414,482 Weighted average shares outstandingdiluted 134,593,177 131,237,502 127,265,903 98,025,152 90,777,462 FFO per common sharediluted $ 8.05 $ 7.25 $ 5.05 $ 5.32 $ 4.57 FFO attributable to common stockholders $ 1,083,085 $ 951,035 $ 642,814 $ 521,047 $ 414,482 Joint venture (gains) and costs (2) (9,059 ) (5,194 ) 35,554 (940 ) 1,493 Casualty (gain) loss and impairment loss, net (3) (16,247 ) (2,494 ) (299 ) 3,321 14,052 Lost NOI from casualty losses (4) 7,862     Early extinguishment of consolidated borrowings (26,736 ) 412 14,921 2,070 5,820 Gain on sale of real estate (9,647 ) (490 ) (240 ) (280 ) (13,716 ) Joint venture promote (5) (21,969 ) (58,128 )  (4,055 )  Income taxes (6) 1,103 9,243    Loss on interest rate protection agreement   51,000   Development pursuits and other write-offs (7) 1,838 2,564 1,506   Acquisition costs (8) 3,806 (7,682 ) 44,052 9,965 1,010 Severance related costs 1,999 815 3,580 587 100 Legal settlements    775  Interest income on escrow     (2,478 ) Core FFO attributable to common stockholders $ 1,016,035 $ 890,081 $ 792,888 $ 532,490 $ 420,763 Core FFO per common sharediluted 7.55 6.78 6.23 5.43 4.64 _________________________________ (1) Amount for 2014 excludes a gain of $14,132, representing our joint venture partners' portion of the gain on sale from a Fund I community which we consolidated for financial reporting purposes.
(2) Amounts for 2014 and 2015 are primarily composed of the Company's proportionate share of gains and operating results for joint ventures formed with Equity Residential as part of the Archstone Acquisition. Amount for 2013 includes Archstone Acquisition related costs.
(3) Amount for 2015 is primarily composed of property damage and business interruption insurance proceeds, partially offset by costs from the fire at Edgewater. Amounts for 2013 and 2014 are composed of business interruption insurance proceeds. Amount for 2012 includes losses incurred related to Superstorm Sandy, and the write-off of certain costs related to a commercial tenant. Amount for 2011 relates to the impairment of unimproved land parcels.
(4) Amount for 2015 primarily relates to lost NOI resulting from the fire at Edgewater.
(5) Amount for 2015 is primarily composed of amounts received related to the modification of the joint venture agreement for the entity that owns Avalon at Mission Bay North II to eliminate our promoted interest in future distributions. Amount for 2014 relates to our promoted interests from the sale of Avalon Chrystie Place, and the amount for 2012 relates to our promoted interests from the acquisition of our joint venture partner's interest in Avalon Del Rey.
(6) Amounts for 2015 and 2014 are composed of income taxes on income that was earned in taxable REIT subsidiaries and that is not considered to be a component of primary operations.
(7) Composed of the write-off of capitalized pursuit costs for Development Rights as well as the write-off of certain retail tenant improvements at an operating community in 2014.
(8) Amount for 2014 is primarily composed of receipts related to communities acquired as part of the Archstone Acquisition for periods prior to the Companys ownership, which are primarily comprised of property tax and mortgage insurance refunds. Amounts for 2012 and 2013 primarily consist of costs related to the Archstone Acquisition.
42 Table of Contents ITEM 7.MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ("MD&A") is intended to help provide an understanding of our business, financial condition and results of operations. This MD&A should be read in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements and the accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this report. This report, including the following MD&A, contains forward-looking statements regarding future events or trends that should be read in conjunction with the factors described under "Forward-Looking Statements" included in this report. Actual results or developments could differ materially from those projected in such statements as a result of the factors described under "Forward-Looking Statements" as well as the risk factors described in Item1A. "Risk Factors" of this report.
Capitalized terms used without definition have the meanings provided elsewhere in this Form10-K.
Executive Overview Business Description We develop, redevelop, acquire, own and operate multifamily apartment communities primarily in New England, the New York/New Jersey metro area, the Mid-Atlantic, the Pacific Northwest, and Northern and Southern California. We focus on leading metropolitan areas that we believe are characterized by growing employment in high wage sectors of the economy, lower housing affordability and a diverse and vibrant quality of life. We believe these market characteristics offer the opportunity for superior risk-adjusted returns on apartment community investment relative to other markets. We seek to create long-term shareholder value by accessing capital on cost effective terms; deploying that capital to develop, redevelop and acquire apartment communities in our selected markets; operating apartment communities; and selling communities when they no longer meet our long-term investment strategy or when pricing is attractive.
Our strategic vision is to be the leading apartment company in select US markets, providing a range of distinctive living experiences that customers value. We pursue this vision by targeting what we believe are the best markets and submarkets, leveraging our strategic capabilities in market research and consumer insight and being disciplined in our capital allocation and balance sheet management. Our communities are predominately upscale and generally command among the highest rents in their markets. However, we also pursue the ownership and operation of apartment communities that target a variety of customer segments and price points, consistent with our goal of offering a broad range of products and services. We regularly evaluate the allocation of our investments by the amount of invested capital and by product type within our individual markets.
Financial Highlights For the year ended December31, 2015 , net income attributable to common stockholders was $742,038,000 , an increase of $58,471,000 , or 8.6% , over the prior year. The increase is primarily attributable to an increase in NOI from newly developed and existing operating communities, and gains from net insurance recoveries and the extinguishment of debt, partially offset by a decrease in equity in income of unconsolidated real estate entities For the year ended December31, 2015 , Established Communities NOI increased by $53,656,000 , or 5.8% , over the prior year. The increase was driven by an increase in rental revenue of 5.0% , partially offset by an increase in operating expenses of 3.0% over 2014 .
During 2015 , we raised approximately $1,823,743,000 of gross capital through the issuance of unsecured notes, settlement of the forward equity contract to sell 4,500,000 shares of common stock at a weighted average sales price of $146.54 per share, borrowing the final $50,000,000 available under the Term Loan and asset sales, exclusive of proceeds from the disposition of joint ventures. The funds raised from asset sales consist of the proceeds from the sale of three communities, two undeveloped land parcels and air rights, for gross sales proceeds of $289,320,000 . We believe that our current capital structure will continue to provide financial flexibility to access capital on attractive terms.
We believe our development activity will continue to create long-term value. During 2015 , we completed the development of 13 communities for an aggregate total capitalized cost of $1,312,700,000 . We also started the development of 13 communities, which are expected to be completed for an estimated total capitalized cost of $1,191,500,000 . In addition, during 2015 we completed the redevelopment of four communities for a total investment of $59,600,000 , excluding costs incurred prior to the redevelopment.
43 Table of Contents We believe that our balance sheet strength, as measured by our current level of indebtedness, our current ability to service interest and other fixed charges, and our current moderate use of financial encumbrances (such as secured financing) provide us with adequate access to liquidity from the capital markets. We expect to be able to meet our reasonably foreseeable liquidity needs, as they arise, through a combination of one or more of the following sources: existing cash on hand; operating cash flows; borrowings under our Credit Facility; secured debt; the issuance of corporate securities (which could include unsecured debt, preferred equity and/or common equity); the sale of apartment communities; or through the formation of joint ventures. See the discussion under Liquidity and Capital Resources.
During the year ended December31, 2015 , we sold three communities, containing an aggregate of 851 apartment homes for an aggregate gross sales price of $265,500,000 and an aggregate gain in accordance with GAAP of $115,625,000 . We also sold two undeveloped land parcels and air rights, representing the right to increase density for future residential development, for $23,820,000 , resulting in a gain in accordance with GAAP of $9,647,000 .
Communities Overview As of December31, 2015 we owned or held a direct or indirect ownership interest in 285 apartment communities containing 83,696 apartment homes in 11 states and the District of Columbia, of which 26 communities were under construction and nine communities were under reconstruction. Of these communities, 20 were owned by entities that were not consolidated for financial reporting purposes, including six owned by subsidiaries of Fund II and nine owned by the U.S. Fund. In addition, we owned a direct or indirect ownership interest in Development Rights to develop an additional 32 wholly-owned communities that, if developed as expected, will contain an estimated 9,634 apartment homes.
Our real estate investments consist primarily of current operating apartment communities, Development Communities and Development Rights. Our current operating communities are further distinguished as Established Communities, Other Stabilized Communities, Lease-Up Communities and Redevelopment Communities.
Established Communities are generally operating communities that are consolidated for financial reporting purposes and were owned and had stabilized occupancy and operating expenses as of the beginning of the prior year, which allows the performance of these communities to be compared between years. Other Stabilized Communities are generally all other consolidated operating communities that have stabilized occupancy and operating expenses during the current year, but had not achieved stabilization as of the beginning of the prior year. Lease-Up Communities consist of communities where construction is complete but stabilization has not been achieved. Redevelopment Communities consist of communities where substantial redevelopment is in progress or is planned to begin during the current year. A more detailed description of our reportable segments and other related operating information can be found in Note8, "Segment Reporting," of our Consolidated Financial Statements.
Although each of these categories is important to our business, we generally evaluate overall operating, industry and market trends based on the operating results of Established Communities, for which a detailed discussion can be found in "Results of Operations" as part of our discussion of overall operating results. We evaluate our current and future cash needs and future operating potential based on acquisition, disposition, development, redevelopment and financing activities within Other Stabilized, Redevelopment and Development Communities. Discussions related to current and future cash needs and financing activities can be found in "Liquidity and Capital Resources." NOI of our current operating communities is one of the financial measures that we use to evaluate community performance. NOI is affected by the demand and supply dynamics within our markets, our rental rates and occupancy levels and our ability to control operating costs. Our overall financial performance is also impacted by the general availability and cost of capital and the performance of newly developed, redeveloped and acquired apartment communities.
44 Table of Contents Results of Operations Our year-over-year operating performance is primarily affected by both overall and individual geographic market conditions and apartment fundamentals and is reflected in changes in NOI of our Established Communities; NOI derived from acquisitions and development completions; the loss of NOI related to disposed communities; and capital market and financing activity. A comparison of our operating results for 2015 , 2014 and 2013 follows (dollars in thousands): 2015 2014 $ Change % Change 2014 2013 $ Change % Change Revenue: Rental and other income $ 1,846,081 $ 1,674,011 $ 172,070 10.3 % $ 1,674,011 $ 1,451,419 $ 222,592 15.3 % Management, development and other fees 9,947 11,050 $ (1,103 ) (10.0 )% 11,050 11,502 (452 ) (3.9 )% Total revenue 1,856,028 1,685,061 170,967 10.1 % 1,685,061 1,462,921 222,140 15.2 % Expenses: Direct property operating expenses, excluding property taxes 377,317 345,846 31,471 9.1 % 345,846 295,150 50,696 17.2 % Property taxes 193,499 178,634 14,865 8.3 % 178,634 158,774 19,860 12.5 % Total community operating expenses 570,816 524,480 46,336 8.8 % 524,480 453,924 70,556 15.5 % Corporate-level property management and other indirect operating expenses 67,060 60,341 6,719 11.1 % 60,341 53,105 7,236 13.6 % Investments and investment management expense 4,370 4,485 (115 ) (2.6 )% 4,485 3,990 495 12.4 % Expensed acquisition, development and other pursuit costs, net of recoveries 6,822 (3,717 ) 10,539 N/A (1) (3,717 ) 45,050 (48,767 ) N/A (1) Interest expense, net 175,615 180,618 (5,003 ) (2.8 )% 180,618 172,402 8,216 4.8 % (Gain) loss on extinguishment of debt, net (26,736 ) 412 (27,148 ) N/A (1) 412 14,921 (14,509 ) (97.2 )% Loss on interest rate contract     %  51,000 (51,000 ) (100.0 )% Depreciation expense 477,923 442,682 35,241 8.0 % 442,682 560,215 (117,533 ) (21.0 )% General and administrative expense 42,396 41,425 971 2.3 % 41,425 39,573 1,852 4.7 % Casualty (gain) loss and impairment loss, net (10,542 )  (10,542 ) 100.0 %     % Total other expenses 736,908 726,246 10,662 1.5 % 726,246 940,256 (214,010 ) (22.8 )% Equity in income (loss) of unconsolidated entities 70,018 148,766 (78,748 ) (52.9 )% 148,766 (11,154 ) 159,920 N/A (1) Gain on sale of real estate 9,647 490 9,157 1,868.8 % 490 240 250 104.2 % Gain on sale of communities 115,625 84,925 30,700 36.1 % 84,925  84,925 100.0 % Income from continuing operations before taxes 743,594 668,516 75,078 11.2 % 668,516 57,827 610,689 1,056.1 % Income tax expense 1,861 9,368 (7,507 ) (80.1 )% 9,368  9,368 100.0 % Income from continuing operations 741,733 659,148 82,585 12.5 % 659,148 57,827 601,321 1,039.9 % Discontinued operations: Income from discontinued operations  310 (310 ) (100.0 )% 310 16,713 (16,403 ) (98.1 )% Gain on sale of discontinued operations  37,869 (37,869 ) (100.0 )% 37,869 278,231 (240,362 ) (86.4 )% Total discontinued operations  38,179 (38,179 ) (100.0 )% 38,179 294,944 (256,765 ) (87.1 )% Net income 741,733 697,327 44,406 6.4 % 697,327 352,771 344,556 97.7 % Net loss (income) attributable to noncontrolling interests 305 (13,760 ) 14,065 N/A (1) (13,760 ) 370 (14,130 ) N/A (1) Net income attributable to common stockholders $ 742,038 $ 683,567 $ 58,471 8.6 % $ 683,567 $ 353,141 $ 330,426 93.6 % _________________________________ (1) Percent change is not meaningful.
45 Table of Contents Net income attributable to common stockholders increased $58,471,000 , or 8.6% , to $742,038,000 in 2015 primarily due to an increase in NOI from newly developed and existing operating communities, and gains from net insurance recoveries and the extinguishment of debt, partially offset by a decrease in equity in income of unconsolidated real estate entities. Net income attributable to common stockholders increased $330,426,000 , or 93.6% , in 2014 from 2013 primarily due to an increase in income from unconsolidated real estate entities resulting from the gains on sales of communities in various ventures, including the Companys promoted interests, increased NOI from newly developed and acquired communities, losses on an interest rate contract in the prior year not present in 2014, a decrease in expensed acquisition costs related to the Archstone Acquisition and a decrease in depreciation expense related to in-place leases acquired as part of the Archstone Acquisition.
NOI is considered by management to be an important and appropriate supplemental performance measure to net income because it helps both investors and management to understand the core operations of a community or communities prior to the allocation of any corporate-level or financing-related costs.NOI reflects the operating performance of a community and allows for an easy comparison of the operating performance of individual assets or groups of assets. In addition, because prospective buyers of real estate have different financing and overhead structures, with varying marginal impacts to overhead as a result of acquiring real estate, NOI is considered by many in the real estate industry to be a useful measure for determining the value of a real estate asset or group of assets.We define NOI as total property revenue less direct property operating expenses, including property taxes, and excluding corporate-level income (including management, development and other fees), corporate-level property management and other indirect operating expenses, investments and investment management expenses, expensed acquisition, development and other pursuit costs, net interest expense, gain (loss) on extinguishment of debt, loss on interest rate contract, general and administrative expense, joint venture income (loss), depreciation expense, corporate income tax expense, casualty (gain) loss and impairment loss, net, gain on sale of real estate assets, gain on sale of discontinued operations, income from discontinued operations and net operating income from real estate assets sold or held for sale, not classified as discontinued operations.
NOI does not represent cash generated from operating activities in accordance with GAAP. Therefore, NOI should not be considered an alternative to net income as an indication of our performance. NOI should also not be considered an alternative to net cash flow from operating activities, as determined by GAAP, as a measure of liquidity, nor is NOI indicative of cash available to fund cash needs. Reconciliations of NOI for the years ended December31, 2015 , 2014 and 2013 to net income for each year are as follows (dollars in thousands): For the year ended 12/31/15 12/31/14 12/31/13 Net income $ 741,733 $ 697,327 $ 352,771 Indirect operating expenses, net of corporate income 56,973 49,055 41,554 Investments and investment management expense 4,370 4,485 3,990 Expensed acquisition, development and other pursuit costs, net of recoveries 6,822 (3,717 ) 45,050 Interest expense, net (1) 175,615 180,618 172,402 (Gain) loss on extinguishment of debt, net (26,736 ) 412 14,921 Loss on interest rate contract   51,000 General and administrative expense 42,396 41,425 39,573 Equity in (income) loss of unconsolidated real estate entities (70,018 ) (148,766 ) 11,154 Depreciation expense (1) 477,923 442,682 560,215 Income tax expense 1,861 9,368  Casualty (gain) loss and impairment loss, net (10,542 )   Gain on sale of real estate assets (125,272 ) (85,415 ) (240 ) Gain on sale of discontinued operations  (37,869 ) (278,231 ) Income from discontinued operations  (310 ) (16,713 ) Net operating income from real estate assets sold or held for sale, not classified as discontinued operations (10,920 ) (27,357 ) (31,388 ) Net operating income $ 1,264,205 $ 1,121,938 $ 966,058 _________________________________ (1) Includes amounts associated with assets sold or held for sale, not classified as discontinued operations.
The NOI increases for both 2015 and 2014 , as compared to the prior year, consist of changes in the following categories (dollars in thousands): 46 Table of Contents Full Year 2015 2014 Established Communities $ 53,656 $ 22,728 Other Stabilized Communities 28,129 74,322 Development and Redevelopment Communities 60,482 58,830 Total $ 142,267 $ 155,880 The increase in our Established Communities' NOI in 2015 and 2014 is due to increased rental rates, partially offset by decreased economic occupancy and increased operating expenses.
Rental and other income increased in both 2015 and 2014 compared to the prior years due to additional rental income generated from newly developed and existing operating communities and an increase in rental rates at our Established Communities.
Overall PortfolioThe weighted average number of occupied apartment homes for consolidated communities increased to 64,211 apartment homes for 2015 , as compared to 61,686 homes for 2014 and 57,240 homes for 2013 . The weighted average monthly revenue per occupied apartment home increased to $2,388 for 2015 as compared to $2,254 in 2014 and $2,171 in 2013 .
Established CommunitiesRental revenue increased $66,136,000 , or 5.0% , to $1,382,895,000 for 2015 from $1,316,759,000 in the prior year. The increase is due to an increase in average rental rates of 5.3% to $2,358 per apartment home, partially offset by a decrease in economic occupancy of 0.3% to 95.6% . Rental revenue increased $36,096,000 , or 3.9% , for 2014 , as compared to the prior year. Economic occupancy takes into account the fact that apartment homes of different sizes and locations within a community have different economic impacts on a community's gross revenue. Economic occupancy is defined as gross potential revenue less vacancy loss, as a percentage of gross potential revenue. Gross potential revenue is determined by valuing occupied homes at leased rates and vacant homes at market rents.
We experienced increases in rental revenue for all of our Established Communities' regions in 2015 as compared to the prior year, as discussed in more detail below.
The Metro New York/New Jersey region accounted for approximately 27.6% of the Established Community rental revenue for 2015 and experienced a rental revenue increase of 3.4% for 2015 over the prior year. Average rental rates increased 4.0% to $2,928 per apartment home, and were partially offset by a 0.6% decrease in economic occupancy to 95.6% for 2015 as compared to 2014 . While New York City is absorbing a larger pipeline of new apartment deliveries, suburban markets surrounding the city are more insulated from this new competition, and we expect to see continued growth over the prior year in the Metro New York/New Jersey region in 2016.
The Northern California region accounted for approximately 19.8% of the Established Community rental revenue for 2015 and experienced a rental revenue increase of 9.5% for 2015 over the prior year. Average rental rates increased 10.4% to $2,593 per apartment home, and were partially offset by a 0.9% decrease in economic occupancy to 95.4% for 2015 as compared to 2014 . Although we project job growth to moderate and new apartment deliveries to remain elevated, we expect the Northern California region will continue to produce strong revenue growth in 2016.
The Southern California region accounted for approximately 18.2% of the Established Community rental revenue for 2015 and experienced a rental revenue increase of 6.3% for 2015 over the prior year. Average rental rates increased 6.5% to $1,984 per apartment home, and were partially offset by a 0.2% decrease in economic occupancy to 95.8% for 2015 as compared to 2014 . Southern California has seen steady job growth and limited new apartment supply, which we expect will continue to support favorable operating results during 2016.
The Mid-Atlantic region accounted for approximately 15.1% of the Established Community rental revenue for 2015 and experienced a rental revenue increase of 0.8% for 2015 over the prior year. Average rental rates increased 0.5% to $2,070 per apartment home, and economic occupancy increased 0.3% to 95.6% for 2015 as compared to 2014 . Although new apartment supply will remain elevated, accelerating job growth is expected to support continued modest growth in 2016.
The New England region accounted for approximately 13.8% of the Established Community rental revenue for 2015 and experienced a rental revenue increase of 4.5% for 2015 over the prior year. Average rental rates increased 4.1% to $2,283 per apartment home, and economic occupancy increased 0.4% to 95.7% for 2015 as compared to 2014 . Stable job growth in the Boston metro area is expected to support healthy apartment demand in 2016. The Fairfield market continues to experience moderate economic growth due to the areas greater exposure to the financial services sector, which has experienced slower job growth during this recovery than other industries.
47 Table of Contents The Pacific Northwest region accounted for approximately 5.5% of the Established Community rental revenue for 2015 and experienced a rental revenue increase of 7.1% for 2015 over the prior year. Average rental rates increased 7.3% to $1,945 per apartment home, and were partially offset by a 0.2% decrease in economic occupancy to 95.1% for 2015 as compared to 2014 . We believe that healthy rental revenue growth will continue in 2016, although it may be tempered by the delivery of new apartment homes.
Management, development and other fees decreased $1,103,000 or 10.0% , and $452,000 , or 3.9% , in 2015 and 2014 , respectively, as compared to the prior years. The decrease in 2015 was primarily due to lower property and asset management fees earned as a result of dispositions from Fund I and Fund II, partially offset by an increase in disposition fees in 2015 related to the sale of  communities owned within the Residual JV. The decrease in 2014 was primarily due to lower property and asset management fees earned as a result of dispositions from Fund I and Fund II, partially offset by increased property and asset management fees related to the Archstone Acquisition for related private real estate investment management funds (the U.S. Fund and the AC JV).
Direct property operating expenses, excluding property taxes increased $31,471,000 , or 9.1% , and $50,696,000 , or 17.2% , in 2015 and 2014 , respectively, as compared to the prior years. The increases in 2015 and 2014 were primarily due to the addition of newly developed and acquired apartment communities. The increase in 2015 was also due to snow removal and other costs related to the severe winter storms in our Northeast markets during the first quarter of 2015.
For Established Communities, direct property operating expenses, excluding property taxes, increased $8,207,000 , or 3.1% , and $7,475,000 , or 4.0% , in 2015 and 2014 , respectively, as compared to the prior years. The increase in 2015 was primarily due to increased repairs and maintenance costs, payroll and benefit costs, and insurance costs, as well as snow removal and other costs related to the severe winter storms in our Northeast markets during the first quarter of 2015. The increase in 2014 was primarily due to increased repairs and maintenance, utilities and payroll costs.
Property taxes increased $14,865,000 , or 8.3% , and $19,860,000 , or 12.5% , in 2015 and 2014 , respectively, as compared to the prior years. The increases in 2015 and 2014 were primarily due to the addition of newly developed apartment communities, coupled with increased tax rates and assessments across our portfolio. The increase in 2015 was also due to successful appeals and reductions of supplemental taxes in the prior year in excess of the current year. The increase in 2014 was partially offset by reductions in expected supplemental billings related to communities acquired as part of the Archstone Acquisition.
For Established Communities, property taxes increased $3,829,000 , or 2.8% , and $6,206,000 , or 6.7% , in 2015 and 2014 , respectively, as compared to the prior years. The increase in 2015 was primarily due to successful appeals and reductions of supplemental taxes in the prior year period in excess of the current year, related primarily to the Companys West Coast markets.  The increase in 2014 was primarily due to higher rates and assessments, as well as refunds received in the prior year in excess of the current year period. For communities in California, property tax changes are determined by the change in the California Consumer Price Index, with increases limited by law (Proposition 13). Massachusetts also has laws in place to limit property tax increases.  We evaluate property tax increases internally and also engage third-party consultants to assist in our evaluations.  We appeal property tax increases when appropriate.
Corporate-level property management and other indirect operating expenses increased $6,719,000 , or 11.1% , and $7,236,000 , or 13.6% , in 2015 and 2014 , respectively, as compared to the prior years. The increases in 2015 and 2014 were primarily due to an increase in compensation related costs including certain employee separation costs. The increase in 2014 was also due to increased activities related to re-branding and corporate initiatives, and was also impacted as the first full year of operations following the Archstone Acquisition.
Investments and investment management costs decreased $115,000 , or 2.6% , in 2015 and increased by $495,000 , or 12.4% , in 2014 as compared to the prior years. The decrease in 2015 was primarily due to a decline in our investment fund management activity, partially offset by an increase in compensation costs.  The increase in 2014 was primarily due to an increase in compensation costs, partially offset by a decline in our investment fund management activity.
Expensed acquisition, development and other pursuit costs, net of recoveries primarily reflect the costs incurred related to our asset investment activity, abandoned pursuit costs, which include costs incurred for development pursuits not yet considered probable for development, as well as the abandonment of Development Rights, acquisition pursuits and disposition pursuits, offset by any recoveries associated with acquisitions for periods prior to our ownership. These costs can be volatile, particularly in periods of increased acquisition activity, periods of economic downturn or when there is limited access to capital, and the costs may vary significantly from period to period. These costs increased $10,539,000 in 2015 and decreased $48,767,000 in 2014 , as compared to the prior years. The increase in 2015 was primarily due to receipts in 2014 related to communities acquired as part of the Archstone Acquisition for periods prior to the Companys ownership, which are primarily comprised of property tax and mortgage insurance refunds, as well as increased costs associated with the acquisition of real estate and abandonment of pursuits, as compared to the prior year. The decrease in 2014 as compared to the prior year was due to the Archstone Acquisition in 2013, as well as 48 Table of Contents receipts in 2014 related to communities acquired as part of the Archstone Acquisition for periods prior to the Companys ownership discussed above.
Interest expense, net decreased $5,003,000 , or 2.8% , and increased $8,216,000 , or 4.8% , in 2015 and 2014 , respectively, as compared to the prior years. This category includes interest costs offset by capitalized interest pertaining to development and redevelopment activity, amortization of premium/discount on debt, and interest income. The decrease in 2015 was primarily due to the repayment of secured indebtedness in 2015 and increased capitalized interest as a result of our increased development activity, partially offset by an increase in the aggregate principal amount of unsecured debt outstanding resulting from the issuance of $875,000,000 principal amount of indebtedness during the year. The increase in 2014 was primarily due to increased unsecured debt outstanding, partially offset by an increase in capitalized interest related to our increased development activity.
(Gain) loss on the extinguishment of debt, net reflects prepayment penalties, the write-off of unamortized deferred financing costs and premiums from our debt repurchase and retirement activity, or payments to acquire our outstanding debt at amounts above or below the carrying basis of the debt acquired, excluding costs related to debt secured by assets sold or held for sale. The gain of $26,736,000 for 2015 was primarily due to the write-off of unamortized mark to market adjustments, net of unamortized deferred financing costs and any applicable related prepayment penalties associated with the early repayment of certain debt assumed as part of the Archstone Acquisition.
Loss on interest rate contract reflects the loss recorded by the Company related to the forward interest rate protection agreement that matured in May 2013. Based on changes in the Company's capital markets outlook in 2013, the Company did not issue the anticipated debt for which the interest rate protection agreement was transacted.
Depreciation expense increased $35,241,000 , or 8.0% , in 2015 and decreased $117,533,000 , or 21.0% , in 2014 , as compared to the prior years. The increase in 2015 was primarily due to the addition of newly developed apartment communities. The decrease in 2014 was primarily due to the impact of amortization for lease intangibles in 2013 not present in 2014, from communities acquired as part of the Archstone Acquisition.
General and administrative expense ("G&A") increased $971,000 , or 2.3% , and $1,852,000 , or 4.7% , in 2015 and 2014 , respectively, as compared to the prior years. The increase in 2015 was primarily due to legal settlement proceeds received in 2014 not present in the current year, partially offset by a decrease in compensation expense, including severance, in 2015 as compared to the prior year. The increase in 2014 was primarily due to an increase in compensation expense, partially offset by legal recoveries in 2014 not present in the prior year.
Casualty (gain) loss and impairment loss, net for 2015 consists of Edgewater insurance proceeds received, partially offset by (i) incident and demolition expenses and the write-off of the net book value of the fixed assets destroyed in the fire at Edgewater, (ii) property and casualty damages incurred across several communities in our Northeast markets related to severe winter storms, and (iii) an impairment charge recognized for a parcel of land sold during 2015.
Equity in income (loss) of unconsolidated entities decreased by $78,748,000 in 2015 and increased $159,920,000 in 2014 , as compared to the prior years. The decrease in 2015 and increase in 2014 were primarily due to both gains on, and our promoted interests from, the sale of communities in various ventures, including Avalon Chrystie Place, in 2014 in excess of gains on dispositions in 2015. The decrease in 2015 was partially offset by amounts received related to the modification of the joint venture agreement for the entity that owns Avalon at Mission Bay North II to eliminate our promoted interest in future distributions, as well as the settlement of outstanding legal claims and net gains on the sales of communities in various ventures. The increase in 2014 was also due to expensed transaction costs associated with the Archstone Acquisition that were incurred in 2013 through the unconsolidated joint venture entities owned with Equity Residential that were not present in 2014.
Gain on sale of real estate increased in 2015 and 2014 as compared to the prior years. The increase in 2015 was a result of the gain on sale of air rights, representing the right to increase density for future residential development, and two undeveloped land parcels. The increase in 2014 was due to changes in volume and associated gains on the sale of land parcels.
Gain on sale of communities increased in 2015 and 2014 as compared to the prior years. The amount of gain realized in a given period depends on many factors, including the number of communities sold, the size and carrying value of the communities sold and the market conditions in the local area. Prior to our adoption of ASU 2014-08 as of January 1, 2014, gain on sale of communities was presented in gain on sale of discontinued operations.
Income tax expense decreased by $7,507,000 in 2015 and increased by $9,368,000 in 2014 , as compared to the prior years. The decrease in 2015 and increase in 2014 were both primarily due to 2014 federal income tax expense amounts related to dispositions of the Company's direct and indirect interests in certain real estate assets acquired in the Archstone Acquisition, which were owned through a taxable REIT subsidiary.
49 Table of Contents Income from discontinued operations represents the net income generated by real estate sold and qualifying as discontinued operations during the period from January1, 2013 through December31, 2015 . Income from discontinued operations decreased in 2015 and 2014 , as compared to the prior years due to the change in accounting guidance for discontinued operations as discussed above.
Gain on sale of discontinued operations decreased in 2015 and 2014 , as compared to the prior years. After our adoption of ASU 2014-08 as of January 1, 2014, gain on sale of communities is presented separately from gain on sale of discontinued operations.
Net loss (income) attributable to noncontrolling interests resulted in an allocation of loss of $305,000 in 2015 , an allocation of income of $13,760,000 in 2014 and an allocation of loss of $370,000 in 2013 , respectively. The amount for 2014 includes our joint venture partners' 84.8% interest in the gain on the sale of a Fund I community that was consolidated for financial reporting purposes, in the amount of $14,132,000.
Liquidity and Capital Resources We employ a disciplined approach to our liquidity and capital management. When we source capital, we take into account both our view of the most cost effective alternative then available and our desire to maintain a balance sheet that provides us with flexibility. Our principal short-term liquidity needs are to fund:  development and redevelopment activity in which we are currently engaged;  the minimum dividend payments on our common stock required to maintain our REIT qualification under the Code;  debt service and principal payments either at maturity or opportunistically before maturity; and  normal recurring operating and corporate overhead expenses.
Factors affecting our liquidity and capital resources are our cash flows from operations, financing activities and investing activities (including dispositions) as well as general economic and market conditions. Operating cash flow has historically been determined by: (i)the number of apartment homes currently owned, (ii)rental rates, (iii)occupancy levels and (iv)operating expenses with respect to apartment homes. The timing and type of capital markets activity in which we engage, as well as our plans for development, redevelopment, acquisition and disposition activity, are affected by changes in the capital markets environment, such as changes in interest rates or the availability of cost-effective capital. We regularly review our liquidity needs, the adequacy of cash flows from operations and other expected liquidity sources to meet these needs.
We had unrestricted cash and cash equivalents of $400,507,000 at December31, 2015 , a decrease of $108,953,000 from $509,460,000 at December31, 2014 . The following discussion relates to changes in cash due to operating, investing and financing activities, which are presented in our Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows included elsewhere in this report.
Operating ActivitiesNet cash provided by operating activities increased to $1,056,754,000 in 2015 from $886,641,000 in 2014 . The increase was driven primarily by increased NOI from existing and newly developed communities and the timing of payments of corporate obligations.
Investing ActivitiesNet cash used in investing activities of $1,199,517,000 in 2015 is related to investments in assets primarily through development and redevelopment, partially offset by proceeds received for dispositions and distributions from unconsolidated joint ventures. In 2015 , we invested $1,625,191,000 in the following areas:  we invested approximately $1,569,326,000 in the development and redevelopment of communities including $475,150,000 for the acquisition of direct interests in land for development; and  we had capital expenditures of 55,865,000 for our operating communities and non-real estate assets.
These amounts are partially offset by:  proceeds from dispositions of $282,163,000 ;  insurance recoveries for property damage claims related to Edgewater of $44,142,000; and  net distributions from unconsolidated joint ventures in the amount of $102,599,000 .
Financing ActivitiesNet cash provided by financing activities totaled $33,810,000 in 2015 . The net cash used/provided is primarily due to:  proceeds from the issuance of unsecured notes in the aggregate principal amount of $823,088,000; 50 Table of Contents  issuance of common stock in the amount of $690,184,000 , including $659,423,000 from the settlement of the Forward, and  borrowing the final $50,000,000 available under the $300,000,000 variable rate unsecured term loan (the Term Loan).
These amounts are partially offset by:  repayment of secured notes in the amount of $850,963,000 ;  payment of cash dividends in the amount of $655,248,000 ; and  redemption of preferred interest obligation in the amount of $14,410,000 .
Variable Rate Unsecured Credit Facility As of December31, 2015 , we had a $1,300,000,000 revolving variable rate unsecured credit facility with a syndicate of banks (the "Credit Facility") which was scheduled to mature in April 2017.
In January 2016, we extended the maturity of the Credit Facility from April 2017 to April 2020 , and amended other provisions in the Credit Facility. In addition, pursuant to an option available under the terms of the Credit Facility, with the approval of the syndicate of lenders, we increased the aggregate facility size from $1,300,000,000 to $1,500,000,000 (the "Credit Facility Increase"). We may further extend the term for up to nine months, provided we are not in default and upon payment of a $1,500,000 extension fee. In connection with the Credit Facility Increase, the applicable margin over reference rates used to determine the applicable interest rates on our borrowings from time to time decreased. The Credit Facility bears interest at varying levels based on the London Interbank Offered Rate ("LIBOR"), rating levels achieved on our unsecured notes and on a maturity schedule selected by us. The current stated pricing is LIBOR plus 0.825% per annum ( 1.25% at January31, 2016 assuming a one month borrowing rate). The stated spread over LIBOR can vary from LIBOR plus 0.80% to LIBOR plus 1.55% based on our credit ratings. In addition, a competitive bid option is available for borrowings up to 65% of the Credit Facility amount, which allows banks that are part the lender consortium to bid to make loans at a rate that is lower than the stated rate if market conditions allow. In connection with the Credit Facility Increase, the annual facility fee was also amended to lower the fee to 0.125% from 0.15% , approximately $1,875,000 annually based on the $1,500,000,000 facility size and based on our current credit rating).
We did not have any borrowings outstanding under the Credit Facility and had $50,299,000 outstanding in letters of credit that reduced our borrowing capacity as of January31, 2016 .
Financial Covenants We are subject to financial and other covenants contained in the Credit Facility, the Term Loan and the indenture under which our unsecured notes were issued. The principal financial covenants include the following:  limitations on the amount of total and secured debt in relation to our overall capital structure;  limitations on the amount of our unsecured debt relative to the undepreciated basis of real estate assets that are not encumbered by property-specific financing; and  minimum levels of debt service coverage.
We were in compliance with these covenants at December31, 2015 .
In addition, our secured borrowings may include yield maintenance, defeasance, or prepayment penalty provisions, which would result in us incurring an additional charge in the event of a full or partial prepayment of outstanding principal before the scheduled maturity. These provisions in our secured borrowings are generally consistent with other similar types of debt instruments issued during the same time period in which our borrowings were secured.
Continuous Equity Offering Program In August 2012, we commenced a third continuous equity program ("CEP III"), under which were authorized by our Board of Directors to sell up to $750,000,000 of shares of our common stock from time to time during a 36 -month period. CEP III expired in August 2015, and we had no sales under the program during the year ended December31, 2015 .
In December 2015, we commenced a fourth continuous equity program ("CEP IV") under which we may sell up to $1,000,000,000 of our common stock from time to time. Actual sales will depend on a variety of factors to be determined, including market conditions, the trading price of our common stock and determinations of the appropriate sources of funding. In conjunction with CEP IV, we engaged sales agents who will receive compensation of up to 2.0% of the gross sales price for shares sold. CEP IV 51 Table of Contents also allows us to enter into forward sale agreements up to $1,000,000,000 in aggregate sales price of our common stock. We will physically settle each forward sale agreement on one or more dates prior to the maturity date of that particular forward sale agreement, in which case we will expect to receive aggregate net cash proceeds at settlement equal to the number of shares underlying the particular forward agreement multiplied by the relevant forward sale price. However, we may also elect to cash settle or net share settle a forward sale agreement. In connection with each forward sale agreement, we will pay the relevant forward seller, in the form of a reduced initial forward sale price, commission of up to 2.0% of the sales prices of all borrowed shares of common stock sold. As of December31, 2015 , we had no sales under the program and had not entered into any forward sale agreements. As of January31, 2016 , we had $1,000,000,000 of shares remaining authorized for issuance under this program.
Forward Equity Contract On September 9, 2014, based on a market closing price of $155.83 per share on that date, we entered into a forward contract to sell 4,500,000 shares of common stock for an initial forward price of $151.74 per share, net of offering fees and discounts (the "Forward"). The sales price and proceeds achieved were determined on the dates of settlement, with adjustments during the term of the contract for the Companys dividends as well as for a daily interest factor that varied with changes in the Fed Funds rate. During the year ended December31, 2015 , we issued 4,500,000 shares of common stock at a weighted average sales price of $146.54 per share, for net proceeds of $659,423,000 , in settlement of the Forward.
Forward Interest Rate Swap Agreements During 2015 , we entered into $600,000,000 of forward interest rate swap agreements to reduce the impact of variability in interest rates on a portion of our expected debt issuance activity in 2016 and 2017. At maturity of the agreements, we expect to cash settle the contracts and either pay or receive cash for the then current fair value. Assuming that we issue the debt as expected, the impact from settling these positions will then be recognized over the life of the issued debt as a yield adjustment. During January and February 2016, we entered into $450,000,000 additional forward interest rate swap agreements to reduce the impact of variability of interest rates on an incremental portion of expected debt activity in 2016 and 2017.
Future Financing and Capital NeedsDebt Maturities One of our principal long-term liquidity needs is the repayment of long-term debt at maturity. For both our unsecured and secured notes, a portion of the principal of these notes may be repaid prior to maturity. Early retirement of our unsecured or secured notes could result in gains or losses on extinguishment. If we do not have funds on hand sufficient to repay our indebtedness as it becomes due, it will be necessary for us to refinance or otherwise provide liquidity to satisfy the debt at maturity. This refinancing may be accomplished by uncollateralized private or public debt offerings, equity issuances, additional debt financing that is secured by mortgages on individual communities or groups of communities or borrowings under our Credit Facility or Term Loan. Although we believe we will have the capacity to meet our currently anticipated liquidity needs, we cannot assure you that additional debt financing or debt or equity offerings will be available or, if available, that they will be on terms we consider satisfactory.
The following debt activity occurred during 2015 :  In January 2015, in conjunction with the disposition of Avalon on Stamford Harbor, another operating community, AVA Belltown, was substituted as collateral for the disposed community's outstanding fixed rate secured mortgage loan.
In March2015, we borrowed the final $50,000,000 available under the Term Loan, maturing in March 2021 .
In April 2015, we repaid an aggregate of $481,582,000 principal amount of secured indebtedness, which includes eight fixed rate mortgage loans secured by eight wholly-owned operating communities, at par. The indebtedness had an aggregate effective interest rate of 3.12% , and a stated maturity date of November 2015 . We incurred a gain on the early debt extinguishment of $8,724,000 , representing the excess of the write-off of unamortized premium from the debt assumed in the Archstone Acquisition.
In May 2015, we issued $525,000,000 principal amount of unsecured notes in a public offering under our existing shelf registration statement for net proceeds of approximately $520,653,000 . The notes mature in June 2025 and were issued at a 3.45% coupon interest rate.
In June 2015, we repaid a $15,778,000 fixed rate secured mortgage note with an effective interest rate of 7.50% at par in advance of its February 2041 maturity date, recognizing a charge of $455,000 for a prepayment penalty and write-off of unamortized deferred financing costs.
52 Table of Contents  In June 2015, we repaid a $7,805,000 fixed rate secured mortgage note with an effective interest rate of 7.84% at par and without penalty in advance of its May 2027 maturity date, recognizing a charge of $263,000 for the write-off of unamortized deferred financing costs.
In June 2015, we repaid the $74,531,000 fixed rate secured mortgage note secured by Edgewater, with an effective interest rate of 5.95% at par and without penalty in advance of its May 2019 maturity date, recognizing a charge of $259,000 for the write-off of unamortized deferred financing costs.
In July 2015, we repaid a $140,346,000 fixed rate secured mortgage note with an effective interest rate of 5.56% in advance of its May 2053 maturity date, resulting in a recognized gain of $18,987,000 , consisting of the write off of unamortized premium net of unamortized deferred financing costs of $30,215,000 , partially offset by a prepayment penalty of $11,228,000 .
In November 2015, we issued $300,000,000 principal amount of unsecured notes in a public offering under our existing shelf registration statement for net proceeds of approximately $297,072,000 . The notes mature in November 2025 and were issued at a 3.5% coupon interest rate.
In December 2015, we repaid a $46,938,000 fixed rate secured mortgage note with an effective interest rate of 6.23% , at par, pursuant to its scheduled maturity date.
In December 2015, we repaid a $56,492,000 fixed rate secured mortgage note with an effective interest rate of 6.13% , at par, pursuant to its scheduled maturity date.
The following table details our consolidated debt maturities for the next five years, excluding our Credit Facility and amounts outstanding related to communities classified as held for sale, for debt outstanding at December31, 2015 (dollars in thousands) as compared to the amounts of debt outstanding as of at December31, 2014 . We are not directly or indirectly (as borrower or guarantor) obligated in any material respect to pay principal or interest on the indebtedness of any unconsolidated entities in which we have an equity or other interest.
53 Table of Contents All-In interest rate(1) Principal maturity date BalanceOutstanding (2) Community 12/31/2014 12/31/2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 Thereafter Tax-exempt bonds Fixed rate Eaves Washingtonian Center I 7.84 % May-2027 (3) $ 8,011 $  $  $  $  $  $  $  Avalon Oaks 7.50 % Feb-2041 (3) 15,887        Avalon Oaks West 7.54 % Apr-2043 15,847 15,649 211 225 241 257 275 14,440 Avalon at Chestnut Hill 6.16 % Oct-2047 39,545 39,088 482 509 536 566 596 36,399 Avalon Westbury 4.13 % Nov-2036 (4) 62,200 62,200      62,200 141,490 116,937 693 734 777 823 871 113,039 Variable rate (5) Avalon at Mountain View 0.77 % Feb-2017 (6) 18,100 17,700  17,700     Eaves Mission Viejo 1.20 % Jun-2025 (6) 7,635 7,635      7,635 AVA Nob Hill 1.11 % Jun-2025 (6) 20,800 20,800      20,800 Avalon Campbell 1.43 % Jun-2025 (6) 38,800 38,800      38,800 Eaves Pacifica 1.45 % Jun-2025 (6) 17,600 17,600      17,600 Avalon Bowery Place 2.78 % Nov-2037 (6) 93,800 93,800      93,800 Avalon Acton 1.48 % Jul-2040 (6) 45,000 45,000      45,000 Avalon Walnut Creek 1.39 % Mar-2046 (4) 116,000 116,000      116,000 Avalon Walnut Creek 1.39 % Mar-2046 (4) 10,000 10,000      10,000 Avalon Morningside Park 1.32 % May-2046 (4) 100,000 100,000      100,000 Avalon Clinton North 1.70 % Nov-2038 (6) 147,000 147,000      147,000 Avalon Clinton South 1.70 % Nov-2038 (6) 121,500 121,500      121,500 Avalon Midtown West 1.61 % May-2029 (6) 100,500 100,500      100,500 Avalon San Bruno 1.59 % Dec-2037 (6) 64,450 64,450      64,450 Avalon Calabasas 1.67 % Apr-2028 (6) 44,410 44,410      44,410 945,595 945,195  17,700    927,495 Conventional loans Fixed rate $250 Million unsecured notes 5.89 % Sep-2016 250,000 250,000 250,000      $250 Million unsecured notes 5.82 % Mar-2017 250,000 250,000  250,000     $250 Million unsecured notes 6.19 % Mar-2020 250,000 250,000     250,000  $250 Million unsecured notes 4.04 % Jan-2021 250,000 250,000      250,000 $450 Million unsecured notes 4.30 % Sep-2022 450,000 450,000      450,000 $250 Million unsecured notes 3.00 % Mar-2023 250,000 250,000      250,000 $400 Million unsecured notes 3.78 % Oct-2020 400,000 400,000     400,000  $350 Million unsecured notes 4.30 % Dec-2023 350,000 350,000      350,000 $300 Million unsecured notes 3.66 % Nov-2024 300,000 300,000      300,000 $525 Million unsecured notes 3.55 % Jun-2025  525,000      525,000 $300 Million unsecured notes 3.62 % Nov-2025  300,000      300,000 Avalon Orchards 7.79 % Jul-2033 17,091 16,621 503 539 577 619 663 13,720 Avalon Darien 6.23 % Dec-2015 (7) 47,700        AVA Stamford 6.13 % Dec-2015 (7) 57,423        Avalon Walnut Creek 4.34 % Jul-2066 3,042 3,289      3,289 Avalon Shrewsbury 5.92 % May-2019 20,174 19,867 323 346 367 18,831   Eaves Trumbull 5.93 % May-2019 (8) 39,452 38,852 631 676 717 36,828   AVA Belltown 6.00 % May-2019 (9) 62,724 61,769 1,003 1,075 1,140 58,551   Avalon at Freehold 5.95 % May-2019 34,973 34,441 559 599 636 32,647   Avalon Run East 5.95 % May-2019 37,475 36,904 599 642 681 34,982   Eaves Nanuet 6.07 % May-2019 63,242 62,279 1,011 1,083 1,150 59,035   Avalon at Edgewater 5.95 % May-2019 (3) 75,012        Avalon at Foxhall 6.06 % May-2019 56,341 55,484 901 965 1,024 52,594   Avalon at Gallery Place 6.06 % May-2019 43,776 43,110 700 750 796 40,864   Avalon at Traville 5.91 % May-2019 74,186 73,057 1,186 1,271 1,348 69,252   Avalon Bellevue 5.92 % May-2019 25,491 25,103 408 437 463 23,795   Avalon on the Alameda 5.91 % May-2019 51,539 50,754 824 883 937 48,110   Avalon at Mission Bay North 5.90 % May-2019 69,955 68,890 1,118 1,198 1,272 65,302   54 Table of Contents AVA Pasadena 4.06 % Jun-2018 11,683 11,489 202 213 11,074    Eaves Seal Beach 3.12 % Nov-2015 (10) 85,122        Toluca Hills Apartments by Avalon 3.12 % Nov-2015 (10) 165,561        Eaves Mountain View at Middlefield 3.12 % Nov-2015 (10) 71,496        Eaves Tunlaw Gardens 3.12 % Nov-2015 (10) 28,494        Eaves Glover Park 3.12 % Nov-2015 (10) 23,569        Oakwood Arlington 3.12 % Nov-2015 (10) 42,185        Eaves North Quincy 3.12 % Nov-2015 (10) 36,761        Avalon Thousand Oaks Plaza 3.12 % Nov-2015 (10) 28,394        Avalon La Jolla Colony 3.36 % Nov-2017 27,176 27,176  27,176     Eaves Old Town Pasadena 3.36 % Nov-2017 15,669 15,669  15,669     Eaves Thousand Oaks 3.36 % Nov-2017 27,411 27,411  27,411     Avalon Walnut Ridge I 3.36 % Nov-2017 20,754 20,754  20,754     Eaves Los Feliz 3.36 % Nov-2017 43,258 43,258  43,258     Avalon Oak Creek 3.36 % Nov-2017 85,288 85,288  85,288     Avalon Del Mar Station 3.36 % Nov-2017 76,471 76,471  76,471     Avalon Courthouse Place 3.36 % Nov-2017 140,332 140,332  140,332     Avalon Pasadena 3.36 % Nov-2017 28,079 28,079  28,079     Eaves West Valley 3.36 % Nov-2017 75,092 75,092  75,092     Eaves West Valley II 3.36 % Nov-2017 7,995 7,995  7,995     Eaves Woodland Hills 3.36 % Nov-2017 104,694 104,694  104,694     Avalon Russett 3.36 % Nov-2017 39,972 39,972  39,972     Avalon First & M 5.56 % May-2053 (11) 140,964        Avalon San Bruno II 3.85 % Apr-2021 30,968 30,514 475 506 534 564 591 27,844 Avalon Westbury 4.13 % Nov-2036 (4) 20,145 18,975 1,231 1,293 1,358 1,426 1,499 12,168 Archstone Lexington 3.32 % Mar-2016 16,525 16,255 16,255      Avalon San Bruno III 4.87 % Jun-2020 56,210 55,650 1,147 1,188 1,226 1,264 50,825  Avalon Andover 3.29 % Apr-2018 14,505 14,179 336 346 13,497    Avalon Natick 3.14 % Apr-2019 14,818 14,499 329 339 349 13,482   5,009,187 5,019,172 279,741 956,540 39,146 558,146 703,578 2,482,021 Variable rate (5) Avalon Walnut Creek 1.73 % Mar-2046 (4) 8,500 8,500      8,500 Avalon Calabasas 2.41 % Aug-2018 (6) 55,827 54,756 1,152 1,225 52,379    Avalon Natick 2.69 % Apr-2019 (6) 37,539 36,731 833 858 884 34,156   Term Loan 1.99 % Mar-2021 250,000 300,000      300,000 351,866 399,987 1,985 2,083 53,263 34,156  308,500 Total indebtedness - excluding Credit Facility $ 6,448,138 $ 6,481,291 $ 282,419 $ 977,057 $ 93,186 $ 593,125 $ 704,449 $ 3,831,055 _________________________________ (1) Includes credit enhancement fees, facility fees, trustees fees, the impact of interest rate hedges, offering costs, mark to market amortization and other fees.
(2) Balances outstanding represent total amounts due at maturity, and exclude deferred financing costs, debt discount and basis adjustments associated with the hedged unsecured note of $29,326 and $24,467 as of December31, 2015 and 2014 , respectively, and  premium associated with secured notes, net of deferred financing costs, of $4,983 and $66,036 as of December31, 2015 and 2014 , respectively, as reflected on our Consolidated Balance Sheets included elsewhere in this report.
(3) In June 2015, we repaid this borrowing in advance of its maturity date.
(4) Maturity date reflects the contractual maturity of the underlying bond. There is also an associated earlier credit enhancement maturity date.
(5) Variable rates are given as of December31, 2015 .
(6) Financed by variable rate debt, but interest rate is capped through an interest rate protection agreement.
(7) Borrowing was repaid at par in accordance with its scheduled maturity.
(8) In January 2016, another community, Avalon at Stratford, was substituted as collateral for the outstanding borrowing.
(9) In conjunction with the disposition of Avalon on Stamford Harbor in January 2015, this community was substituted as collateral for the outstanding borrowing.
55 Table of Contents (10) In April 2015, we repaid this borrowing at par in advance of its maturity date.
(11) In July 2015, we elected to repay this borrowing in advance of its maturity date, incurring a prepayment penalty of $11,228,000.
Future Financing and Capital NeedsPortfolio and Capital Markets Activity In 2016, we expect to meet our liquidity needs from a variety of internal and external sources, including (i) real estate dispositions, (ii) cash balances on hand as well as cash generated from our operating activities, (iii) borrowing capacity under our Credit Facility and (iv) secured and unsecured debt financings.  Additional sources of liquidity in 2016 may include the issuance of common and preferred equity. Our ability to obtain additional financing will depend on a variety of factors such as market conditions, the general availability of credit, the overall availability of credit to the real estate industry, our credit ratings and credit capacity, as well as the perception of lenders regarding our long or short-term financial prospects.
Before beginning new construction or reconstruction activity, including activity related to communities owned by unconsolidated joint ventures, we intend to plan adequate financing to complete these undertakings, although we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain such financing. In the event that financing cannot be obtained, we may have to abandon Development Rights, write off associated pre-development costs that were capitalized and/or forego reconstruction activity. In such instances, we will not realize the increased revenues and earnings that we expected from such Development Rights or reconstruction activity and significant losses could be incurred.
From time to time we use joint ventures to hold or develop individual real estate assets. We generally employ joint ventures primarily to mitigate asset concentration or market risk and secondarily as a source of liquidity. We may also use joint ventures related to mixed-use land development opportunities where our partners bring development and operational expertise to the venture. Each joint venture or partnership agreement has been individually negotiated, and our ability to operate and/or dispose of a community in our sole discretion may be limited to varying degrees depending on the terms of the joint venture or partnership agreement. We cannot assure you that we will achieve our objectives through joint ventures.
In evaluating our allocation of capital within our markets, we sell assets that do not meet our long-term investment criteria or when capital and real estate markets allow us to realize a portion of the value created over the past business cycle and redeploy the proceeds from those sales to develop and redevelop communities.Because the proceeds from the sale of communities may not be immediately redeployed into revenue generating assets that we develop, redevelop or acquire, the immediate effect of a sale of a community for a gain is to increase net income, but reduce future total revenues, total expenses and NOI until such time as the proceeds have been redeployed into revenue generating assets.We believe that the temporary absence of future cash flows from communities sold will not have a material impact on our ability to fund future liquidity and capital resource needs.
56 Table of Contents Unconsolidated Real Estate Investments and Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements Unconsolidated Investments The Funds were established to engage in real estate acquisition programs through discretionary investment funds. We believe this investment format provides the following attributes: (i)third-party joint venture equity as an additional source of financing to expand and diversify our portfolio; (ii)additional sources of income in the form of property management and asset management fees and, potentially, incentive distributions if the performance of the Funds exceeds certain thresholds; and (iii)additional visibility into the transactions occurring in multifamily assets that helps us with other investment decisions related to our wholly-owned portfolio.
Fund I had nine institutional investors, including us. One of our wholly-owned subsidiaries was the general partner of Fund I and had a 15.2% combined general partner and limited partner equity interest. Fund I was our principal vehicle for acquiring apartment communities from its formation in March2005 through the close of its investment period in March2008. Fund I disposed of the last of its communities in 2014, and was dissolved in April 2015.
Fund II has six institutional investors, including us. One of our wholly-owned subsidiaries is the general partner of Fund II and, excluding costs incurred in excess of our equity in the underlying net assets of Fund II, we have an equity investment of $50,443,000 (net of distributions), representing a 31.3% combined general partner and limited partner equity interest. Fund II served as the exclusive vehicle for acquiring apartment communities from its formation in 2008 through the close of its investment period in August2011. Fund II has a term that expires in August 2020, assuming the exercise of two, one-year extension options.
During the year ended December31, 2015 , Fund II sold four communities containing an aggregate of 1,460 apartment homes for an aggregate sales price of $300,100,000 . Our share of the total gain in accordance with GAAP was $29,726,000 . In conjunction with the disposition of these communities, Fund II repaid $69,036,000 of related secured indebtedness in advance of the scheduled maturity dates, which resulted in charges for a prepayment penalty and write off of deferred financing costs, of which our portion was approximately $1,400,000 .
In 2016, Fund II sold Eaves Rancho San Diego, located in El Cajon, CA, containing 676 apartment homes for $158,000,000 .
The U.S. Fund has six institutional investors, including us. We are the general partner of the U.S. Fund and, excluding costs incurred in excess of our equity in the underlying net assets of the U.S. Fund, we have an equity investment of $68,683,000 (net of distributions), representing a 28.6% combined equity interest. The U.S. Fund was formed in July2011 and is fully invested. The U.S. Fund has a term that expires in July 2023, assuming the exercise of two, one-year extension options. We acquired our interest in the U.S. Fund as part of the Archstone Acquisition. In December 2015, a subsidiary of the U.S. Fund obtained a $51,300,000 variable rate, interest only, mortgage note maturing in December 2020, which is secured by Avalon Marina Bay, which has been converted to an effective fixed rate borrowing with an interest rate swap.
In 2016, the U.S. Fund sold Archstone Boca Town Center, located in Boca Raton, FL, containing 252 apartment homes for $56,300,000 , and Avalon Kips Bay, located in New York, NY, containing 209 apartment homes for $173,000,000 .
The  AC JV has four institutional investors, including us. Excluding costs incurred in excess of our equity in the underlying net assets of the AC JV, we have an equity investment of $52,148,000 (net of distributions), representing a 20.0% equity interest. The AC JV was formed in 2011.
During 2015, we received $20,680,000 from the joint venture partner associated with MVP I, LLC, the entity that owns Avalon at Mission Bay North II, upon agreement with the partner to modify the joint venture agreement to eliminate our promoted interest from associated distributions for future return calculations. Prospectively, earnings and distributions will be based on our 25.0% equity interest in the venture.
During 2015 , SWIB, the joint venture for which we have an 8.0% indirect interest in through the Residual JV, sold the final four communities containing 1,410 apartment homes, for an aggregate sales price of $283,700,000 . Our proportionate share of the gain in accordance with GAAP for the four dispositions was $3,853,000 . In conjunction with the disposition of these communities, SWIB repaid $148,866,000 of related indebtedness on its credit facility in advance of the scheduled maturity dates. In addition, during 2015 , we recognized equity in income of unconsolidated real estate entities of $10,601,000 associated with the settlement of outstanding legal claims against third parties and land sales in the Residual JV.
As of December31, 2015 , we had investments in the following unconsolidated real estate accounted for under the equity method of accounting. Refer to Note 5, Investments in Real Estate Entities, of the Consolidated Financial Statements located elsewhere in this report, which includes information on the aggregate assets, liabilities and equity, as well as operating results, and our proportionate share of their operating results. For ventures holding operating apartment communities as of December31, 2015 , detail of the real estate and associated funding underlying our unconsolidated investments is presented in the following table (dollars in thousands).
57 Table of Contents Debt (2) Unconsolidated Real Estate Investments Company Ownership Percentage # of Apartment Homes Total Capitalized Cost (1) Principal Amount Type Interest Rate (3) Maturity Date Fund II 1. Briarwood Apartments - Owings Mills, MD 348 $ 45,936 $ 25,808 Fixed 3.64 % Nov 2017 2. Eaves Gaithersburg - Gaithersburg, MD (4) 684 102,847 63,200 Fixed 5.42 % Jan 2018 3. Eaves Tustin - Tustin, CA 628 101,353 59,100 Fixed 3.81 % Oct 2017 4. Eaves Rockville - Rockville, MD 210 51,721 29,653 Fixed 4.26 % Aug 2019 5. Eaves Rancho San Diego - El Cajon, CA (5) 676 127,939 68,349 Fixed 3.45 % Nov 2018 6. Avalon Watchung - Watchung, NJ 334 66,650 40,433 Fixed 3.37 % Apr 2019 Total Fund II 31.3 % 2,880 $ 496,446 $ 286,543 4.05 % U.S. Fund 1. Eaves SunnyvaleSunnyvale, CA (4) 192 $ 67,115 $ 33,351 Fixed 5.33 % Nov 2019 2. Avalon Studio 4041Studio City, CA 149 56,843 30,101 Fixed 3.34 % Nov 2022 3. Avalon Marina BayMarina del Rey, CA (6) 205 77,146 51,300 Fixed 1.56 % Dec 2020 4. Avalon Venice on RoseVenice, CA 70 57,207 30,462 Fixed 3.28 % Jun 2020 5. Archstone Boca Town CenterBoca Raton, FL (7) 252 46,311 27,367 Fixed/Variable 3.57 % Feb 2019 6. Avalon Station 250Dedham, MA 285 95,667 58,647 Fixed 3.73 % Sep 2022 7. Avalon Grosvenor TowerBethesda, MD 237 79,670 45,454 Fixed 3.74 % Sep 2022 8. Avalon Kips BayNew York, NY (8) 209 134,569 67,589 Fixed 4.25 % Jan 2019 9. Avalon Kirkland at CarillonKirkland, WA 131 53,138 29,592 Fixed 3.75 % Feb 2019 Total U.S. Fund 28.6 % 1,730 $ 667,666 $ 373,863 3.59 % AC JV 1. Avalon North PointCambridge, MA (9) 426 $ 186,785 $ 111,653 Fixed 6.00 % Aug 2021 2. Avalon Woodland ParkHerndon, VA (9) 392 85,467 50,647 Fixed 6.00 % Aug 2021 3. Avalon North Points Lofts  Cambridge, MA 103 26,839  N/A N/A N/A Total AC JV 20.0 % 921 $ 299,091 $ 162,300 6.00 % Other Operating Joint Ventures 1. MVP I, LLC (10) 25.0 % 313 $ 124,457 $ 103,000 Fixed 3.24 % Jul 2025 2. Brandywine Apartments of Maryland, LLC 28.7 % 305 18,443 23,835 Fixed 3.40 % Jun 2028 Total Other Joint Ventures 618 $ 142,900 $ 126,835 3.27 % Total Unconsolidated Investments 6,149 $ 1,606,103 $ 949,541 4.10 % _________________________________ (1) Represents total capitalized cost as of December31, 2015 .
(2) We have not guaranteed the debt of unconsolidated investees and bear no responsibility for the repayment.
(3) Represents weighted average rate on outstanding debt as of December31, 2015 .
(4) Borrowing on this community is comprised of two mortgage loans.
(5) In February 2016, this community was sold for a sales price of $158,000 , a portion of which was used to repay the outstanding indebtedness.
(6) In December 2015, Avalon Marina Bay obtained a $51,300 variable rate loan with a maturity date of December 2020 , which has been converted to an effective fixed rate borrowing with an interest rate swap.
(7) In January 2016 this community was sold for a sales price of $56,300 , a portion of which was used to repay the outstanding indebtedness.
(8) In February 2016, this community was sold for a sales price of $173,000 , a portion of which was used to repay the outstanding indebtedness.
(9) Borrowing is comprised of four mortgage loans made by the equity investors in the venture in proportion to their equity interests.
(10) In June 2015, MVP I, LLC obtained a $103,000 fixed rate loan, with a maturity date of July 2025, and used the proceeds and cash on hand to repay its existing $105,000 , variable rate loan which was scheduled to mature in December 2015, at par.
58 Table of Contents Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements In addition to our investment interests in consolidated and unconsolidated real estate entities, we have certain off-balance sheet arrangements with the entities in which we invest. Additional discussion of these entities can be found in Note5, "Investments in Real Estate Entities," of our Consolidated Financial Statements located elsewhere in this report.
We have not guaranteed the debt of our unconsolidated real estate entities, as referenced in the table above, nor do we have any obligation to fund this debt should the unconsolidated real estate entities be unable to do so. In the future, in the event the unconsolidated real estate entities were unable to meet their obligations under a loan, we cannot predict at this time whether we would provide any voluntary support, or take any other action, as any such action would depend on a variety of factors, including the amount of support required and the possibility that such support could enhance the return of the unconsolidated real estate entities and/or our returns by providing time for performance to improve.
With respect to Fund II, each individual mortgage loan was made to a special purpose, single asset subsidiary of Fund II. Each mortgage loan provides that it is the obligation of the respective subsidiary only, except under exceptional circumstances (such as fraud or misapplication of funds) in which case Fund II could also have obligations with respect to the mortgage loan. In no event do the mortgage loans provide for recourse against investors in Fund II, including against us or our wholly-owned subsidiaries that invest in Fund II.A default by Fund II or a Fund II subsidiary on any loan to it would not constitute a default under any of our loans or any loans of our other non-Fund subsidiaries or affiliates. If Fund II or a subsidiary of Fund II were unable to meet its obligations under a loan, the value of our investment in Fund II would likely decline. If a Fund II subsidiary or Fund II were unable to meet its obligations under a loan, we and/or the other investors might evaluate whether it was in our respective interests to voluntarily support Fund II through additional equity contributions and/or take other actions to avoid a default under a loan or the consequences of a default (such as foreclosure of a Fund II asset).
In addition, as part of the formation of Fund II, we provided to one of the limited partners a guarantee. The guarantee provided that if, upon final liquidation of Fund II, the total amount of all distributions to that partner during the life of Fund II (whether from operating cash flow or property sales) did not equal a minimum of the total capital contributions made by that partner, then we would pay the partner an amount equal to the shortfall, but in no event more than 10% of the total capital contributions made by the partner. During the year ended December31, 2015 , the limited partner transferred its investment interest to an unrelated third party. The guarantee was not transferred with the investment interest, so we have no further obligation under the guarantee.
There are no other material lines of credit, side agreements, financial guarantees or any other derivative financial instruments related to or between our unconsolidated real estate entities and us. In evaluating our capital structure and overall leverage, management takes into consideration our proportionate share of the indebtedness of unconsolidated entities in which we have an interest.
Contractual Obligations Scheduled contractual obligations required for the next five years and thereafter are as follows as of December31, 2015 (dollars in thousands): Payments due by period Total Less than 1 Year 1-3 Years 3-5 Years More than 5 Years Debt Obligations $ 6,481,291 $ 282,419 $ 1,070,243 $ 1,297,574 $ 3,831,055 Interest on Debt Obligations 1,420,913 241,423 390,254 261,225 528,011 Capital Lease Obligations (1) (2) 69,785 2,098 19,931 2,136 45,620 Operating Lease Obligations (1) 1,245,596 21,056 41,436 39,569 1,143,535 $ 9,217,585 $ 546,996 $ 1,521,864 $ 1,600,504 $ 5,548,221 _________________________________ (1) Includes land leases expiring between October 2026 and March 2142 . Amounts do not include any adjustment for purchase options available under the land leases.
(2) Aggregate capital lease payments include $29,069 in interest costs.
59 Table of Contents Inflation and Deflation Substantially all of our apartment leases are for a term of one year or less. In an inflationary environment, this may allow us to realize increased rents upon renewal of existing leases or the beginning of new leases. Short-term leases generally minimize our risk from the adverse effects of inflation, although these leases generally permit residents to leave at the end of the lease term and therefore expose us to the effects of a decline in market rents. Similarly, in a deflationary rent environment, we may be exposed to declining rents more quickly under these shorter-term leases.
Federal Income Tax Law Changes and Updates The following discussion updates the disclosures under Federal Income Tax Considerations and Consequences of Your Investment in the prospectus dated February 19, 2015 contained in our Registration Statement on Form S-3 filed with the SEC on February 19, 2015.
The discussion in the last sentence under Federal Income Tax Considerations and Consequences of Your Investment-Other U.S. Federal Income Tax Withholding and Reporting Requirements on page 61 is replaced with the following sentence: Withholding under this legislation will apply after December 31, 2018 with respect to the gross proceeds of a disposition of property that can produce U.S. source interest or dividends and currently applies with respect to other withholdable payments.
The discussion under Federal Income Tax Considerations and Consequences of Your Investment-Taxation of AvalonBay as a REIT-Ownership of Partnership Interests by a REIT on page 47 is supplemented by inserting the paragraph below at the end of that subsection: Under the Code, a partnership that is not treated as a corporation under the publicly traded partnership rules generally is not subject to U.S. federal income tax; instead, each partner is allocated its distributive share of the partnerships items of income, gain, loss, deduction and credit and is required to take such items into account in determining the partners income. However, a recent law change enacted under the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015, effective for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017, requires the partnership to pay the hypothetical increase in partner-level taxes (including interest and penalties) resulting from an adjustment of partnership tax items on audit or in other tax proceedings, unless the partnership elects an alternative method under which the taxes resulting from the adjustment (and interest and penalties) are assessed at the partner level. Many uncertainties remain as to the application of these rules, including the application of the alternative method to partners that are REITs, and the impact they will have on us. However, it is possible, that partnerships in which we invest may be subject to U.S. federal income tax, interest and penalties in the event of a U.S. federal income tax audit as a result of these law changes.
Recent legislation modifies several of the REIT rules discussed in the prospectus.  The Protecting Americans from Tax Hikes Act of 2015 (the Act) was enacted on December 18, 2015 and contains several provisions pertaining to REIT qualification and taxation. Some of these implicate certain tax-related disclosure contained in the prospectus and are briefly summarized below:  For taxable years beginning after December 31, 2015, the Act expands the exclusion of certain hedging income from the REIT gross income tests to include income from hedges of previously acquired hedges that a REIT entered to manage risk associated with liabilities or property that have been extinguished or disposed.
For taxable years beginning before January 1, 2018, no more than 25% of the value of our assets may consist of stock or securities of one or more taxable REIT subsidiaries.  For taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017, the Act reduces this limit to 20%.  At this time, the securities we own in our taxable REIT subsidiaries do not, in the aggregate, exceed 20% of the total value of our assets.
For taxable years beginning after December 31, 2015, for purposes of the REIT asset tests, the Act provides that debt instruments issued by publicly offered REITs will constitute real estate assets.  However, unless such a debt instrument is secured by a mortgage or otherwise would have qualified as a real estate asset under prior law, (i) interest income and gain from such a debt instrument is not qualifying income for purposes of the 75% gross income test and (ii) all such debt instruments may represent no more than 25% of the value of our total assets.
For taxable years beginning after December 31, 2015, certain obligations secured by a mortgage on both real property and personal property will be treated as a qualifying real estate asset and give rise to qualifying income for purposes of the 75% gross income test if the fair market value of such personal property does not exceed 15% of the total fair market value of all such property.
A 100% excise tax is imposed on redetermined TRS service income, which is income of a taxable REIT subsidiary attributable to services provided to, or on behalf of its associated REIT and which would otherwise be increased on distribution, apportionment, or allocation under Section 482 of the Code.
60 Table of Contents  For distributions made in taxable years beginning after December 31, 2014, the preferential dividend rules no longer to apply to us.
Additional exceptions to the rules under the Foreign Investment in Real Property Act (FIRPTA) were introduced for non-U.S. persons that constitute qualified shareholders (within the meaning of Section 897(k)(3) of the Code) or qualified foreign pension funds (within the meaning of Section 897(l)(2) of the Code).
After February 16, 2016, the FIRPTA withholding rate under Section 1445 of the Code for dispositions of U.S. real property interests is increased from 10% to 15%.
The Act increases from 5% to 10% the maximum stock ownership of the REIT that a non-U.S. shareholder may hold to avail itself of the FIRPTA exception for shares regularly traded on an established securities market.
For assets we acquired from a C corporation in a carry-over basis transaction, the Act permanently reduces the recognition period during which we could be subject to corporate tax on any built-in gains recognized on the sale of such assets from 10 years to 5 years.
Forward-Looking Statements This Form10-K contains "forward-looking statements" as that term is defined under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. You can identify forward-looking statements by our use of the words "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "intend," "estimate," "assume," "project," "plan," "may," "shall," "will" and other similar expressions in this Form10-K, that predict or indicate future events and trends and that do not report historical matters. These statements include, among other things, statements regarding our intent, belief or expectations with respect to:  our potential development, redevelopment, acquisition or disposition of communities;  the timing and cost of completion of apartment communities under construction, reconstruction, development or redevelopment;  the timing of lease-up, occupancy and stabilization of apartment communities;  the pursuit of land on which we are considering future development;  the anticipated operating performance of our communities;  cost, yield, revenue, NOI and earnings estimates;  our declaration or payment of distributions;  our joint venture and discretionary fund activities;  our policies regarding investments, indebtedness, acquisitions, dispositions, financings and other matters;  our qualification as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code;  the real estate markets in Northern and Southern California and markets in selected states in the Mid-Atlantic, New England, Metro New York/New Jersey and Pacific Northwest regions of the United States and in general;  the availability of debt and equity financing;  interest rates;  general economic conditions including the potential impacts from current economic conditions;  trends affecting our financial condition or results of operations; and  the impact of legal proceedings relating to the Edgewater fire and related matters.
We cannot assure the future results or outcome of the matters described in these statements; rather, these statements merely reflect our current expectations of the approximate outcomes of the matters discussed. We do not undertake a duty to update these forward-looking statements, and therefore they may not represent our estimates and assumptions after the date of this report. You should not rely on forward-looking statements because they involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. These risks, uncertainties and other factors may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to differ materially from the anticipated future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by these forward-looking 61 Table of Contents statements. You should carefully review the discussion under Item1A. "Risk Factors" in this report for further discussion of risks associated with forward-looking statements.
Some of the factors that could cause our actual results, performance or achievements to differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, the following:  our expectations and assumptions as of the date of this filing regarding the outcome of investigations and/or legal proceedings resulting from the Edgewater fire, as well as the ultimate cost and timing of replacing the Edgewater building and achieving stabilized occupancy in the event the Company chooses to rebuild this community, are subject to change and could materially affect our current expectations regarding the impact of the fire on our business, financial condition and results of operations;  we may fail to secure development opportunities due to an inability to reach agreements with third parties to obtain land at attractive prices or to obtain desired zoning and other local approvals;  we may abandon or defer development opportunities for a number of reasons, including changes in local market conditions which make development less desirable, increases in costs of development, increases in the cost of capital or lack of capital availability, resulting in losses;  construction costs of a community may exceed our original estimates;  we may not complete construction and lease-up of communities under development or redevelopment on schedule, resulting in increased interest costs and construction costs and a decrease in our expected rental revenues;  occupancy rates and market rents may be adversely affected by competition and local economic and market conditions which are beyond our control;  financing may not be available on favorable terms or at all, and our cash flows from operations and access to cost effective capital may be insufficient for the development of our pipeline which could limit our pursuit of opportunities;  our cash flows may be insufficient to meet required payments of principal and interest, and we may be unable to refinance existing indebtedness or the terms of such refinancing may not be as favorable as the terms of existing indebtedness;  we may be unsuccessful in our management of Fund II, the U.S. Fund, the AC JV or the REIT vehicles that are used with each respective joint venture; and  we may be unsuccessful in managing changes in our portfolio composition.
Critical Accounting Policies The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to use judgment in the application of accounting policies, including making estimates and assumptions. If our judgment or interpretation of the facts and circumstances relating to various transactions had been different, or different assumptions were made, it is possible that different accounting policies would have been applied, resulting in different financial results or a different presentation of our financial statements. Below is a discussion of the accounting policies that we consider critical to an understanding of our financial condition and operating results that may require complex or significant judgment in their application or require estimates about matters which are inherently uncertain. A discussion of our significant accounting policies, including further discussion of the accounting policies described below, can be found in Note1, "Organization and Basis of Presentation," of our Consolidated Financial Statements.
Principles of Consolidation We may enter into various joint venture agreements with unrelated third parties to hold or develop real estate assets. We must determine for each of these ventures whether to consolidate the entity or account for our investment under the equity or cost basis of accounting.
We determine whether to consolidate certain entities based on our rights and obligations under the joint venture agreements, applying the applicable accounting guidance. For investment interests that we do not consolidate, we evaluate the guidance to determine the accounting framework to apply. The application of the rules in evaluating the accounting treatment for each joint venture is complex and requires substantial management judgment. Therefore, we believe the decision to choose an appropriate accounting framework is a critical accounting estimate.
If we were to consolidate the joint ventures that we accounted for using the equity method, excluding the Residual JV, at December31, 2015 , our assets would have increased by $1,232,958,000 and our liabilities would have increased by $967,676,000 .
62 Table of Contents We would be required to consolidate those joint ventures currently not consolidated for financial reporting purposes if the facts and circumstances changed, including but not limited to the following reasons, none of which are currently expected to occur:  For entities not considered to be variable interest entities, the nature of the entity changed such that it would be considered a variable interest entity and we were considered the primary beneficiary.
For entities in which we do not hold a controlling voting and/or variable interest, the contractual arrangement changed resulting in our investment interest being either a controlling voting and/or variable interest.
We evaluate our accounting for investments on a regular basis including when a significant change in the design of an entity occurs.
Cost Capitalization We capitalize costs during the development of assets. Capitalization begins when we determine that development of a future asset is probable and continues until the asset, or a portion of the asset, is delivered and is ready for its intended use. For redevelopment efforts, we capitalize costs either (i)in advance of taking apartment homes out of service when significant renovation of the common area has begun and continue until the redevelopment is completed, or (ii)when an apartment home is taken out of service for redevelopment and continue until the redevelopment is completed and the apartment home is available for a new resident. Rental income and operating expenses incurred during the initial lease-up or post-redevelopment lease-up period are fully recognized in earnings as they accrue. We defer external costs associated with originating new leases, recognizing the impact of these costs in earnings over the term of the lease.
During the development and redevelopment efforts we capitalize all direct costs and indirect costs which have been incurred as a result of the development and redevelopment activities. These costs include interest and related loan fees, property taxes as well as other direct and indirect costs. Interest is capitalized for any project-specific financing, as well as for general corporate financing to the extent of our aggregate investment in the projects. Indirect project costs, which include personnel and office and administrative costs that are clearly associated with our development and redevelopment efforts, are also capitalized. Capitalized indirect costs associated with our development and redevelopment activities are comprised primarily of compensation related costs for associates dedicated to our development and redevelopment efforts and total $43,943,000 , $37,433,000 and $38,128,000 for 2015 , 2014 and 2013 , respectively. The estimation of the direct and indirect costs to capitalize as part of our development and redevelopment activities requires judgment and, as such, we believe cost capitalization to be a critical accounting estimate.
There may be a change in our operating expenses in the event that there are changes in accounting guidance governing capitalization or changes to our levels of development or redevelopment activity. If changes in the accounting guidance limit our ability to capitalize costs or if we reduce our development and redevelopment activities without a corresponding decrease in indirect project costs, there may be an increase in our operating expenses. For example, if in 2015 our development activities decreased by 10%, and there were no corresponding decrease in our indirect project costs, our costs charged to expense would have increased by $4,394,000 .
We capitalize pre-development costs incurred in pursuit of Development Rights. These costs include legal fees, design fees and related overhead costs. Future development of these pursuits is dependent upon various factors, including zoning and regulatory approval, rental market conditions, construction costs and availability of capital. Pre-development costs incurred for pursuits for which future development is not yet considered probable are expensed as incurred. In addition, if the status of a Development Right changes, making future development no longer probable, any capitalized pre-development costs are written off with a charge to expense.
Due to the subjectivity in determining whether a pursuit will result in the development of an apartment community, and therefore should be capitalized, the accounting for pursuit costs is a critical accounting estimate. If we had determined that 10% of our capitalized pursuit costs were associated with Development Rights that were no longer probable of occurring, net income for the year ended December31, 2015 would have decreased by $3,758,000 .
Abandoned Pursuit Costs& Asset Impairment We evaluate our real estate and other long-lived assets for impairment when potential indicators of impairment exist. If events or circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of a property may not be recoverable, we assess its recoverability by comparing the carrying amount of the property to its estimated undiscounted future cash flows. If the carrying amount exceeds the aggregate undiscounted future cash flows, we recognize an impairment loss to the extent the carrying amount exceeds the estimated fair value of the property. We assess land held for development for impairment if our intent changes with respect to the development of the land. We evaluate our unconsolidated investments for impairment, considering both the carrying value of the investment, estimated to be the expected proceeds that it would receive if the entity were dissolved and the net assets were liquidated, as well as our proportionate share of any impairment of assets held by unconsolidated investments.
63 Table of Contents We expense costs related to abandoned pursuits, which include the abandonment of Development Rights and disposition pursuits. These costs can vary greatly, and the costs incurred in any given period may be significantly different in future years.
Our focus on value creation through real estate development presents an impairment risk in the event of a future deterioration of the real estate and/or capital markets or a decision by us to reduce or cease development. We cannot predict the occurrence of future events that may cause an impairment assessment to be performed, or the likelihood of any future impairment charges, if any. You should also review Item 1A. Risk Factors in this Form 10-K.
REIT Status We are a Maryland corporation that has elected to be treated, for federal income tax purposes, as a REIT. We elected to be taxed as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code for the year ended December31, 1994 and have not revoked such election. A corporate REIT is a legal entity which holds real estate interests and must meet a number of organizational and operational requirements, including a requirement that it currently distribute at least 90% of its adjusted taxable income to stockholders. As a REIT, we generally will not be subject to corporate level federal income tax on taxable income if we distribute 100% of our taxable income to our stockholders over time periods allowed under the Code. If we fail to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, we will be subject to federal and state income taxes at regular corporate rates (subject to any applicable alternative minimum tax) and may not be able to elect to qualify as a REIT for four subsequent taxable years. For example, if we failed to qualify as a REIT in 2015 , our net income would have decreased by approximately $298,299,000 .
Our qualification as a REIT requires management to exercise significant judgment and consideration with respect to operational matters and accounting treatment. Therefore, we believe our REIT status is a critical accounting estimate.
Acquisition of Investments in Real Estate We account for acquisitions of investments in real estate in accordance with the authoritative guidance for the initial measurement, which requires the identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed, and any noncontrolling interest in the acquiree to be recognized at fair value. Typical assets and liabilities acquired include land, building, furniture, fixtures and equipment and identified intangible assets and liabilities, consisting of the value of above-below market leases and in-place leases. In making estimates of fair values for purposes of allocating purchase price, we utilize various sources, including our own analysis of recently acquired and existing comparable properties in our portfolio and other market data.
64 Table of Contents ITEM 7A.QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK We are exposed to market risks from our financial instruments primarily from changes in market interest rates. We do not have exposure to any other significant market risk. We monitor interest rate risk as an integral part of our overall risk management, which recognizes the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to reduce the potentially adverse effect on our results of operations. Our operating results are affected by changes in interest rates, primarily in short-term LIBOR and the SIFMA index as a result of borrowings under our Credit Facility and outstanding bonds and unsecured notes with variable interest rates. In addition, the fair value of our fixed rate unsecured and secured notes are impacted by changes in market interest rates. The effect of interest rate fluctuations on our results of operations historically has been small relative to other factors affecting operating results, such as rental rates and occupancy.
We currently use interest rate protection agreements (consisting of interest rate swap and interest rate cap agreements) for our risk management objectives, as well as for compliance with the requirements of certain lenders, and not for trading or speculative purposes. During 2015, we entered into $600,000,000 of forward interest rate swap agreements to reduce the impact of variability in interest rates on a portion of the Company's expected debt issuance activity in 2016 and 2017. Through the date of this Form 10-K we entered into an additional $450,000,000 of forward interest rate swap agreements also to reduce the impact of variability in interest rates on a portion of the Company's expected debt issuance activity in 2016 and 2017. In addition, we have interest rate caps that serve to effectively limit the amount of interest rate expense we would incur on a floating rate borrowing. Further discussion of the financial instruments impacted and our exposure is presented below.
As of December31, 2015 and 2014 , we had $1,345,182,000 and $1,297,461,000 , respectively, in variable rate debt outstanding, with no amounts outstanding under our Credit Facility. If interest rates on the variable rate debt had been 100 basis points higher throughout 2015 and 2014 , our annual interest costs would have increased by approximately $14,492,000 and $13,035,000 , respectively, based on balances outstanding during the applicable years.
Because the counterparties providing the interest rate cap and swap agreements are major financial institutions which have an A or better credit rating by the Standard& Poor's Ratings Group and the current valuation of the position is a net liability for us, we do not believe there is exposure at this time to a default by a counterparty provider.
In addition, changes in interest rates affect the fair value of our fixed rate debt, computed using quoted market prices for our unsecured notes or a discounted cash flow model for our secured notes, considering our current market yields, which impacts the fair value of our aggregate indebtedness. Debt securities and notes payable (including amounts outstanding under our Credit Facility) with an aggregate carrying value of $6,481,291,000 at December31, 2015 had an estimated aggregate fair value of $6,368,758,000 at December31, 2015 . Contractual fixed rate debt represented $5,304,633,000 of the fair value at December31, 2015 . If interest rates had been 100 basis points higher as of December31, 2015 , the fair value of this fixed rate debt would have decreased by approximately $368,234,000 .
ITEM 8.FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA The response to this Item8 is included as a separate section of this Annual Report on Form10-K.
ITEM 9.CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE None.
ITEM 9A.CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES (a) Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures. As required by Rule13a-15 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as of the end of the period covered by this report, the Company carried out an evaluation under the supervision and with the participation of the Company's management, including the Company's Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of the Company's disclosure controls and procedures. Based upon that evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that the Company's disclosure controls and procedures are effective to ensure that information required to be disclosed by the Company in the reports it files or submits under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the Securities and Exchange Commission's rules and forms. We continue to review and document our disclosure controls and procedures, including our internal controls and procedures for financial reporting, and may from time to time make changes aimed at enhancing their effectiveness and to ensure that our systems evolve with our business.
(b) Management's Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, as such term is defined in Exchange Act Rules13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f). Under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our 65 Table of Contents Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, we conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December31, 2015 based on the framework in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). Based on that evaluation, our management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December31, 2015 .
Our internal control over financial reporting as of December31, 2015 has been audited by Ernst& YoungLLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in their report which is included elsewhere herein.
(c) Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. There was no change in our internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the fourth quarter of the period covered by this Annual Report on Form10-K that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.
ITEM 9B.OTHER INFORMATION None.
66 Table of Contents PART III ITEM 10.DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The information required by Item10 pertaining to directors and executive officers of the Company and the Company's Code of Conduct is incorporated herein by reference to the Company's Proxy Statement to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission within 120days after the end of the year covered by this Form10-K with respect to the Annual Meeting of Stockholders scheduled to be held on May 19, 2016 .
ITEM 11.EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION The information required by Item11 pertaining to executive compensation is incorporated herein by reference to the Company's Proxy Statement to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission within 120days after the end of the year covered by this Form10-K with respect to the Annual Meeting of Stockholders scheduled to be held on May 19, 2016 .
ITEM 12.SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS The information required by Item12 pertaining to security ownership of management and certain beneficial owners of the Company's common stock is incorporated herein by reference to the Company's Proxy Statement to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission within 120days after the end of the year covered by this Form10-K with respect to the Annual Meeting of Stockholders scheduled to be held on May 19, 2016 , to the extent not set forth below.
The Company maintains the 2009 Stock Option and Incentive Plan (the "2009 Plan") and the 1996 Non-Qualified Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the "ESPP"), pursuant to which common stock or other equity awards may be issued or granted to eligible persons.
The following table gives information about equity awards under the 2009 Plan, the Company's prior 1994 Stock Option and Incentive Plan (the "1994 Plan") under which awards were previously made, and the ESPP as of December31, 2015 : (a) (b) (c) Plan category Number of securities to be issued upon exercise of outstanding options, warrants and rights Weighted-average exercise price of outstanding options, warrants and rights Number of securities remaining available for future issuance under equity compensation plans (excluding securities reflectedincolumn(a)) Equity compensation plans approved by security holders (1) 862,359 (2) $ 117.48 (3) 1,364,678 Equity compensation plans not approved by security holders (4)  N/A 704,160 Total 862,359 $ 117.48 (3) 2,068,838 _________________________________ (1) Consists of the 2009 Plan and the 1994 Plan.
(2) Includes 54,454 deferred units granted under the 2009 Plan and the 1994 Plan, which, subject to vesting requirements, will convert in the future to common stock on a one-for-one basis. Also includes the maximum number of shares that may be issued upon settlement of outstanding Performance Awards awarded to officers and maturing on December31, 2015 , 2016 and 2017 . Does not include 246,231 shares of restricted stock that are outstanding and that are already reflected in the Company's outstanding shares.
(3) Excludes performance awards and deferred units granted under the 2009 Plan and the 1994 Plan, which, subject to vesting requirements, will convert in the future to common stock on a one-for-one basis.
(4) Consists of the ESPP.
The ESPP, which was adopted by the Board of Dir ectors on October29, 1996, has not been approved by our shareholders. A further description of the ESPP appears in Note9, "Stock-Based Compensation Plans," of our Consolidated Financial Statements included in this report.
67 Table of Contents ITEM 13.CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE The information required by Item13 pertaining to certain relationships and related transactions is incorporated herein by reference to the Company's Proxy Statement to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission within 120days after the end of the year covered by this Form10-K with respect to the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on May 19, 2016 .
ITEM 14.PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES The information required by Item14 pertaining to the fees paid to and services provided by the Company's principal accountant is incorporated herein by reference to the Company's Proxy Statement to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission within 120days after the end of the year covered by this Form10-K with respect to the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on May 19, 2016 .
68 Table of Contents PART IV ITEM 15.EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE 15(a)(1) Financial Statements Index to Financial Statements Consolidated Financial Statements and Financial Statement Schedule: Reports of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm F-1 Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December31, 2015 and 2014 F-3 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income for the years ended December31, 2015, 2014 and 2013 F-4 Consolidated Statements of Equity for the years ended December31, 2015, 2014 and 2013 F-5 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended December31, 2015, 2014 and 2013 F-6 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements F-9 15(a)(2) Financial Statement Schedule ScheduleIIIReal Estate and Accumulated Depreciation F-39 All other schedules for which provision is made in the applicable accounting regulation of the Securities and Exchange Commission are not required under the related instructions or are inapplicable and therefore have been omitted.
15(a)(3) Exhibits The exhibits listed on the accompanying Index to Exhibits are filed as a part of this report.
69 Table of Contents INDEX TO EXHIBITS 3(i).1  Articles of Amendment and Restatement of Articles of Incorporation of the Company, dated as of June4, 1998. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit3(i) to Form10-K of the Company filed March1, 2007.) 3(i).2  Articles of Amendment, dated as of October2, 1998. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit3(i).2 to Form10-K of the Company filed March1, 2007.) 3(i).3  Articles of Amendment, dated as of May22, 2013. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit3(i).3 to Form8-K of the Company filed on May22, 2013.) 3(ii).1  Amended and Restated Bylaws of the Company, as adopted by the Board of Directors on November 12, 2015. (Filed herewith.) 4.1  Indenture for Senior Debt Securities, dated as of January16, 1998, between the Company and State Street Bank and Trust Company, as Trustee. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit4.1 to Registration Statement on FormS-3 of the Company (File No.333-139839), filed January8, 2007.) 4.2  First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of January20, 1998, between the Company and State Street Bank and Trust Company as Trustee. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit4.2 to Registration Statement on FormS-3 of the Company (File No.333-139839), filed January8, 2007.) 4.3  Second Supplemental Indenture, dated as of July7, 1998, between the Company and State Street Bank and Trust Company as Trustee. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit4.3 to Registration Statement on FormS-3 of the Company (File No.333-139839), filed January8, 2007.) 4.4  Amended and Restated Third Supplemental Indenture, dated as of July10, 2000 between the Company and State Street Bank and Trust Company as Trustee. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit4.4 to Registration Statement on FormS-3 of the Company (File No.333-139839), filed January8, 2007.) 4.5  Fourth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of September18, 2006, between the Company and U.S. Bank National Association as Trustee. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit4.5 to Registration Statement on FormS-3 of the Company (File No.333-139839), filed January8, 2007.) 4.6 __ Fifth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of November 21, 2014, between the Company and the Bank of New York Mellon, as Trustee.  (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to Form 8-K of the Company filed on November 21, 2014.) 4.7  Dividend Reinvestment and Stock Purchase Plan of the Company. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit8.1 to Registration Statement on FormS-3 of the Company (File No.333-87063), filed September14, 1999.) 4.8  Amendment to the Company's Dividend Reinvestment and Stock Purchase Plan filed on December17, 1999. (Incorporated by reference to the Prospectus Supplement filed pursuant to Rule424(b)(2) of the Securities Act of 1933 on December17, 1999.) 4.9  Amendment to the Company's Dividend Reinvestment and Stock Purchase Plan filed on March26, 2004. (Incorporated by reference to the Prospectus Supplement filed pursuant to Rule424(b)(3) of the Securities Act of 1933 on March26, 2004.) 4.10  Amendment to the Company's Dividend Reinvestment and Stock Purchase Plan filed on May15, 2006. (Incorporated by reference to the Prospectus Supplement filed pursuant to Rule424(b)(3) of the Securities Act of 1933 on May15, 2006.) 10.1  Master Cross-Collateralization Agreement, dated as of April24, 2009, between Deutsche Bank Berkshire Mortgage,Inc., parties identified on ExhibitA-Schedule1 attached thereto, and Shady Grove Financing,LLC. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit10.2 to Form10-Q of the Company filed August10, 2009.) 10.2  Master Substitution Agreement, dated April23, 2009, between Deutsche Bank Berkshire Mortgage,Inc., AvalonBay Traville,LLC and the entities identified on ScheduleB attached thereto. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit10.3 to Form10-Q of the Company filed August10, 2009.) 70 Table of Contents 10.3  Form of Multifamily Note, dated April24, 2009. (Used in connection with the properties identified on ExhibitB to the Master Cross-Collateralization Agreement dated April24, 2009.) (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit10.4 to Form10-Q of the Company filed August10, 2009.) 10.4  Form of Guaranty, dated April24, 2009. (Used in connection with the properties identified on ExhibitB to the Master Cross-Collateralization Agreement dated April24, 2009.) (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit10.5 to Form10-Q of the Company filed August10, 2009.) 10.5+  Endorsement Split Dollar Agreements and Amendments thereto with Messrs.Naughton and Horey. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit10.8 to Form10-K of the Company filed February23, 2011.) 10.6+  Form of Amendment to Endorsement Split Dollar Agreement with Messrs.Naughton and Horey. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit10.4 to Form10-K of the Company filed March2, 2009.) 10.7+  Employment Agreement between the Company and Timothy J. Naughton, dated as of December16, 2011. (Expired December 31, 2015.) (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit10.1 to Form8-K of the Company filed December21, 2011.) 10.8+  Employment Agreement between the Company and Leo S. Horey dated as of December16, 2011. (Expired December 31, 2015.) (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit10.3 to Form8-K of the Company filed December21, 2011.) 10.9+  AvalonBay Communities,Inc. Amended and Restated 2009 Stock Option and Incentive Plan. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit99.1 to Form8-K of the Company filed February 16, 2016.) 10.10+  Form of Incentive Stock Option Agreement (2009 Stock Option and Incentive Plan). (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit10.1 to Registration Statement on FormS-8 of the Company filed May22, 2009.) 10.11+  Form of Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement (2009 Stock Option and Incentive Plan). (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit10.2 to Registration Statement on FormS-8 of the Company filed May22, 2009.) 10.12+  Form of Stock Grant and Restricted Stock Agreement (2009 Stock Option and Incentive Plan). (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit10.3 to Registration Statement on FormS-8 of the Company filed May22, 2009.) 10.13+  Form of Stock Grant and Restricted Stock Agreement adopted February 11, 2016 (2009 Stock Option and Incentive Plan). (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.3 to Form 8-K of the Company filed February 16, 2016.) 10.14+  Form of Director Restricted Stock Agreement (2009 Stock Option and Incentive Plan). (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit10.4 to Registration Statement on FormS-8 of the Company filed May22, 2009.) 10.15+  Form of Director Restricted Unit Agreement (2009 Stock Option and Incentive Plan). (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit10.5 to Registration Statement on FormS-8 of the Company filed May22, 2009.) 10.16+  Form of Indemnity Agreement between the Company and its Directors. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.19 to Form 10-K of the Company filed February 19, 2015.) 10.17+  The Company's Officer Severance Plan, as amended and restated on February 11, 2016. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit99.2 to Form8-K of the Company filed February 16, 2016.) 71 Table of Contents 10.18+  AvalonBay Communities,Inc. 1994 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended and restated in full on December8, 2004. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit10.21 to Form10-K of the Company filed March2, 2009.) 10.19+  Amendment dated February9, 2006, to the AvalonBay Communities,Inc. 1994 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended and restated on December8, 2004. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit10.23 to Form10-K of the Company filed February22, 2013.) 10.20+  Amendment, dated December6, 2006, to the AvalonBay Communities,Inc. 1994 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended and restated on December8, 2004. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit10.24 to Form10-K of the Company filed February22, 2013.) 10.21+  Amendment, dated September20, 2007, to the AvalonBay Communities,Inc. 1994 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended and restated on December8, 2004. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit10.25 to Form10-K of the Company filed February22, 2013.) 10.22+  Form of AvalonBay Communities,Inc. Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement (1994 Stock Incentive Plan, as Amended and Restated). (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit10.26 to Form10-K of the Company filed February22, 2013.) 10.23+  Form of AvalonBay Communities,Inc. Incentive Stock Option Agreement (1994 Stock Incentive Plan, as Amended and Restated.) (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit10.27 to Form10-K of the Company filed February22, 2013.) 10.24+  Form of AvalonBay Communities,Inc. Employee Stock Grant and Restricted Stock Agreement (1994 Stock Incentive Plan, as Amended and Restated.) (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit10.33 to Form10-K of the Company filed March2, 2009.) 10.25+  Form of AvalonBay Communities,Inc. Director Restricted Unit Agreement (1994 Stock Incentive Plan, as Amended and Restated). (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit10.29 to Form10-K of the Company filed February22, 2013.) 10.26+  Form of AvalonBay Communities,Inc. Director Restricted Stock Agreement (1994 Stock Incentive Plan, as Amended and Restated). (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit10.30 to Form10-K of the Company filed February22, 2013.) 10.27  Third Amended and Restated Revolving Loan Agreement, dated as of September29, 2011, with Bank of America, N.A., as administrative agent, swing lender, issuing bank and a bank, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as a bank and as syndication agent, Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas, Morgan Stanley Bank and Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., each as a bank and as documentation agent, Barclays BankPLC as a bank and as co-documentation agent, UBS SecuritiesLLC as a co-documentation agent, The Bank of New York Mellon, BBVA Compass Bank, PNC Bank, National Association, and Suntrust Bank, each as a bank and as a managing agent, Branch Banking and Trust Company, Bank of Tokyo Mitsubishi UFJ,Ltd., and Citizens Bank, each as a bank and as a co-agent, and the other bank parties signatory thereto (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit10.1 to Form10-Q of the Company filed November7, 2011.) 10.28  Amendment No.1 to Third Amended and Restated Revolving Loan Agreement, dated as of December20, 2012, among the Company, as Borrower, the banks signatory thereto, each as a Bank, and Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit10.1 to Form8-K of the Company, filed December21, 2012.) 10.29+  Rules and Procedures for Non-Employee Directors' Deferred Compensation Program, as adopted on November20, 2006, as amended on December11, 2008, February10, 2010 and November10, 2010. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit10.49 to Form10-K of the Company filed February23, 2011.) 10.30+  Amended and Restated AvalonBay Communities,Inc. Deferred Compensation Plan, effective as of January1, 2011. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit10.1 to Form10-Q of the Company filed August6, 2010.) 10.31+  Retirement Agreement between the Company and Thomas J. Sargeant dated as of May 20, 2014. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.36 to Form 10-K on the Company filed February 19, 2015.) 72 Table of Contents 10.32+  Form of AvalonBay Communities,Inc. Award Terms of Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit10.1 to Form10-Q filed May10, 2013.) 10.33+  Form of AvalonBay Communities, Inc. Award Terms of Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Form 10-Q filed May 4, 2015.) 10.34+  Form of AvalonBay Communities, Inc. Award Terms of Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units, approved February 11, 2016. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.4 to Form 8-K of the Company filed February 16, 2016.) 10.35  Archstone Residual JV,LLC Limited Liability Company Agreement. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit10.3 to Form8-K of the Company filed March5, 2013.) 10.36  Archstone Parallel Residual JV,LLC Limited Liability Company Agreement. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit10.4 to Form8-K of the Company filed March5, 2013.) 10.37  Archstone Parallel Residual JV 2,LLC Limited Liability Company Agreement. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit10.5 to Form8-K of the Company filed March5, 2013.) 10.38  Legacy Holdings JV,LLC Limited Liability Company Agreement. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit10.6 to Form8-K of the Company filed March5, 2013.) 10.39  Master Credit Facility Agreement, dated February27, 2013, by and among Federal National Mortgage Association and the parties named therein. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit10.7 to Form8-K of the Company filed March5, 2013.) 10.40 --- Term Loan Agreement, dated March31, 2014, among the Company, as Borrower, Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as Administrative Agent and a bank, PNC Bank, National Association, as Syndication Agent and a bank, and a syndicate of other financial institutions, serving as banks. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Form 8-K of the Company filed April 2, 2014.) 12.1  Statements re: Computation of Ratios. (Filed herewith.) 21.1  Schedule of Subsidiaries of the Company. (Filed herewith.) 23.1  Consent of Ernst& YoungLLP. (Filed herewith.) 31.1  Certification pursuant to Section302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (Chief Executive Officer). (Filed herewith.) 31.2  Certification pursuant to Section302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (Chief Financial Officer). (Filed herewith.) 32  Certification pursuant to Section906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer). (Furnished herewith.) 101  XBRL (Extensible Business Reporting Language). The following materials from AvalonBay Communities,Inc.'s Annual Report on Form10-K for the year ended December31, 2015, formatted in XBRL: (i)consolidated balance sheets, (ii)consolidated statements of operations, (iii)consolidated statements of cash flows, (iv)consolidated changes in stockholders' equity, and (v)notes to consolidated financial statements.
_______________________________________________________________________________ + Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement required to be filed or incorporated by reference as an exhibit to this Form10-K pursuant to Item15(a)(3) of Form10-K.
73 Table of Contents SIGNATURES Pursuant to the requirements of Section13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
AvalonBay Communities,Inc.
Date: February25, 2016 By: /s/TIMOTHY J. NAUGHTON Timothy J. Naughton, Director, Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President (Principal Executive Officer) Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.
Date: February25, 2016 By: /s/TIMOTHY J. NAUGHTON Timothy J. Naughton, Director, Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President (Principal Executive Officer) Date: February25, 2016 By: /s/KEVIN P. OSHEA Kevin P. OShea, Chief Financial Officer (Principal Financial Officer) Date: February25, 2016 By: /s/KERI A. SHEA Keri A. Shea, Senior Vice PresidentFinance& Treasurer (Principal Accounting Officer) Date: February25, 2016 By: /s/GLYN F. AEPPEL Glyn F. Aeppel, Director Date: February25, 2016 By: /s/ TERRY S. BROWN Terry S. Brown, Director Date: February25, 2016 By: /s/ALAN B. BUCKELEW Alan B. Buckelew, Director Date: February25, 2016 By: /s/RONALD L. HAVNER, JR.
Ronald L. Havner, Jr., Director Date: February25, 2016 By: /s/JOHN J. HEALY, JR.
John J. Healy, Jr., Director Date: February25, 2016 By: /s/LANCE R. PRIMIS Lance R. Primis, Director Date: February25, 2016 By: /s/PETER S. RUMMELL Peter S. Rummell, Director Date: February25, 2016 By: /s/H. JAY SARLES H. Jay Sarles, Director Date: February25, 2016 By: /s/W. EDWARD WALTER W. Edward Walter, Director 74 Table of Contents Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm The Board of Directors and Stockholders of AvalonBay Communities, Inc.: We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of AvalonBay Communities, Inc. as of December 31, 2015 and 2014, and the related consolidated statements of comprehensive income, stockholders' equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2015. Our audits also included the financial statement schedule listed in the Index at Item 15(a)(2). These financial statements and schedule are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements and schedule based on our audits.
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of AvalonBay Communities, Inc. at December 31, 2015 and 2014, and the consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2015, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Also, in our opinion, the related financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly in all material respects, the information set forth therein.
As discussed in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company changed its method for reporting discontinued operations effective January 1, 2014.
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), AvalonBay Communities, Inc.s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2015, based on criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 framework) and our report dated February25, 2016 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.
/s/ Ernst & Young LLP McLean, Virginia February25, 2016 F-1 Table of Contents Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting The Board of Directors and Stockholders of AvalonBay Communities, Inc.: We have audited AvalonBay Communities, Inc.s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2015, based on criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 framework) (the COSO criteria). AvalonBay Communities, Inc.s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting included in the accompanying Managements Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting in Item 9A. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the companys internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.
We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
A companys internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A companys internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the companys assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
In our opinion, AvalonBay Communities, Inc. maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2015, based on the COSO criteria.
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheets of AvalonBay Communities, Inc. as of December 31, 2015 and 2014, and the related consolidated statements of comprehensive income, stockholders equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2015 of AvalonBay Communities, Inc. and our report dated February25, 2016 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.
/s/ Ernst & Young LLP McLean, Virginia February25, 2016 F-2 Table of Contents AVALONBAY COMMUNITIES,INC.
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (Dollars in thousands, except per share data) 12/31/15 12/31/14 ASSETS Real estate: Land and improvements $ 3,636,761 $ 3,413,641 Buildings and improvements 13,056,292 12,191,883 Furniture, fixtures and equipment 458,224 400,720 17,151,277 16,006,244 Less accumulated depreciation (3,303,751 ) (2,847,058 ) Net operating real estate 13,847,526 13,159,186 Construction in progress, including land 1,592,917 1,417,107 Land held for development 484,377 180,516 Operating real estate assets held for sale, net 17,489 178,931 Total real estate, net 15,942,309 14,935,740 Cash and cash equivalents 400,507 509,460 Cash in escrow 104,821 95,625 Resident security deposits 30,077 29,617 Investments in unconsolidated real estate entities 216,919 298,315 Deferred development costs 37,577 67,029 Prepaid expenses and other assets 199,095 204,792 Total assets $ 16,931,305 $ 16,140,578 LIABILITIES AND EQUITY Unsecured notes, net $ 3,845,674 $ 2,975,533 Variable rate unsecured credit facility   Mortgage notes payable, net 2,611,274 3,514,174 Dividends payable 171,257 153,207 Construction payables 98,802 101,916 Accrued expenses and other liabilities 260,005 244,117 Accrued interest payable 40,085 41,635 Resident security deposits 53,132 48,826 Liabilities related to real estate assets held for sale 553 2,000 Total liabilities 7,080,782 7,081,408 Commitments and contingencies Redeemable noncontrolling interests 9,997 12,765 Equity: Preferred stock, $0.01 par value; $25 liquidation preference; 50,000,000 shares authorized at December 31, 2015 and 2014; zero shares issued and outstanding at December 31, 2015 and 2014   Common stock, $0.01 par value; 280,000,000 shares authorized at December 31, 2015 and 2014; 137,002,031 and 132,050,382 shares issued and outstanding at December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively 1,370 1,320 Additional paid-in capital 10,068,532 9,354,685 Accumulated earnings less dividends (197,989 ) (267,085 ) Accumulated other comprehensive loss (31,387 ) (42,515 ) Total equity 9,840,526 9,046,405 Total liabilities and equity $ 16,931,305 $ 16,140,578 See accompanying notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
F-3 Table of Contents AVALONBAY COMMUNITIES,INC.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (Dollars in thousands, except per share data) For the year ended 12/31/15 12/31/14 12/31/13 Revenue: Rental and other income $ 1,846,081 $ 1,674,011 $ 1,451,419 Management, development and other fees 9,947 11,050 11,502 Total revenue 1,856,028 1,685,061 1,462,921 Expenses: Operating expenses, excluding property taxes 448,747 410,672 352,245 Property taxes 193,499 178,634 158,774 Interest expense, net 175,615 180,618 172,402 (Gain) loss on extinguishment of debt, net (26,736 ) 412 14,921 Loss on interest rate contract   51,000 Depreciation expense 477,923 442,682 560,215 General and administrative expense 42,396 41,425 39,573 Expensed acquisition, development and other pursuit costs, net of recoveries 6,822 (3,717 ) 45,050 Casualty (gain) loss and impairment loss, net (10,542 )   Total expenses 1,307,724 1,250,726 1,394,180 Equity in income (loss) of unconsolidated entities 70,018 148,766 (11,154 ) Gain on sale of real estate 9,647 490 240 Gain on sale of communities 115,625 84,925  Income from continuing operations before taxes 743,594 668,516 57,827 Income tax expense 1,861 9,368  Income from continuing operations 741,733 659,148 57,827 Discontinued operations: Income from discontinued operations  310 16,713 Gain on sale of discontinued operations  37,869 278,231 Total discontinued operations  38,179 294,944 Net income 741,733 697,327 352,771 Net loss (income) attributable to noncontrolling interests 305 (13,760 ) 370 Net income attributable to common stockholders $ 742,038 $ 683,567 $ 353,141 Other comprehensive income: Unrealized gain (loss) on cash flow hedges 5,354 (121 )  Cash flow hedge losses reclassified to earnings 5,774 6,237 59,376 Comprehensive income $ 753,166 $ 689,683 $ 412,517 Earnings per common sharebasic: Income from continuing operations attributable to common stockholders $ 5.54 $ 4.93 $ 0.46 Discontinued operations attributable to common stockholders  0.29 2.32 Net income attributable to common stockholders $ 5.54 $ 5.22 $ 2.78 Earnings per common sharediluted: Income from continuing operations attributable to common stockholders $ 5.51 $ 4.92 $ 0.46 Discontinued operations attributable to common stockholders  0.29 2.32 Net income attributable to common stockholders $ 5.51 $ 5.21 $ 2.78 See accompanying notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
F-4 Table of Contents AVALONBAY COMMUNITIES,INC.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EQUITY (Dollars in thousands) Shares issued Additional paid-in capital Accumulated earnings less dividends Accumulated other comprehensive loss Total AvalonBay stockholders' equity Preferred stock Common stock Preferred stock Common stock Noncontrolling interests Total equity Balance at December 31, 2012  114,403,472 $  $ 1,144 $ 7,086,407 $ (142,329 ) $ (108,007 ) $ 6,837,215 $ 3,578 $ 6,840,793 Net income attributable to common stockholders      353,141  353,141  353,141 Cash flow hedge losses reclassified to earnings       59,376 59,376  59,376 Change in redemption value of redeemable noncontrolling interest      (1,246 )  (1,246 )  (1,246 ) Noncontrolling interest consolidation and income allocation     1,515   1,515 17 1,532 Dividends declared to common stockholders      (553,829 )  (553,829 )  (553,829 ) Issuance of common stock, net of withholdings  15,013,223  150 1,873,792 (991 )  1,872,951  1,872,951 Amortization of deferred compensation     27,009   27,009  27,009 Balance at December 31, 2013  129,416,695  1,294 8,988,723 (345,254 ) (48,631 ) 8,596,132 3,595 8,599,727 Net income attributable to common stockholders      683,567  683,567  683,567 Unrealized loss on cash flow hedges       (121 ) (121 )  (121 ) Cash flow hedge losses reclassified to earnings       6,237 6,237  6,237 Change in redemption value of noncontrolling interest      3,709  3,709  3,709 Noncontrolling interests income allocation         14,221 14,221 Noncontrolling interests derecognition         (17,816 ) (17,816 ) Dividends declared to common stockholders      (608,709 )  (608,709 )  (608,709 ) Issuance of common stock, net of withholdings  2,633,687  26 339,186 (398 )  338,814  338,814 Amortization of deferred compensation     26,776   26,776  26,776 Balance at December 31, 2014  132,050,382  1,320 9,354,685 (267,085 ) (42,515 ) 9,046,405  9,046,405 Net income attributable to common stockholders      742,038  742,038  742,038 Unrealized gain on cash flow hedges       5,354 5,354  5,354 Cash flow hedge losses reclassified to earnings       5,774 5,774  5,774 Change in redemption value and acquisition of noncontrolling interest     (1,088 ) 2,053  965  965 Dividends declared to common stockholders      (673,670 )  (673,670 )  (673,670 ) Issuance of common stock, net of withholdings  4,951,649  50 688,677 (1,325 )  687,402  687,402 Amortization of deferred compensation     26,258   26,258  26,258 Balance at December 31, 2015  137,002,031 $  $ 1,370 $ 10,068,532 $ (197,989 ) $ (31,387 ) $ 9,840,526 $  $ 9,840,526 See accompanying notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
F-5 Table of Contents AVALONBAY COMMUNITIES, INC CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (Dollars in thousands) For the year ended 12/31/15 12/31/14 12/31/13 Cash flows from operating activities: Net income $ 741,733 $ 697,327 $ 352,771 Adjustments to reconcile net income to cash provided by operating activities: Depreciation expense 477,923 442,682 560,215 Depreciation expense from discontinued operations   13,500 Amortization of deferred financing costs 6,871 6,383 6,803 Amortization of debt premium (24,261 ) (34,961 ) (29,750 ) (Gain) loss on extinguishment of debt, net (26,736 ) 412 14,921 Amortization of stock-based compensation 15,321 13,927 15,160 Equity in loss of, and return on, unconsolidated entities and noncontrolling interests, net of eliminations 12,225 4,906 33,125 Casualty (gain) loss and impairment loss, net (17,303 )   Abandonment of development pursuits  1,455  Cash flow hedge losses reclassified to earnings 5,774 6,237 59,376 Gain on sale of real estate assets (158,852 ) (255,300 ) (278,471 ) (Increase) decrease in cash in operating escrows (11,837 ) 55 (28,960 ) Decrease (increase) in resident security deposits, prepaid expenses and other assets 12,783 (3,441 ) (5,372 ) Increase in accrued expenses, other liabilities and accrued interest payable 23,113 6,959 10,997 Net cash provided by operating activities 1,056,754 886,641 724,315 Cash flows from investing activities: Development/redevelopment of real estate assets including land acquisitions and deferred development costs (1,569,326 ) (1,241,832 ) (1,285,715 ) Acquisition of real estate assets, including partnership interest  (47,000 ) (839,469 ) Capital expenditures - existing real estate assets (48,170 ) (46,902 ) (24,415 ) Capital expenditures - non-real estate assets (7,695 ) (5,923 ) (2,200 ) Proceeds from sale of real estate, net of selling costs 282,163 297,466 919,682 Insurance recoveries for property damage claims 44,142   Mortgage note receivable payment  21,748  (Decrease) increase in payables for construction (3,230 ) 7,400 34,779 Distributions from unconsolidated real estate entities 109,181 203,945 42,955 Investments in unconsolidated real estate entities (6,582 ) (5,662 ) (26,791 ) Net cash used in investing activities (1,199,517 ) (816,760 ) (1,181,174 ) Cash flows from financing activities: Issuance of common stock, net 690,184 346,134 4,703 Dividends paid (655,248 ) (593,643 ) (526,050 ) Issuance of mortgage notes payable  53,000 84,928 Repayments of mortgage notes payable, including prepayment penalties (850,963 ) (32,859 ) (2,110,347 ) Settlement of interest rate contract   (51,000 ) Issuance of unsecured notes 873,088 550,000 750,000 Repayment of unsecured notes  (150,000 ) (100,000 ) Payment of deferred financing costs (7,343 ) (7,820 ) (10,100 ) Redemption of noncontrolling interest and units for cash by minority partners (1,088 )  (1,965 ) Distributions to DownREIT partnership unitholders (38 ) (26 ) (32 ) Distributions to joint venture and profit-sharing partners (372 ) (262 ) (317 ) Redemption of preferred interest obligation (14,410 ) (6,300 ) (35,224 ) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities 33,810 158,224 (1,995,404 ) Net (decrease) increase in cash and cash equivalents (108,953 ) 228,105 (2,452,263 ) Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of year 509,460 281,355 2,733,618 Cash and cash equivalents, end of year $ 400,507 $ 509,460 $ 281,355 Cash paid during the year for interest, net of amount capitalized $ 188,782 $ 191,966 $ 179,325 See accompanying notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
F-6 Table of Contents Supplemental disclosures of non-cash investing and financing activities: During the year ended December31, 2015 :  As described in Note 4, Equity, 157,779 shares of common stock were issued as part of the Company's stock based compensation plans, of which 95,826 shares related to the conversion of performance awards to restricted shares, and the remaining 61,953 shares valued at $10,720,000 were issued in connection with new stock grants; 46,589 shares valued at $3,552,000 at the grant date, were issued in conjunction with the conversion of deferred stock awards; 2,142 shares valued at $372,000 were issued through the Companys dividend reinvestment plan; 45,090 shares valued at $5,979,000 were withheld to satisfy employees tax withholding and other liabilities; and 1,529 restricted shares as well as performance awards with an aggregate value of $726,000 previously issued in connection with employee compensation were canceled upon forfeiture.
Common stock dividends declared but not paid totaled $171,257,000 .
The Company recorded a decrease of $2,053,000 in redeemable noncontrolling interest with a corresponding increase to accumulated earnings less dividends to adjust the redemption value associated with the put options held by joint venture partners and DownREIT partnership units. For further discussion of the nature and valuation of these items, see Note 11, Fair Value.
The Company recorded an increase in prepaid expenses and other assets and a corresponding gain to other comprehensive income of $5,354,000 , and reclassified $5,774,000 of cash flow hedge losses from other comprehensive income to interest expense, net, to record the impact of the Companys derivative and hedge accounting activity.
As discussed in Note 1, "Organization and Basis of Presentation, Casualty Gains and Losses," the Company recognized a charge of $26,039,000 to write off the net book value of the fixed assets destroyed by the Edgewater fire and winter storm damage.
The Company recognized a capital lease associated with a parking garage adjacent to a Development Community, recording a capital lease obligation of $3,299,000 in accrued expenses and other liabilities, with a corresponding asset to buildings and improvements.
During the year ended December31, 2014 :  The Company issued 115,163 shares of common stock were issued as part of the Company's stock based compensation plan, of which 16,209 shares related to the conversion of performance awards to restricted shares, and the remaining 98,954 shares valued at $12,799,000 were issued in connection with new stock grants; 2,434 shares valued at $335,000 were issued through the Companys dividend reinvestment plan; 55,523 shares valued at $4,746,000 were withheld to satisfy employees tax withholding and other liabilities; and 7,970 restricted shares as well as performance awards with an aggregate value of $2,938,000 previously issued in connection with employee compensation were canceled upon forfeiture.
Common dividends declared but not paid totaled $153,207,000 .
The Company recorded a decrease of $3,709,000 in redeemable noncontrolling interest with a corresponding increase to accumulated earnings less dividends to adjust the redemption value associated with the put options held by joint venture partners and DownREIT partnership units. For further discussion of the nature and valuation of these items, see Note 11, Fair Value.
The Company recorded a decrease in prepaid expenses and other assets and a corresponding loss to other comprehensive income of $121,000 , and reclassified $6,237,000 of deferred cash flow hedge losses from other comprehensive income to interest expense, net, to record the impact of the Companys derivative and hedge accounting activity.
The Company derecognized $17,816,000 in noncontrolling interest in conjunction with the deconsolidation of a Fund I subsidiary.
During the year ended December31, 2013 :  The Company issued 14,889,706 shares of common stock valued at $1,875,210,000 as partial consideration for the Archstone Acquisition (as defined in this Form 10-K); 123,977 shares of common stock valued at $16,019,000 were issued in connection with stock grants; 2,002 shares valued at $269,000 were issued through the Company's dividend reinvestment plan; 48,310 shares valued at $6,127,000 were withheld to satisfy employees' tax withholding and other liabilities; and 7,653 shares and certain options valued at $1,105,000 previously issued in connection with employee F-7 Table of Contents compensation were canceled upon forfeiture. In addition, the Company granted 215,230 options for common stock at a value of $5,768,000 .
The Company reclassified $5,892,000 of deferred cash flow hedge losses from other comprehensive income to interest expense, net, and $53,484,000 to loss on interest rate contract, to record the impact of the Company's derivative and hedge accounting activity.
Common stock dividends declared but not paid totaled $138,476,000 .
The Company recorded $13,262,000 in redeemable noncontrolling interests associated with consolidated joint ventures acquired as part of the Archstone Acquisition. The Company also recorded an increase of $1,246,000 in redeemable noncontrolling interest with a corresponding decrease to accumulated earnings less dividends to adjust the redemption value associated with the put options held by joint venture partners and DownREIT partnership units.
The Company assumed secured indebtedness with a principal amount of $3,512,202,000 in conjunction with the Archstone Acquisition. The Company also assumed an obligation related to outstanding preferred interests of approximately $67,500,000 , included in accrued expenses and other liabilities.
See accompanying notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
F-8 Table of Contents AVALONBAY COMMUNITIES,INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1.
Organization, Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies Organization AvalonBay Communities, Inc. (the Company, which term, unless the context otherwise requires, refers to AvalonBay Communities, Inc. together with its subsidiaries), is a Maryland corporation that has elected to be treated as a real estate investment trust (REIT) for federal income tax purposes under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (the Code).  The Company focuses on the development, redevelopment, acquisition, ownership and operation of multifamily communities primarily in New England, the New York/New Jersey metro area, the Mid-Atlantic, the Pacific Northwest, and Northern and Southern California.
At December31, 2015 , the Company owned or held a direct or indirect ownership interest in 259 operating apartment communities containing 75,584 apartment homes in 11 states and the District of Columbia, of which nine communities containing 2,795 apartment homes were under reconstruction. In addition, the Company owned or held a direct or indirect ownership interest in 26 communities under construction that are expected to contain an aggregate of 8,112 apartment homes when completed. The Company also owned or held a direct or indirect ownership interest in land or rights to land in which the Company expects to develop an additional 32 communities that, if developed as expected, will contain an estimated 9,634 apartment homes.
Capitalized terms used without definition have meanings provided elsewhere in this Form10-K.
Principles of Consolidation The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of the Company and its wholly-owned subsidiaries, certain joint venture partnerships, subsidiary partnerships structured as DownREITs and any variable interest entities that qualify for consolidation. All significant intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
As of December 31, 2015, the Company has adopted ASU 2015-02, Consolidation: Amendments to the Consolidation Analysis. See discussion under "Recently Issued and Adopted Accounting Standards" for further details.
The Company accounts for joint venture entities and subsidiary partnerships in accordance with the consolidation guidance. The Company evaluates the partnership of each joint venture entity and determines first whether to follow the variable interest (VIE) or the voting interest (VOE) model. Once the appropriate consolidation model is identified, the Company then evaluates whether it should consolidate the venture. Under the VIE model, the Company consolidates an investment when it has control to direct the activities of the venture and the obligation to absorb losses or the right to receive benefits that could potentially be significant to the VIE. Under the VOE model, the Company consolidates an investment when 1) it controls the investment through ownership of a majority voting interest if the investment is not a limited partnership or 2) it controls the investment through its ability to remove the other partners in the investment, at its discretion, when the investment is a limited partnership.
The Company generally uses the equity method of accounting for its investment in joint ventures, under all other potential scenarios, including where the Company holds a noncontrolling limited partner interest in a joint venture. Any investment in excess of the Company's cost basis at acquisition or formation of an equity method venture, will be recorded as a component of the Company's investment in the joint venture and recognized over the life of the underlying fixed assets of the venture as a reduction to its equity in income (loss) from the venture. Investments in which the Company has little or no influence are accounted for using the cost method.
Revenue and Gain Recognition Rental income related to leases is recognized on an accrual basis when due from residents as required by the accounting guidance applicable to leases, which provides guidance on classification and recognition. In accordance with the Company's standard lease terms, rental payments are generally due on a monthly basis. Any cash concessions given at the inception of the lease are amortized over the approximate life of the lease, which is generally one year. The Company records a charge to income for outstanding receivables greater than 90 days past due as a component of operating expenses, excluding property taxes on the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income.
The Company accounts for the sale of real estate assets and any related gain recognition in accordance with the accounting guidance applicable to sales of real estate, which establishes standards for recognition of profit on all real estate sales transactions, other than retail land sales. The Company recognizes the sale, and associated gain or loss from the disposition, provided that the earnings process is complete and the Company does not have significant continuing involvement.
F-9 Table of Contents Real Estate Operating real estate assets are stated at cost and consist of land and improvements, buildings and improvements, furniture, fixtures and equipment, and other costs incurred during their development, redevelopment and acquisition. Significant expenditures which improve or extend the life of an asset are capitalized. Expenditures for maintenance and repairs are charged to expense as incurred.
Improvements and upgrades are generally capitalized only if the item exceeds $15,000 , extends the useful life of the asset and is not related to making an apartment home ready for the next resident. Purchases of personal property, such as computers and furniture, are generally capitalized only if the item is a new addition and exceeds $2,500 . The Company generally expenses purchases of personal property made for replacement purposes.
Project costs related to the development, construction and redevelopment of real estate projects (including interest and related loan fees, property taxes and other direct costs) are capitalized as a cost of the project. Indirect project costs that relate to several projects are capitalized and allocated to the projects to which they relate. Indirect costs not clearly related to development, construction and redevelopment activity are expensed as incurred. For development, capitalization (i)begins when the Company has determined that development of the future asset is probable, (ii)can be suspended if there is no current development activity underway, but future development is still probable and (iii)ends when the asset, or a portion of an asset, is delivered and is ready for its intended use, or the Company's intended use changes such that capitalization is no longer appropriate. For redevelopment efforts, the Company capitalizes costs either (i)in advance of taking homes out of service when significant renovation of the common area has begun until the redevelopment is completed, or (ii)when an apartment home is taken out of service for redevelopment until the redevelopment is completed and the apartment home is available for a new resident. Rental income and operating costs incurred during the initial lease-up or post-redevelopment lease-up period are recognized in earnings as incurred. The Company defers external costs associated with originating new leases, recognizing the impact of these costs in earnings over the term of the lease.
The Company has previously acquired as a Development Right three land parcels partially improved with office buildings, industrial space and other commercial and residential ventures occupied by unrelated third parties. As of December31, 2015 , the Company is actively pursuing development of these parcels. The Company expenses all costs incurred related to acquisitions of land parcels improved with commercial and/or residential ventures occupied by unrelated third parties. For land parcels for which the Company intends to pursue development, the Company will manage the current improvements until such time as all tenant obligations have been satisfied or eliminated through negotiation, and construction of new apartment communities is ready to begin. Revenue from incidental operations received from the current improvements on these land parcels in excess of any incremental costs are being recorded as a reduction of total capitalized costs of the Development Right and not as part of net income.
In connection with the acquisition of an operating community, the Company identifies and records each asset acquired and liability assumed in such transaction at its estimated fair value at the date of acquisition. The purchase price allocations to tangible assets, such as land and improvements, buildings and improvements, and furniture, fixtures and equipment, and the in-place lease intangible assets, are reflected in real estate assets and depreciated over their estimated useful lives. Any purchase price allocation to intangible assets, other than in-place lease intangibles, is included in prepaid expenses and other assets on the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets and amortized over the term of the acquired intangible asset. The Company expenses all costs incurred related to acquisitions of operating communities. The Company values land based on a market approach, looking to recent sales of similar properties, adjusting for differences due to location, the state of entitlement as well as the shape and size of the parcel. Improvements to land are valued using a replacement cost approach and consider the structures and amenities included for the communities. The approach applies industry standard replacement costs adjusted for geographic specific considerations, and reduced by estimated depreciation. The value for furniture, fixtures and equipment is also determined based on a replacement cost approach, considering costs for both items in the apartment homes as well as common areas and is adjusted for estimated depreciation.  The fair value of buildings acquired is estimated using the replacement cost approach, assuming the buildings were vacant at acquisition. The replacement cost approach considers the composition of structures acquired, adjusted for an estimate of depreciation. The estimate of depreciation is made considering industry standard information and depreciation curves for the identified asset classes. The value of the acquired lease-related intangibles considers the estimated cost of leasing the apartment homes as if the acquired building(s) were vacant, as well as the value of the current leases relative to market-rate leases. The in-place lease value is determined using an average total lease-up time, the number of apartment homes and net revenues generated during the lease-up time. The lease-up period for an apartment community is assumed to be 12 months to achieve stabilized occupancy. Net revenues use market rent considering actual leasing and industry rental rate data. The value of current leases relative to a market-rate lease is based on market rents obtained for market comparables, and considered a market derived discount rate. Given the significance of unobservable inputs used in the value of real estate assets acquired, the Company classifies them as Level 3 prices in the fair value hierarchy.
Depreciation is calculated on buildings and improvements using the straight-line method over their estimated useful lives, which range from seven to 30 years. Furniture, fixtures and equipment are generally depreciated using the straight-line method over their estimated useful lives, which range from three years (primarily computer-related equipment) to seven years.
F-10 Table of Contents Income Taxes As of December31, 2015 and 2014 , the Company did not have any unrecognized tax benefits. The Company does not believe that there will be any material changes in its unrecognized tax positions over the next 12months. The Company is subject to examination by the respective taxing authorities for the tax years 2012 through 2014 .
The Company elected to be taxed as a REIT under the Code for its tax year ended December31, 1994 and has not revoked such election. A corporate REIT is a legal entity which holds real estate interests and can deduct from its federally taxable income qualifying dividends it pays if it meets a number of organizational and operational requirements, including a requirement that it currently distribute at least 90% of its adjusted taxable income to stockholders. Therefore, as a REIT the Company generally will not be subject to corporate level federal income tax on taxable income if it distributes 100% of its taxable income over the time period allowed under the Code to its stockholders. The states in which the Company operates have similar tax provisions which recognize the Company as a REIT for state income tax purposes. Management believes that all such conditions for the exemption from income taxes on ordinary income have been or will be met for the periods presented. Accordingly, no provision for federal and state income taxes has been made. If the Company fails to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, it will be subject to federal income taxes at regular corporate rates (including any applicable alternative minimum tax) and may not be able to qualify as a REIT for four subsequent taxable years. Even if the Company qualifies for taxation as a REIT, the Company may be subject to certain state and local taxes on its income and property, and to federal income and excise taxes on its undistributed taxable income. The Company did not incur any charges or receive refunds of excise taxes related to the years ended December31, 2015 , 2014 and 2013 . In addition, taxable income from non-REIT activities performed through taxable REIT subsidiaries ("TRS") is subject to federal, state and local income taxes. The Company incurred income tax expense of $1,861,000 and $9,368,000 in 2015 and 2014, respectively, associated primarily with disposition activities transacted through a TRS.
No taxes were incurred during 2013 .
The following reconciles net income attributable to common stockholders to taxable net income for the years ended December31, 2015 , 2014 and 2013 (dollars in thousands): 2015 Estimate 2014 Actual 2013 Actual Net income attributable to common stockholders $ 742,038 $ 683,567 $ 353,141 GAAP gain on sale of communities (in excess of) less than tax gain (43,873 ) 22,127 29,388 Depreciation/amortization timing differences on real estate (3,105 ) (10,735 ) 180,293 Deductible acquisition costs   (26,427 ) Amortization of debt/mark to market interest (64,676 ) (38,202 ) (31,965 ) Tax compensation expense less than (in excess of) GAAP (5,696 ) (5,252 ) 12,886 Casualty (gain) loss and impairment loss, net (10,542 )   Other adjustments (38,553 ) 14,323 1,018 Taxable net income $ 575,593 $ 665,828 $ 518,334 The following summarizes the tax components of the Company's common dividends declared for the years ended December31, 2015 , 2014 and 2013 (unaudited): 2015 2014 2013 Ordinary income 83 % 62 % 42 % 20% capital gain 12 % 29 % 40 % Unrecaptured 1250 gain 5 % 9 % 18 % Deferred Financing Costs Deferred financing costs include fees and other expenditures necessary to obtain debt financing and are amortized on a straight-line basis, which approximates the effective interest method, over the shorter of the term of the loan or the related credit enhancement facility, if applicable. Unamortized financing costs are charged to earnings when debt is retired before the maturity date. Accumulated amortization of deferred financing costs related to unsecured notes was $11,995,000 and $8,833,000 as of December31, 2015 and 2014 , respectively, and related to mortgage notes payable was $12,315,000 and $12,255,000 as of December31, 2015 and 2014 , respectively. In accordance with the new debt issuance costs guidance, deferred financing costs, except for costs associated with line-of-credit arrangements, are presented as a direct deduction from the related debt liability. See  "Change in Accounting Principle" for discussion. Accumulated amortization of deferred financing costs related to the Company's Credit Facility was $4,967,000 and $3,356,000 as of December31, 2015 and 2014 , respectively, and was included in prepaid expenses and other assets on the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets.
F-11 Table of Contents Cash, Cash Equivalents and Cash in Escrow Cash and cash equivalents include all cash and liquid investments with an original maturity of three months or less from the date acquired. Cash in escrow includes principal reserve funds that are restricted for the repayment of specified secured financing. The majority of the Company's cash, cash equivalents and cash in escrow are held at major commercial banks.
Comprehensive Income Comprehensive income, as reflected on the Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income, is defined as all changes in equity during each period except for those resulting from investments by or distributions to shareholders. Accumulated other comprehensive loss, as reflected on the Consolidated Statements of Equity, reflects the effective portion of the cumulative changes in the fair value of derivatives in qualifying cash flow hedge relationships.
Earnings per Common Share Basic earnings per share is computed by dividing net income attributable to common stockholders by the weighted average number of shares outstanding during the period. All outstanding unvested restricted share awards contain rights to non-forfeitable dividends and participate in undistributed earnings with common shareholders and, accordingly, are considered participating securities that are included in the two-class method of computing basic earnings per share ("EPS"). Both the unvested restricted shares and other potentially dilutive common shares, and the related impact to earnings, are considered when calculating earnings per share on a diluted basis. The Company's earnings per common share are determined as follows (dollars in thousands, except per share data): For the year ended 12/31/15 12/31/14 12/31/13 Basic and diluted shares outstanding Weighted average common sharesbasic 133,565,711 130,586,718 126,855,754 Weighted average DownREIT units outstanding 7,500 7,500 7,500 Effect of dilutive securities 1,019,966 643,284 402,649 Weighted average common sharesdiluted 134,593,177 131,237,502 127,265,903 Calculation of Earnings per Sharebasic Net income attributable to common stockholders $ 742,038 $ 683,567 $ 353,141 Net income allocated to unvested restricted shares (1,774 ) (1,523 ) (563 ) Net income attributable to common stockholders, adjusted $ 740,264 $ 682,044 $ 352,578 Weighted average common sharesbasic 133,565,711 130,586,718 126,855,754 Earnings per common sharebasic $ 5.54 $ 5.22 $ 2.78 Calculation of Earnings per Sharediluted Net income attributable to common stockholders $ 742,038 $ 683,567 $ 353,141 Add: noncontrolling interests of DownREIT unitholders in consolidated partnerships, including discontinued operations 38 35 32 Adjusted net income attributable to common stockholders $ 742,076 $ 683,602 $ 353,173 Weighted average common sharesdiluted 134,593,177 131,237,502 127,265,903 Earnings per common sharediluted $ 5.51 $ 5.21 $ 2.78 Dividends per common share $ 5.00 $ 4.64 $ 4.28 Certain options to purchase shares of common stock in the amount of 605,899 were outstanding as of December31, 2013 , but were not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share because such options were anti-dilutive for the period. All options to purchase shares of common stock outstanding as of December31, 2015 and 2014 are included in the computation of diluted earnings per share.
F-12 Table of Contents The Company is required to estimate the forfeiture of stock options and recognize compensation cost net of the estimated forfeitures. The estimated forfeitures included in compensation cost are adjusted to reflect actual forfeitures at the end of the vesting period. The forfeiture rate at December31, 2015 was 1.0% and is based on the average forfeiture activity over a period equal to the estimated life of the stock options. The application of estimated forfeitures did not materially impact compensation expense for the years ended December31, 2015 , 2014 and 2013 .
Abandoned Pursuit Costs and Impairment of Long-Lived Assets The Company capitalizes pre-development costs incurred in pursuit of new development opportunities for which the Company currently believes future development is probable ("Development Rights"). Future development of these Development Rights is dependent upon various factors, including zoning and regulatory approval, rental market conditions, construction costs and the availability of capital. Initial pre-development costs incurred for pursuits for which future development is not yet considered probable are expensed as incurred. In addition, if the status of a Development Right changes, making future development by the Company no longer probable, any capitalized pre-development costs are written off with a charge to expense. The Company expensed costs related to the abandonment of Development Rights as well as costs incurred in pursuing the acquisition of assets or costs incurred pursuing the disposition of assets for which such acquisition and disposition activity did not occur, in the amounts of $3,016,000 , $3,964,000 and $998,000 during the years ended December31, 2015 , 2014 and 2013 , respectively. These costs are included in expensed acquisition, development and other pursuit costs, net of recoveries on the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income. Abandoned pursuit costs can vary greatly, and the costs incurred in any given period may be significantly different in future periods.
The Company evaluates its real estate and other long-lived assets for impairment when potential indicators of impairment exist. Such assets are stated at cost, less accumulated depreciation and amortization, unless the carrying amount of the asset is not recoverable. If events or circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of a property or long-lived asset may not be recoverable, the Company assesses its recoverability by comparing the carrying amount of the property or long-lived asset to its estimated undiscounted future cash flows. If the carrying amount exceeds the aggregate undiscounted future cash flows, the Company recognizes an impairment loss to the extent the carrying amount exceeds the estimated fair value of the property or long-lived asset. Based on periodic tests of recoverability of long-lived assets, for the years ended December31, 2015 , 2014 and 2013 , the Company did not recognize any impairment losses for wholly-owned operating real estate assets, and did not record any impairment losses other than those related to the impairment on land held for investment and casualty gains and losses from property damage in 2015 discussed below.
The Company assesses its portfolio of land held for both development and investment for impairment if the intent of the Company changes with respect to either the development of, or the expected holding period for, the land. The Company did not recognize any material impairment charges on its investment in land during the years ended December31, 2015 , 2014 and 2013 .
The Company also evaluates its unconsolidated investments for other than temporary impairment, considering both the extent and amount by which the carrying value of the investment exceeds the fair value, and the Companys intent and ability to hold the investment to recover its carrying value. The Company also evaluates its proportionate share of any impairment of assets held by unconsolidated investments. There were no material other than temporary impairment losses recognized by any of the Company's investments in unconsolidated entities during the years ended December31, 2015 , 2014 or 2013 .
Casualty Gains and Losses The Company recorded a net casualty gain of $15,538,000 associated with the fire at Edgewater for the year ended December31, 2015 , which is included in casualty (gain) loss and impairment loss, net, on the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income. The net casualty gain is comprised of $44,142,000 in third-party insurance proceeds received by the Company, which were partially offset by casualty charges of $21,844,000 to write off the net book value of the building destroyed by the fire at Edgewater, and $6,760,000 to record demolition and additional incident expenses. See Note 7, "Commitments and Contingencies, Legal Contingencies," for further discussion of the Edgewater fire.
During the year ended December31, 2015 , several of the Company's communities in its Northeast markets incurred property and casualty damages from severe winter storms experienced during this time. The Company has recorded an impairment due to a casualty loss of $4,195,000 to recognize the damages from the storms, included in casualty (gain) loss and impairment loss, net on the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income.
The Company did not incur a casualty loss in 2014 or 2013 .
F-13 Table of Contents A casualty loss may also result in lost operating income from one or more communities that is covered by the Companys business interruption insurance policies.  The Company recognizes income for amounts received under its business interruption insurance policies as a component of rental and other income in the Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income. Revenue is recognized upon resolution of all contingencies related to the receipt, typically upon written confirmation by the insurer or receipt of the actual proceeds. The Company recognized $1,509,000 , $2,494,000 and $299,000 in income related business interruption insurance proceeds for the years ended December31, 2015 , 2014 and 2013 , respectively.
Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations The Company presents the assets and liabilities of any communities which have been sold, or otherwise qualify as held for sale, separately in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. In addition, the results of operations for those assets that meet the definition of discontinued operations are presented as such in the Company's Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income. Held for sale and discontinued operations classifications are provided in both the current and prior periods presented. Real estate assets held for sale are measured at the lower of the carrying amount or the fair value less the cost to sell. Both the real estate assets and corresponding liabilities are presented separately in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets. Subsequent to classification of an asset as held for sale, no further depreciation is recorded. Disposals representing a strategic shift in operations (e.g., a disposal of a major geographic area, a major line of business or a major equity method investment) will be presented as discontinued operations, and for those assets qualifying for classification as discontinued operations, the specific components of net income presented as discontinued operations include net operating income, depreciation expense and interest expense, net. For periods prior to the asset qualifying for discontinued operations, the Company reclassifies the results of operations to discontinued operations. In addition, the net gain or loss (including any impairment loss) on the eventual disposal of assets held for sale will be presented as discontinued operations when recognized. A change in presentation for held for sale or discontinued operations will not have any impact on the Company's financial condition or results of operations. The Company combines the operating, investing and financing portions of cash flows attributable to discontinued operations with the respective cash flows from continuing operations on the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. The Company had one operating community that qualified for held for sale presentation at December31, 2015 .
Redeemable Noncontrolling Interests Redeemable noncontrolling interests are comprised of potential future obligations of the Company, which allow the investors holding the noncontrolling interest to require the Company to purchase their interest. The Company classifies obligations under the redeemable noncontrolling interests at fair value, with a corresponding offset for changes in the fair value recorded in accumulated earnings less dividends. Reductions in fair value are recorded only to the extent that the Company has previously recorded increases in fair value above the redeemable noncontrolling interest's initial basis. The redeemable noncontrolling interests are presented outside of permanent equity as settlement in shares of the Company's common stock, where permitted, may not be within the Company's control. The nature and valuation of the Company's redeemable noncontrolling interests are discussed further in Note11, "Fair Value." Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities The Company enters into interest rate swap and interest rate cap agreements (collectively, "Hedging Derivatives") for interest rate risk management purposes and in conjunction with certain variable rate secured debt to satisfy lender requirements. The Company does not enter into Hedging Derivative transactions for trading or other speculative purposes. The Company assesses the effectiveness of qualifying cash flow and fair value hedges, both at inception and on an on-going basis. Hedge ineffectiveness is reported as a component of general and administrative expenses. The fair values of Hedging Derivatives that are in an asset position are recorded in prepaid expenses and other assets. The fair value of Hedging Derivatives that are in a liability position are included in accrued expenses and other liabilities. Other than the $51,000,000 loss on interest rate contract recorded during 2013, fair value changes for derivatives that are not in qualifying hedge relationships are reported as a component of interest expense, net. For the Hedging Derivative positions that the Company has determined qualify as effective cash flow hedges, the Company has recorded the effective portion of cumulative changes in the fair value of the Hedging Derivatives in other comprehensive income. Amounts recorded in other comprehensive income will be reclassified into earnings in the periods in which earnings are affected by the hedged cash flow. The effective portion of the change in fair value of the Hedging Derivatives that the Company has determined qualified as effective fair value hedges is reported as an adjustment to the carrying amount of the corresponding debt being hedged.  See Note 11, "Fair Value," for further discussion of derivative financial instruments.
Noncontrolling Interests Noncontrolling interests represent our joint venture partners' claims on consolidated investments where the Company owns less than a 100% interest. The Company records these interests at their initial fair value, adjusting the basis prospectively for the joint venture partners' share of the respective consolidated investments' results of operations and applicable changes in ownership.
F-14 Table of Contents Use of Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make certain estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the dates of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting periods. Actual results could differ from those estimates.
Reclassifications Certain reclassifications have been made to amounts in prior years' financial statements to conform to current year presentations as a result of changes in held for sale classification as described in Note 6, Real Estate Disposition Activities.
Recently Issued and Adopted Accounting Standards In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, Leases, amending the existing accounting standards for lease accounting, including requiring lessees to recognize most leases on their balance sheets and making targeted changes to lessor accounting. The new standard requires a modified retrospective transition approach for all leases existing at, or entered into after, the date of initial application, with an option to use certain transition relief. The guidance will be effective in the first quarter of 2019 and allows for early adoption. The Company is assessing whether the new standard will have a material effect on its financial position or results of operations.
In April 2015, the FASB issued ASU 2015-03, Interest - Imputation of Interest: Simplifying the Presentation of Debt Issuance Costs. The guidance requires debt issuance costs related to a recognized debt liability to be presented as a direct deduction from the carrying amount of that debt liability and only impacts financial statement presentation. In August 2015, the FASB issued ASU 2015-15, Interest-Imputation of Interest: Presentation and Subsequent Measurement of Debt Issuance Costs Associated with Line-of-Credit Arrangements. The guidance codified the SEC staff's view on the presentation and subsequent measurement of debt issuance costs associated with line-of-credit arrangements consistent with prior practice as an asset. As of December 31, 2015, the Company has adopted the guidance retrospectively for all prior periods. See discussion under "Change in Accounting Principle." In February 2015, the FASB issued ASU 2015-02, Consolidation: Amendments to the Consolidation Analysis, which amends the criteria for determining variable interest entities (VIEs), amends the criteria for determining if a service provider possesses a variable interest in a VIE, and eliminates the presumption that a general partner should consolidate a limited partnership. The guidance is effective in the first quarter of 2016 and allows for early adoption. As of December 31, 2015, the Company has adopted the guidance, and there was no material effect on its financial position or results of operations.
In August 2014, the FASB issued ASU 2014-15, Disclosure of Uncertainties about an Entitys Ability to Continue as a Going Concern, which requires management to assess an entitys ability to continue as a going concern. The guidance is effective in the fourth quarter of 2016 and allows for early adoption. The Company is assessing whether the new standard will have a material effect on its financial position or results of operations.
In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, a revenue recognition standard that will result in companies recognizing revenue from contracts when control for the service or product that is the subject of the contract is transferred from the seller to the buyer. In August 2015, the FASB  issued ASU 2015-14, Revenue from Contracts with Customers-Deferral of the Effective Date, which defers the effective date of the new revenue recognition standard until the first quarter of 2018. The Company is assessing whether the new standard will have a material effect on its financial position or results of operations.
In April 2014, the FASB issued ASU 2014-08, guidance updating the accounting and reporting for discontinued operations, under which only disposals representing a strategic shift in operations (e.g., a disposal of a major geographic area, a major line of business or a major equity method investment) will be presented as discontinued operations. The standard also requires expanded disclosures about dispositions that will provide financial statement users with more information about the assets, liabilities, income and expenses of discontinued operations, as well as disposals of a significant part of an entity that does not qualify for discontinued operations reporting. The standard was effective in the first quarter of 2015 and the Company adopted the guidance as of January 1, 2014, as discussed in Note 7, Real Estate Disposition Activities.
Change in Accounting Principle As of December31, 2015 , the Company adopted the new debt issuance costs guidance issued in April 2015 and therefore has retrospectively adjusted the presentation of deferred financing costs on the Consolidated Balance Sheets for all prior periods. See discussion under "Recently Issued and Adopted Accounting Standards." The guidance requires debt issuance costs to be presented as a direct deduction from the related debt liability rather than as an asset, except for costs associated with line-of-credit arrangements. The prior period amounts that have been impacted by the new guidance and retrospectively adjusted include (i) deferred financing costs, net, (ii) unsecured notes, net, and (iii) mortgage notes payable, net, located on the Consolidated Balance F-15 Table of Contents Sheets. The following table presents the impact of the change in accounting principle to the condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December31, 2014 : 12/31/14 Impact of change in accounting principle 12/31/14 (as previously reported) (as adjusted and currently reported) ASSETS Total real estate, net $ 14,935,740 $  $ 14,935,740 Cash and cash equivalents 509,460  509,460 Cash in escrow 95,625  95,625 Resident security deposits 29,617  29,617 Investments in unconsolidated real estate entities 298,315  298,315 Deferred development costs 67,029  67,029 Prepaid expenses and other assets 240,937 (36,145 ) 204,792 Total assets $ 16,176,723 $ (36,145 ) $ 16,140,578 LIABILITIES AND EQUITY Unsecured notes, net $ 2,993,265 $ (17,732 ) $ 2,975,533 Variable rate unsecured credit facility    Mortgage notes payable, net 3,532,587 (18,413 ) 3,514,174 Other liabilities 591,701  591,701 Total liabilities 7,117,553 (36,145 ) 7,081,408 Redeemable noncontrolling interests 12,765  12,765 Total equity 9,046,405  9,046,405 Total liabilities and equity $ 16,176,723 $ (36,145 ) $ 16,140,578 The impact of the change in accounting principle as of December31, 2015 includes the change in presentation of  deferred financing costs, net, of $21,725,000 related to unsecured notes, net, and $14,703,000 related to mortgage notes payable, net, as offsets to the related debt liability in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Deferred financing costs, net, related to the Company's Credit Facility of $2,148,000 is not individually significant and has been included in prepaid expenses and other assets on the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets.
2.
Interest Capitalized The Company capitalizes interest during the development and redevelopment of real estate assets. Capitalized interest associated with the Company's development or redevelopment activities totaled $79,834,000 , $69,961,000 and $66,838,000 for years ended December31, 2015 , 2014 and 2013 , respectively.
3.
Mortgage Notes Payable, Unsecured Notes and Credit Facility The Company's mortgage notes payable, unsecured notes, Term Loan and Credit Facility, both as defined below, as of December31, 2015 and December31, 2014 are summarized below. The following amounts and discussion do not include the mortgage notes related to the communities classified as held for sale, if any, as of December31, 2015 and December31, 2014 , as shown in the Consolidated Balance Sheets (dollars in thousands) (see Note6, "Real Estate Disposition Activities").
12/31/15 12/31/14 Fixed rate unsecured notes (1) $ 3,575,000 $ 2,750,000 Term Loan 300,000 250,000 Fixed rate mortgage notes payableconventional and tax-exempt (2) 1,561,109 2,400,677 Variable rate mortgage notes payableconventional and tax-exempt (2) 1,045,182 1,047,461 Total notes payable and unsecured notes 6,481,291 6,448,138 Credit Facility   Total mortgage notes payable, unsecured notes and Credit Facility $ 6,481,291 $ 6,448,138 _________________________________ F-16 Table of Contents (1) Balances at December31, 2015 and December31, 2014 exclude $7,601 and $6,735 , respectively, of debt discount, and $21,725 and $17,732 , respectively, of deferred financing costs, as reflected in unsecured notes, net on the Company's Consolidated Balance Sheets.
(2) Balances at December31, 2015 and December31, 2014 exclude $19,686 and $84,449 , respectively, of debt premium, and $14,703 and $18,413 , respectively, of deferred financing costs, as reflected in mortgage notes payable, net on the Company's Consolidated Balance Sheets.
The following debt activity occurred during the year ended December31, 2015 :  In January 2015, in conjunction with the disposition of Avalon on Stamford Harbor, another operating community, AVA Belltown, was substituted as collateral for the disposed community's outstanding fixed rate secured mortgage loan.
In March2015, the Company borrowed the final $50,000,000 available under the $300,000,000 variable rate unsecured term loan (the Term Loan), maturing in March 2021 .
In April 2015, the Company repaid an aggregate of $481,582,000 principal amount of secured indebtedness, which includes eight fixed rate mortgage loans secured by eight wholly-owned operating communities, at par. The indebtedness had an aggregate effective interest rate of 3.12% , and a stated maturity date of November 2015 . The Company incurred a gain on the early debt extinguishment of $8,724,000 , representing the excess of the write-off of unamortized premium resulting from the debt assumed in the Archstone Acquisition.
In May 2015, the Company issued $525,000,000 principal amount of unsecured notes in a public offering under its existing shelf registration statement for net proceeds of approximately $520,653,000 . The notes mature in June 2025 and were issued at a 3.45% coupon interest rate.
In June 2015, the Company repaid a $15,778,000 fixed rate secured mortgage note with an effective interest rate of 7.50% at par in advance of its February 2041 maturity date, recognizing a charge of $455,000 for a prepayment penalty and write-off of unamortized deferred financing costs.
In June 2015, the Company repaid a $7,805,000 fixed rate secured mortgage note with an effective interest rate of 7.84% at par and without penalty in advance of its May 2027 maturity date, recognizing a charge of $263,000 for the write-off of unamortized deferred financing costs.
In June 2015, the Company repaid the $74,531,000 fixed rate secured mortgage note secured by Edgewater, with an effective interest rate of 5.95% at par and without penalty in advance of its May 2019 maturity date, recognizing a charge of $259,000 for the write-off of unamortized deferred financing costs.
In July 2015, the Company repaid a $140,346,000 fixed rate secured mortgage note with an effective interest rate of 5.56% in advance of its May 2053 maturity date, resulting in a recognized gain of $18,987,000 , consisting of the write off of unamortized premium net of unamortized deferred financing costs of $30,215,000 , partially offset by a prepayment penalty of $11,228,000 .
In November 2015, the Company issued $300,000,000 principal amount of unsecured notes in a public offering under its existing shelf registration statement for net proceeds of approximately $297,072,000 . The notes mature in November 2025 and were issued at a 3.5% coupon interest rate.
In December 2015, the Company repaid a $46,938,000 fixed rate secured mortgage note with an effective interest rate of 6.23% , at par, pursuant to its scheduled maturity date.
In December 2015, the Company repaid a $56,492,000 fixed rate secured mortgage note with an effective interest rate of 6.13% , at par, pursuant to its scheduled maturity date.
At December 31, 2015, the Company had a $1,300,000,000 revolving variable rate unsecured credit facility with a syndicate of banks (the "Credit Facility") which was scheduled to mature in April 2017. The annual facility fee was approximately $1,950,000 based on the $1,300,000,000 facility size and based on the Company's current credit rating. The Company increased the Credit Facility in January 2016, see Note 13, "Subsequent Events," for further discussion.
The Company had no borrowings outstanding under the Credit Facility and had $43,049,000 and $49,407,000 outstanding in letters of credit that reduced the borrowing capacity as of December31, 2015 and December31, 2014 , respectively.
F-17 Table of Contents In the aggregate, secured notes payable mature at various dates from March 2016 through July 2066, and are secured by certain apartment communities (with a net carrying value of $3,253,350,000 , excluding communities classified as held for sale, as of December31, 2015 ).
As of December31, 2015 , the Company has guaranteed approximately $234,500,000 of mortgage notes payable held by wholly-owned subsidiaries; all such mortgage notes payable are consolidated for financial reporting purposes. The weighted average interest rate of the Company's fixed rate mortgage notes payable (conventional and tax-exempt) was 4.6% and 4.5% at December31, 2015 and December31, 2014 , respectively. The weighted average interest rate of the Company's variable rate mortgage notes payable (conventional and tax exempt), the Term Loan and its Credit Facility, including the effect of certain financing related fees, was 1.8% at both December31, 2015 and December31, 2014 .
Scheduled payments and maturities of mortgage notes payable and unsecured notes outstanding at December31, 2015 are as follows (dollars in thousands): Year Secured notes payments Secured notes maturities Unsecured notes maturities Stated interest rate of unsecured notes 2016 $ 16,164 $ 16,255 $ 250,000 5.750 % 2017 17,166 709,891 250,000 5.700 % 2018 16,236 76,950   % 2019 4,696 588,429   % 2020 3,624 50,825 250,000 6.100 % 400,000 3.625 % 2021 3,551 27,844 250,000 3.950 % 300,000 LIBOR + 1.450% 2022 3,795  450,000 2.950 % 2023 4,040  350,000 4.200 % 250,000 2.850 % 2024 4,310  300,000 3.500 % 2025 4,553 84,835 525,000 3.450 % 300,000 3.500 % Thereafter 218,678 754,449   % $ 296,813 $ 2,309,478 $ 3,875,000 The Company's unsecured notes are redeemable at the Company's option, in whole or in part, generally at a redemption price equal to the greater of (i) 100% of their principal amount or (ii)the sum of the present value of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest discounted at a rate equal to the yield on U.S. Treasury securities with a comparable maturity plus a spread between 25 and 45 basis points depending on the specific series of unsecured notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest to the redemption date. The indenture under which the Company's unsecured notes were issued and the Company's Credit Facility agreement contain limitations on the amount of debt the Company can incur or the amount of assets that can be used to secure other financing transactions, and other customary financial and other covenants, with which the Company was in compliance at December31, 2015 .
F-18 Table of Contents 4.
Equity As of December31, 2015 and 2014 , the Company's charter had authorized for issuance a total of 280,000,000 shares of common stock and 50,000,000 shares of preferred stock.
During the year ended December31, 2015 , the Company: i.
issued 281,091 shares of common stock in connection with stock options exercised; ii.
issued 2,142 common shares through the Company's dividend reinvestment plan; iii.
issued 157,779 common shares in connection with restricted stock grants and the conversion of performance awards to restricted shares; iv.
issued 46,589 common shares in conjunction with the conversion of deferred stock awards; v.
withheld 45,090 common shares to satisfy employees' tax withholding and other liabilities; vi.
canceled 1,529 shares of restricted stock upon forfeiture; vii.
issued 10,667 shares through the Employee Stock Purchase Plan; and viii.
issued 4,500,000 shares of common stock in settlement of the Forward.
Any deferred compensation related to the Companys stock option and restricted stock grants during the year ended December31, 2015 is not reflected on the Companys Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December31, 2015 , and will not be reflected until recognized as compensation cost.
In August 2012, the Company commenced a third continuous equity program ("CEP III"), under which the Company was authorized by its Board of Directors to sell up to $750,000,000 of shares of its common stock from time to time during a 36 -month period. CEP III expired in August 2015, and the Company had no sales under the program during the year ended December31, 2015 .
In December 2015, the Company commenced a fourth continuous equity program ("CEP IV") under which the Company may sell up to $1,000,000,000 of its common stock from time to time. Actual sales will depend on a variety of factors to be determined by the Company, including market conditions, the trading price of the Company's common stock and determinations by the Company of the appropriate sources of funding for the Company. In conjunction with CEP IV, the Company engaged sales agents who will receive compensation of up to 2.0% of the gross sales price for shares sold. CEP IV also allows the Company to enter into forward sale agreements up to $1,000,000,000 in aggregate sales price of its common stock. The Company will physically settle each forward sale agreement on one or more dates specified by the Company on or prior to the maturity date of that particular forward sale agreement, in which case the Company will expect to receive aggregate net cash proceeds at settlement equal to the number of shares underlying the particular forward agreement multiplied by the relevant forward sale price. However, the Company may also elect to cash settle or net share settle a forward sale agreement. In connection with each forward sale agreement, the Company will pay the relevant forward seller, in the form of a reduced initial forward sale price, commission of up to 2.0% of the sales prices of all borrowed shares of common stock sold. In 2015 , the Company had no sales under the program and did not enter into any forward sale agreements.
On September 9, 2014, based on a market closing price of $155.83 per share on that date, the Company entered into a forward contract to sell 4,500,000 shares of common stock for an initial forward price of $151.74 per share, net of offering fees and discounts (the "Forward"). The sales price and proceeds achieved by the Company were determined on the dates of settlement, with adjustments during the term of the contract for the Companys dividends as well as for a daily interest factor that varied with changes in the Fed Funds rate. During the  year ended December31, 2015 , the Company issued 4,500,000 shares of common stock at a weighted average sales price of $146.54 per share, for net proceeds of $659,423,000 , in settlement of the Forward.
F-19 Table of Contents 5.
Investments in Real Estate Entities Investments in Unconsolidated Real Estate Entities The Company accounts for its investments in unconsolidated real estate entities under the equity method of accounting, as discussed in Note1, "Organization and Basis of Presentation," under Principles of Consolidation . The significant accounting policies of the Company's unconsolidated real estate entities are consistent with those of the Company in all material respects.
As of December31, 2015 , the Company had investments in the following real estate entities:  AvalonBay Value Added Fund II,LP ("FundII") In September 2008, the Company formed Fund II, a private, discretionary real estate investment vehicle which acquired and operates communities in the Company's markets. Fund II served as the exclusive vehicle through which the Company acquired investment interests in apartment communities, subject to certain exceptions, through the close of its investment period in August 2011. Fund II has six institutional investors, including the Company. One of the Company's wholly owned subsidiaries is the general partner of Fund II and at December31, 2015 , excluding costs incurred in excess of equity in the underlying net assets of Fund II, the Company has an equity investment of $50,443,000 (net of distributions), representing a 31.3% combined general partner and limited partner equity interest.
During 2015 , Fund II sold four communities:  Eaves Plainsboro, located in Plainsboro, NJ, for $117,000,000 ,  Eaves Los Alisos, located in Lake Forest, CA, for $39,500,000 ,  Captain Parker Arms, located in Lexington, MA,for $31,600,000 , and  Eaves Carlsbad, located in Carlsbad, CA, for $112,000,000 .
The Company's proportionate share of the gain in accordance with GAAP for the four dispositions was $29,726,000 .
In conjunction with the disposition of these communities, Fund II repaid $69,036,000 of related secured indebtedness in advance of the scheduled maturity dates. This resulted in charges for prepayment penalties, of which the Companys portion was $1,400,000 and was reported as a reduction of equity in income (loss) of unconsolidated entities on the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income.
Subsidiaries of Fund II have seven loans secured by individual assets with aggregate amounts outstanding of $286,543,000 , with maturity dates that vary from October 2017 to August 2019 . The mortgage loans are payable by the subsidiaries of Fund II from operating cash flow or disposition proceeds from the underlying real estate. The Company has not guaranteed repayment of this debt, nor does the Company have any obligation to fund this debt should Fund II be unable to do so.
In addition, as part of the formation of Fund II, the Company provided to one of the limited partners a guarantee. The guarantee provided that if, upon final liquidation of Fund II, the total amount of all distributions to that partner during the life of Fund II (whether from operating cash flow or property sales) did not equal a minimum of the total capital contributions made by that partner, then the Company would pay the partner an amount equal to the shortfall, but in no event more than 10% of the total capital contributions made by the partner. During the year ended December31, 2015 , the limited partner transferred its investment interest to an unrelated third party. The guarantee was not transferred with the investment interest, so the Company has no further obligation under the guarantee.
Archstone Multifamily Partners ACLP (the "U.S. Fund") The U.S. Fund was formed in July 2011 and is fully invested. The U.S. Fund has a term that expires in July 2023, assuming the exercise of two , one -year extension options. The U.S. Fund has six institutional investors, including the Company. The Company is the general partner of the U.S. Fund and, at December31, 2015 excluding costs incurred in excess of equity in the underlying net assets of the U.S. Fund, the Company has an equity investment of $68,683,000 (net of distributions), representing a 28.6% combined general partner and limited partner equity interest. The Company acquired its interest in the U.S. Fund as part of the Archstone Acquisition.
Subsidiaries of the U.S. Fund have 10 loans secured by individual assets with aggregate amounts outstanding of $373,863,000 , with maturity dates that vary from January 2019 to November 2022 . In December 2015, a subsidiary of the U.S. fund obtained a $51,300,000 variable rate, interest only, mortgage note maturing in December 2020, which has been converted to an effective fixed rate borrowing with an interest rate swap. The mortgage loans are payable by the subsidiaries of the U.S. Fund with operating cash flow or disposition proceeds from the underlying real estate. The Company has not guaranteed the debt of the U.S. Fund, nor does the Company have any obligation to fund this debt should the U.S. Fund be unable to do so.
F-20 Table of Contents  Multifamily Partners AC JVLP (the "AC JV") The AC JV is a joint venture that was formed in 2011 and has four institutional investors, including the Company. Excluding costs incurred in excess of equity in the underlying net assets of the AC JV, at December31, 2015 the Company has an equity investment of $52,148,000 (net of distributions), representing a 20.0% equity interest. The Company acquired its interest in the AC JV as part of the Archstone Acquisition.
The AC JV partnership agreement contains provisions that require the Company to provide a right of first offer ("ROFO") to the AC JV in connection with additional opportunities to acquire or develop additional interests in multifamily real estate assets within a specified geographic radius of the existing assets, generally one mile or less. The Company owns a land parcel for the development of 265 apartment homes, classified as a Development Right in Cambridge, MA, acquired as part of the Archstone Acquisition, that is subject to ROFO restrictions. The ROFO restriction expires in 2019.
As of December31, 2015 , subsidiaries of the AC JV have eight unsecured loans outstanding in the aggregate of $162,300,000 which mature in August 2021, and which were made by the investors in the venture, including the Company, in proportion to the investors' respective equity ownership interest. The unsecured loans are payable by the subsidiaries of the AC JV with operating cash flow from the venture. The Company has not guaranteed the debt of the AC JV, nor does the Company have any obligation to fund this debt should the AC JV be unable to do so.
MVP I,LLC In December 2004, the Company entered into a joint venture agreement with an unrelated third-party for the development of Avalon at Mission Bay North II. Construction of Avalon at Mission Bay North II, a 313 apartment-home community located in San Francisco, California, was completed in December 2006. The Company holds a 25.0% equity interest in the venture. The Company is responsible for the day-to-day operations of the community and is the management agent subject to the terms of a management agreement.
During 2015 , the Company received $20,680,000 from the joint venture partner associated with MVP I,LLC, upon agreement with the partner to modify the joint venture agreement to eliminate the Company's promoted interest from associated distributions for future return calculations. Prospectively, earnings and distributions will be based on the Company's 25.0% equity interest in the venture. Before this modification to the joint venture agreement, the Company had the right to 45.0% of distributions after achievement of a threshold return, which was achieved in 2015, up to the date the joint venture agreement was modified, as well as in 2014 and 2013.
During 2015 , MVP I, LLC obtained a $103,000,000 , 3.24% fixed rate loan, with a maturity date of July 2025, and used the proceeds and cash on hand to repay its existing $105,000,000 , variable rate loan which was scheduled to mature in December 2015, at par.
Brandywine Apartments of Maryland, LLC ("Brandywine") Brandywine owns a 305 apartment home community located in Washington, DC. The community is managed by a third party. Brandywine is comprised of five members who hold various interests in the joint venture. In conjunction with the Archstone Acquisition, the Company acquired a 26.1% equity interest in the venture, and subsequently purchased an additional 2.6% interest, and as of December31, 2015 , holds a 28.7% equity interest in the venture.
Brandywine has an outstanding $23,835,000 fixed rate mortgage loan that is payable by the venture. The Company has not guaranteed the debt of Brandywine, nor does the Company have any obligation to fund this debt should Brandywine be unable to do so.
Residual JV Through subsidiaries, the Company and Equity Residential entered into three limited liability company agreements (collectively, the Residual JV) through which the Company and Equity Residential acquired (i)certain assets of Archstone that the Company and Equity Residential have divested (to third parties or to the Company or Equity Residential) (the Residual Assets), and (ii)various liabilities of Archstone that the Company and Equity Residential agreed to assume in conjunction with the Archstone Acquisition (the Residual Liabilities). The Residual Assets included a 20.0% interest in Lake Mendota Investments,LLC and Subsidiaries ("SWIB"), a joint venture which disposed the last of its communities in 2015 as discussed below, as well as various licenses, insurance policies, contracts, office leases and other miscellaneous assets.
During 2015 , SWIB sold its final four communities containing 1,410 apartment homes, for an aggregate sales price of $283,700,000 . The Company's proportionate share of the gain in accordance with GAAP for the four dispositions was $3,853,000 . In conjunction with the disposition of these communities, SWIB repaid $148,866,000 of related indebtedness on its credit facility at par.
The Residual Liabilities include most existing or future litigation and claims related to Archstones operations for periods before the close of the Archstone Acquisition, except for (i)claims that principally relate to the physical condition of the assets acquired directly by the Company or Equity Residential, which generally remain the sole responsibility of the Company or Equity Residential, as applicable, and (ii)certain tax and other litigation between Archstone and various equity holders F-21 Table of Contents in Archstone related to periods before the close of the Archstone Acquisition, and claims which may arise due to changes in the capital structure of Archstone that occurred prior to closing, for which the seller has agreed to indemnify the Company and Equity Residential. The Company and Equity Residential jointly control the Residual JV and the Company holds a 40.0% economic interest in the Residual JV.
During 2015 , the Company recognized equity in income of unconsolidated real estate entities of $10,601,000 primarily associated with the settlement of outstanding legal claims against third parties, partially offset by losses on the sale of land  from the Residual JV.
During 2015 , the Company entered into a joint venture agreement to purchase land and pursue entitlements and pre-development activity for a mixed-use development project in Sudbury, MA, including multifamily apartment homes, retail, senior housing and age-restricted housing. The Company has a 60.0% ownership interest in the venture. The venture is considered a variable interest entity, though the Company is not considered to be the primary beneficiary because the Company and its third party partner share control of the joint venture as approval from both parties is required for decisions about the pre-development and related activities to be performed by the venture. During 2015 , the Company contributed $5,688,000 to the venture for the Company's share of land acquisition and pre-development costs. The Company's investment in the joint venture is reported as a component of investments in unconsolidated real estate entities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
The following is a combined summary of the financial position of the entities accounted for using the equity method as of the dates presented, excluding amounts associated with the Residual JV (dollars in thousands): 12/31/15 12/31/14 Assets: Real estate, net $ 1,392,833 $ 1,617,627 Other assets (1) 57,044 68,693 Total assets $ 1,449,877 $ 1,686,320 Liabilities and partners' capital: Mortgage notes payable and credit facility, net (1) $ 947,205 $ 976,531 Other liabilities 20,471 23,130 Partners' capital 482,201 686,659 Total liabilities and partners' capital $ 1,449,877 $ 1,686,320 _________________________________ (1) 2014 amounts reflect certain reclassifications as a result of the retrospective adjustment of the presentation of deferred financing costs discussed in Note 1, "Change in Accounting Principle." The following is a combined summary of the operating results of the entities accounted for using the equity method, for the years presented, excluding amounts associated with the Residual JV (dollars in thousands): For the year ended 12/31/15 12/31/14 12/31/13 Rental and other income $ 173,578 $ 198,939 $ 212,994 Operating and other expenses (67,962 ) (80,301 ) (86,434 ) Gain on sale of communities 98,899 333,221 96,152 Interest expense, net (45,517 ) (61,458 ) (61,404 ) Depreciation expense (45,324 ) (52,116 ) (61,002 ) Net income $ 113,674 $ 338,285 $ 100,306 In conjunction with the formation of AvalonBay Value Added Fund,L.P. ("Fund I") and Fund II, and the acquisition of the U.S. Fund, AC JV and Brandywine, the Company incurred costs in excess of its equity in the underlying net assets of the respective investments. These costs represent $40,978,000 and $43,709,000 at December31, 2015 and 2014 , respectively, of the respective investment balances. These amounts are being amortized over the lives of the underlying assets as a component of equity in income (loss) of unconsolidated entities on the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income.
F-22 Table of Contents The following is a summary of the Company's equity in income (loss) of unconsolidated entities for the years presented (dollars in thousands): For the year ended 12/31/15 12/31/14 12/31/13 Fund I (1) $ 871 $ 475 $ 10,924 Fund II (2) 32,211 24,808 6,206 U.S. Fund 2,052 342 (661 ) AC JV 511 1,579 2,569 CVP I,LLC (3) 1,812 113,127 5,783 MVP I,LLC (4) 22,453 1,651 1,137 Brandywine (1,474 ) 828 661 Residual JV (5) 11,582 3,547 (38,332 ) Arna Valley ViewLP (6)  2,406  Avalon Del Rey,LLC (7)   181 Juanita Village (6)  3 378 Total $ 70,018 $ 148,766 $ (11,154 ) _________________________________ (1) Equity in income for the years ended December31, 2014 and 2013 includes the Company's proportionate share of the gain on the sale of Fund I assets of $944 and $11,484 , respectively.
(2) Equity in income for the years ended December31, 2015 , 2014 and 2013 includes the Company's proportionate share of the gain on the sale of Fund II assets of $29,726 , $21,624 , and $2,790 respectively.
(3) Equity in income for the years ended December31, 2015 , 2014 and 2013 includes $1,289 , $61,218 and $5,527 , respectively, relating to the Company's recognition of its promoted interest. Amount for 2014 also includes $50,478 related to the disposition of Avalon Chrystie Place.
(4) Equity in income for the years ended December31, 2015 , 2014 and 2013 includes $21,340 , $930 and $516 relating to the Company's recognition of its promoted interest. For 2015, $20,680 was from the joint venture partner upon agreement to modify the joint venture agreement to eliminate the Company's promoted interest from associated distribution for future return calculations. Prospectively, earnings and distributions will be based on the Company's 25.0% equity interest in the venture.
(5) Equity in income (loss) from this entity for 2013 includes certain expensed Archstone Acquisition costs borne by the venture.
(6) The Company's equity in income for this entity represents its residual profits from the sale of the community.
(7) During 2012, the Company purchased its joint venture partner's interest in this venture.
Investments in Consolidated Real Estate Entities On February27, 2013, pursuant to an asset purchase agreement dated November26, 2012, the Company, together with Equity Residential, acquired, directly or indirectly, all of the assets owned by Archstone Enterprise LP ("Archstone," which has since changed its name to Jupiter Enterprise LP), including all of the ownership interests in joint ventures and other entities owned by Archstone, and assumed Archstones liabilities, both known and unknown, with certain limited exceptions. Under the terms of the purchase agreement, the Company acquired approximately 40.0% of Archstone's assets and liabilities and Equity Residential acquired approximately 60.0% of Archstones assets and liabilities (the Archstone Acquisition).
The Company expenses transaction costs associated with acquisition activity as they are incurred. To the extent the Company receives amounts related to acquired communities for periods prior to their acquisition, the Company reports these receipts, net with expensed acquisition costs. Expensed transaction costs associated with the acquisitions made by the Company in 2015 and 2013 , including those for the Archstone Acquisition in 2013 , totaled $3,806,000 and $44,052,000 , respectively. These amounts are reported as a component of expensed acquisition, development and other pursuit costs on the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income. In 2014 , the Company received amounts related to communities acquired in the Archstone Acquisition, for periods prior to the Companys ownership, in excess of acquisition costs incurred, resulting in a net recovery of $7,681,000 . These amounts are primarily comprised of property tax and mortgage insurance refunds.
F-23 Table of Contents In conjunction with the development of Avalon Sheepshead Bay, the Company entered into a joint venture agreement to construct a mixed-use building that will contain rental apartments, for-sale residential condominium units and related common elements. The Company owns a 70.0% interest in the venture and will have all of the rights and obligations associated with the rental apartments, and the venture partner owns the remaining 30.0% interest and will have all of the rights and obligations associated with the for-sale condominium units. The Company is responsible for the development and construction of the structure, and is providing a loan to the venture partner for the venture partner's share of costs. As of December31, 2015 , the Company has a receivable from the venture partner in the amount of $8,126,000 , reported as a component of prepaid expenses and other assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The loan provided to the venture partner will be repaid with the proceeds received from the sale of the residential condominium units. The venture is considered a variable interest entity, and the Company consolidates its interest in the rental apartments and common areas, and accounts for the for-sale component of the venture as an unconsolidated investment.
6.
Real Estate Disposition Activities During 2015 , the Company sold three wholly-owned communities, containing an aggregate of 851 apartment homes for an aggregate gross sales price of $265,500,000 and an aggregate gain in accordance with GAAP of $115,625,000 . In addition, during 2015 , the Company sold two undeveloped land parcels and air rights, representing the right to increase density for future residential development, for $23,820,000 , resulting in a gain in accordance with GAAP of $9,647,000 .
Details regarding the real estate sales are summarized in the following table (dollars in thousands): Community Name Location Period of sale Apartment homes Debt Gross sales price Net proceeds Avalon on Stamford Harbor Stamford, CT Q115 323 $  $ 115,500 $ 112,504 Other real estate dispositions (1) New York Metro region Q215 N/A  23,820 23,337 Avalon Lyndhurst Lyndhurst, NJ Q315 328  99,000 96,574 Avalon Charles Pond Coram, NY Q415 200  51,000 49,748 Total of 2015 asset sales 851 $  $ 289,320 $ 282,163 Total of 2014 asset sales 1,337 $ 16,341 (2) $ 304,250 $ 281,125 Total of 2013 asset sales (3) 3,299 $  $ 932,880 $ 919,442 _________________________________ (1) Includes two undeveloped land parcels and air rights, representing the right to increase density for future residential development.
(2) Amount includes $10,427 principal amount secured by Oakwood Philadelphia and $5,914 principal amount of secured borrowings repaid by the Company for eight other operating communities, the aggregate of which is included in determining net proceeds.
(3) Total of 2013 asset sales excludes the disposition of development rights located in Hingham, MA and Brooklyn, NY, for total net proceeds of $1,313 .
As of December31, 2015 , the Company had one community that qualified as held for sale. The assets of the community are primarily composed of land and related real estate improvements.
The results of operations for Avalon on Stamford Harbor, Avalon Lyndhurst and Avalon Charles Pond are included in income from continuing operations on the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income.
The operations for any real estate assets sold from January 1, 2013 through December31, 2015 and which were classified as held for sale and discontinued operations as of and for periods prior to December 31, 2013, and thus not subject to the new guidance for discontinued operations presentation and disclosure, as discussed in Note 1, Organization, Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies, have been presented as income from discontinued operations in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income.
The following is a summary of income from discontinued operations for the periods presented (dollars in thousands): F-24 Table of Contents For the year ended 12/31/15 12/31/14 12/31/13 Rental income $  $ 579 $ 42,874 Operating and other expenses  (269 ) (12,661 ) Interest expense, net    Loss on extinguishment of debt    Depreciation expense   (13,500 ) Income (loss) from discontinued operations $  $ 310 $ 16,713 7.
Commitments and Contingencies Employment Agreements and Arrangements The Company had employment agreements with two executive officers which expired on December 31, 2015, in accordance with their terms. The Company has not entered into any new employment agreements with executive officers.
The standard restricted stock and option agreements used by the Company in its compensation program provide that upon an employee's termination without cause or the employee's Retirement (as defined in the agreement), all outstanding stock options and restricted shares of stock held by the employee will vest, and the employee will have up to 12 months to exercise any options then held. Under the agreements, Retirement generally means a termination of employment and other business relationships, other than for cause, after attainment of age 50 , provided that (i)the employee has worked for the Company for at least 10 years, (ii)the employee's age at Retirement plus years of employment with the Company equals at least 70 , (iii)the employee provides at least six months written notice of his intent to retire, and (iv)the employee enters into a one year non-compete and employee non-solicitation agreement.
The Company also has an Officer Severance Program (the "Program"), which applies only in connection with a sale of the Company for the benefit of those officers of the Company who do not have employment agreements. Under the Program, in the event an officer who is not otherwise covered by a severance arrangement is terminated (other than for cause), or the officer chooses to terminate his or her employment for good reason (as defined), in either case within 18 months following a sale event (as defined) of the Company, such officer will generally receive a cash lump sum payment equal to a multiple of the officer's covered compensation (base salary plus annual cash bonus). The multiple is one times for vice presidents and senior vice presidents, and two times for executive vice presidents. The officer's restricted stock and options would also vest. Costs related to the Company's employment agreements and the Program are deferred and recognized over the requisite service period when considered by management to be probable and estimable.
Legal Contingencies The Company accounts for recoveries from legal matters as a reduction in the legal and related costs incurred associated with the matter, with recoveries in excess of these costs reported as a gain or, where appropriate, a reduction in the basis of a community to which the suit related. During the year ended December 31, 2014 , the Company received $1,933,000 in legal recoveries. There were no material receipts during the years ended December31, 2015 and 2013 , excluding amounts for the Residual JV in 2015.
In January 2015, a fire occurred at the Companys Avalon at Edgewater apartment community located in Edgewater, New Jersey ("Edgewater"). Edgewater consisted of two residential buildings.
One building, containing 240 apartment homes, was destroyed. The second building, containing 168 apartment homes, suffered minimal damage and has been repaired. See Note 13, "Subsequent Events," for discussion of the related insurance settlement.
The Company is aware that third parties incurred significant property damage and are claiming other losses, such as relocation costs, as a result of the fire. The Company has established protocols for processing claims and has encouraged any party who sustained a loss to contact the Companys insurance carrier to file a claim.
To date, four putative class action lawsuits have been filed against the Company on behalf of Avalon at Edgewater residents and others who may have been harmed by the fire. The court has consolidated these actions in the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey.  In addition, 18 lawsuits representing approximately 145 individual plaintiffs have been filed in the Superior Court of New Jersey Bergen County - Law Division.  These cases have been consolidated by the court. The Company believes that it has meritorious defenses to the extent of damages claimed.  Having incurred applicable deductibles, the Company currently believes that all of its remaining liability to third parties will be substantially covered by its insurance policies. However, the Company can give no assurances in this regard and continues to evaluate this matter.
F-25 Table of Contents The Company is involved in various other claims and/or administrative proceedings unrelated to the Edgewater fire that arise in the ordinary course of its business. While no assurances can be given, the Company does not currently believe that any of these other outstanding litigation matters, individually or in the aggregate, will have a material adverse effect on its financial condition or results of operations.
Lease Obligations The Company owns 16 apartment communities and two commercial properties located on land subject to land leases expiring between October 2026 and March 2142 . The leases for 13 apartment communities, of which two represent dual-branded communities with one underlying land lease, and the two commercial properties, are accounted for as operating leases recognizing rental expense on a straight-line basis over the lease term. These leases have varying escalation terms, and five of these leases have purchase options exercisable through 2095. The Company incurred costs of $21,295,000 , $21,664,000 and $17,996,000 in the years ended December31, 2015 , 2014 and 2013 , respectively, related to operating leases.
Three apartment communities are located on land subject to a land lease which are accounted for as capital leases, of which two represent dual-branded communities with one underlying capital land lease. In addition, the Company is party to a lease for a portion of the parking garage adjacent to a development community, accounted for as a capital lease. The Company has a total lease obligation of $37,783,000 reported as a component of accrued expenses and other liabilities. Each of these land leases accounted for as capital leases have options for the Company to purchase the land at some point during the lease terms which expire in 2046 and 2086.
The following table details the future minimum lease payments under the Company's current leases (dollars in thousands): Payments due by period 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 Thereafter Operating Lease Obligations $ 21,056 $ 20,629 $ 20,807 $ 20,894 $ 18,675 $ 1,143,535 Capital Lease Obligations (1) (2) 2,098 18,866 1,065 1,067 1,069 45,620 $ 23,154 $ 39,495 $ 21,872 $ 21,961 $ 19,744 $ 1,189,155 _________________________________ (1) Aggregate capital lease payments include $29,069 in interest costs, with the timing of certain lease payments for capital land leases determined by completion of the construction of the associated apartment community.
(2) Capital lease assets of $39,019 and $31,784 as of December31, 2015 and 2014 , respectively, are included as a component of land and improvements or building and improvements on the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets.
8.
Segment Reporting The Company's reportable operating segments include Established Communities, Other Stabilized Communities and Development/Redevelopment Communities. Annually as of January1, the Company determines which of its communities fall into each of these categories and generally maintains that classification throughout the year for the purpose of reporting segment operations, unless disposition or redevelopment plans regarding a community change.
Established Communities (also known as Same Store Communities) are consolidated communities where a comparison of operating results from the prior year to the current year is meaningful, as these communities were owned and had stabilized occupancy and operating expenses as of the beginning of the prior year. The Established Communities for the year ended December31, 2015 , are communities that are consolidated for financial reporting purposes, had stabilized occupancy as of January1, 2014 , are not conducting or planning to conduct substantial redevelopment activities and are not held for sale or planned for disposition within the current year period. A community is considered to have stabilized occupancy at the earlier of (i)attainment of 95% physical occupancy or (ii)the one -year anniversary of completion of development or redevelopment.
Other Stabilized Communities includes all other completed communities that have stabilized occupancy, as defined above. Other Stabilized Communities do not include communities that are conducting or planning to conduct substantial redevelopment activities within the current year.
Development/Redevelopment Communities consists of communities that are under construction and have not received a certificate of occupancy for the entire community, and where substantial redevelopment is in progress or is planned to begin during the current year and communities under lease-up that had not reached stabilized occupancy, as defined above, as of January1, 2015 .
In addition, the Company owns land for future development and has other corporate assets that are not allocated to an operating segment.
F-26 Table of Contents The Company's segment disclosures present the measure(s) used by the chief operating decision maker for purposes of assessing each segment's performance. The Company's chief operating decision maker is comprised of several members of its executive management team who use net operating income ("NOI") as the primary financial measure for Established Communities and Other Stabilized Communities. NOI is defined by the Company as total property revenue less direct property operating expenses, including property taxes, and excluding corporate-level income (including management, development and other fees), corporate-level property management and other indirect operating expenses, investments and investment management expenses, expensed acquisition, development and other pursuit costs, net interest expense, gain (loss) on extinguishment of debt, loss on interest rate contract, general and administrative expense, joint venture income (loss), depreciation expense, corporate income tax expense, casualty (gain) loss and impairment loss, net, gain on sale of real estate assets, gain on sale of discontinued operations, income from discontinued operations and net operating income from real estate assets sold or held for sale, not classified as discontinued operations. Although the Company considers NOI a useful measure of a community's or communities' operating performance, NOI should not be considered an alternative to net income or net cash flow from operating activities, as determined in accordance with GAAP. NOI excludes a number of income and expense categories as detailed in the reconciliation of NOI to net income.
A reconciliation of NOI to net income for years ended December31, 2015 , 2014 and 2013 is as follows (dollars in thousands): For the year ended 12/31/15 12/31/14 12/31/13 Net income $ 741,733 $ 697,327 $ 352,771 Indirect operating expenses, net of corporate income 56,973 49,055 41,554 Investments and investment management expense 4,370 4,485 3,990 Expensed acquisition, development and other pursuit costs, net of recoveries 6,822 (3,717 ) 45,050 Interest expense, net (1) 175,615 180,618 172,402 (Gain) loss on extinguishment of debt, net (26,736 ) 412 14,921 Loss on interest rate contract   51,000 General and administrative expense 42,396 41,425 39,573 Equity in (income) loss of unconsolidated entities (70,018 ) (148,766 ) 11,154 Depreciation expense (1) 477,923 442,682 560,215 Income tax expense 1,861 9,368  Casualty (gain) loss and impairment loss, net (10,542 )   Gain on sale of real estate assets (125,272 ) (85,415 ) (240 ) Gain on sale of discontinued operations  (37,869 ) (278,231 ) Income from discontinued operations  (310 ) (16,713 ) Net operating income from real estate assets sold or held for sale, not classified as discontinued operations (10,920 ) (27,357 ) (31,388 ) Net operating income $ 1,264,205 $ 1,121,938 $ 966,058 _________________________________ (1) Includes amounts associated with assets sold or held for sale, not classified as discontinued operations.
The following is a summary of NOI from real estate assets sold or held for sale, not classified as discontinued operations, for the periods presented (dollars in thousands): For the year ended 12/31/2015 12/31/2014 12/31/2013 Rental income from real estate assets sold or held for sale, not classified as discontinued operations $ 17,973 $ 44,645 $ 50,638 Operating expenses real estate assets sold or held for sale, not classified as discontinued operations (7,053 ) (17,288 ) (19,250 ) Net operating income from real estate assets sold or held for sale, not classified as discontinued operations $ 10,920 $ 27,357 $ 31,388 F-27 Table of Contents The primary performance measure for communities under development or redevelopment depends on the stage of completion. While under development, management monitors actual construction costs against budgeted costs as well as lease-up pace and rent levels compared to budget.
The following table provides details of the Company's segment information as of the dates specified (dollars in thousands). The segments are classified based on the individual community's status at the beginning of the given calendar year. Therefore, each year the composition of communities within each business segment is adjusted. Accordingly, the amounts between years are not directly comparable. Segment information for the years ended December31, 2015 , 2014 and 2013 have been adjusted for the real estate assets that were sold from January1, 2013 through December31, 2015 , or otherwise qualify as held for sale and/or discontinued operations as of December31, 2015 , as described in Note 6, "Real Estate Disposition Activities." F-28 Table of Contents Total revenue NOI % NOI change from prior year Gross real estate (1) For the year ended December 31, 2015 Established New England $ 190,802 $ 120,026 2.8 % $ 1,460,746 Metro NY/NJ 382,457 268,986 3.3 % 3,152,361 Mid-Atlantic 209,013 145,497 0.2 % 2,177,823 Pacific Northwest 76,589 54,751 8.2 % 721,040 Northern California 273,432 210,226 11.9 % 2,414,184 Southern California 252,530 173,919 9.4 % 2,465,432 Total Established (2) 1,384,823 973,405 5.8 % 12,391,586 Other Stabilized 221,063 145,170 N/A 2,040,269 Development / Redevelopment 222,222 145,630 N/A 4,238,967 Land Held for Future Development N/A N/A N/A 484,377 Non-allocated (3) 9,947 N/A N/A 73,372 Total $ 1,838,055 $ 1,264,205 12.7 % $ 19,228,571 For the year ended December 31, 2014 (4) Established New England $ 172,153 $ 109,745 0.8 % $ 1,333,854 Metro NY/NJ 305,496 215,239 3.1 % 2,251,697 Mid-Atlantic 98,590 69,498 (2.5 )% 647,374 Pacific Northwest 54,230 37,637 7.0 % 500,247 Northern California 174,527 132,899 8.2 % 1,402,444 Southern California 139,841 95,626 5.2 % 1,225,328 Total Established (2) 944,837 660,644 3.6 % 7,360,944 Other Stabilized 497,677 343,415 N/A 6,057,783 Development / Redevelopment 186,852 117,879 N/A 3,972,180 Land Held for Future Development N/A N/A N/A 180,516 Non-allocated (3) 11,050 N/A N/A 32,444 Total $ 1,640,416 $ 1,121,938 16.1 % $ 17,603,867 For the year ended December 31, 2013 Established New England $ 152,800 $ 99,484 2.4 % $ 1,189,040 Metro NY/NJ 236,920 164,827 4.6 % 1,793,902 Mid-Atlantic 100,548 71,851 0.1 % 633,598 Pacific Northwest 46,564 31,283 5.3 % 444,825 Northern California 141,038 106,745 11.7 % 1,233,851 Southern California 119,024 81,182 5.1 % 1,058,883 Total Established (2) 796,894 555,372 5.0 % 6,354,099 Other Stabilized 486,701 331,338 N/A 6,621,825 Development / Redevelopment 117,186 79,348 N/A 3,024,035 Land Held for Future Development N/A N/A N/A 300,364 Non-allocated (3) 11,502 N/A N/A 10,279 Total $ 1,412,283 $ 966,058 47.2 % $ 16,310,602 _________________________________ (1) Does not include gross real estate assets held for sale of $39,528 , $245,449 and $489,720 as of December31, 2015 , 2014 and 2013 , respectively.
(2) Gross real estate for the Company's Established Communities includes capitalized additions of approximately $74,982 , $52,635 and $33,553 in 2015 , 2014 and 2013 , respectively.
(3) Revenue represents third-party management, accounting, and developer fees and miscellaneous income which are not allocated to a reportable segment.
(4) Results for the year ended December31, 2014 reflect the operating segments determined as of January 1, 2014, which include stabilized communities acquired as part of the Archstone Acquisition in the Other Stabilized segment.
F-29 Table of Contents 9.
Stock-Based Compensation Plans The Company has a stock incentive plan, the 2009 Stock Option and Incentive Plan (the "2009 Plan"), which includes an authorization to issue shares of the Company's common stock, par value $0.01 per share. At December31, 2015 , the Company has 1,364,678 shares remaining available to issue under the 2009 Plan, exclusive of shares that may be issued to satisfy currently outstanding awards such as stock options or performance awards. In addition, any awards that were outstanding under the Company's1994 Stock Option and Incentive Plan (the "1994 Plan") on May21, 2009, the date the Company adopted the 2009 Plan, that are subsequently forfeited, canceled, surrendered or terminated (other than by exercise) will become available for awards under the 2009 Plan. The 2009 Plan provides for various types of equity awards to associates, officers, non-employee directors and other key personnel of the Company and its subsidiaries. The types of awards that may be granted under the 2009 Plan include restricted stock, stock options that qualify as incentive stock options ("ISOs") under Section422 of the Code, non-qualified stock options, stock appreciation rights and performance awards, among others. The 2009 Plan will expire on May21, 2019.
Information with respect to stock options granted under the 2009 and 1994 Plans is as follows: 2009 Plan shares Weighted average exercise price per share 1994 Plan shares Weighted average exercise price per share Options Outstanding, December 31, 2012 307,554 $ 112.67 719,830 $ 105.40 Exercised (19,949 ) 84.43 (24,292 ) 79.42 Granted 215,230 129.03   Forfeited (1,267 ) 131.56 (4,012 ) 127.56 Options Outstanding, December 31, 2013 501,568 $ 120.77 691,526 $ 106.19 Exercised (157,454 ) 116.40 (342,743 ) 99.03 Granted     Forfeited (4,052 ) 131.05 (76,381 ) 142.66 Options Outstanding, December 31, 2014 340,062 $ 122.67 272,402 $ 104.96 Exercised (90,884 ) 124.01 (190,207 ) 105.70 Granted     Forfeited     Options Outstanding, December 31, 2015 249,178 $ 122.17 82,195 $ 103.27 Options Exercisable: December 31, 2013 184,167 $ 107.18 691,526 $ 106.19 December 31, 2014 185,227 $ 116.71 272,402 $ 104.96 December 31, 2015 188,081 $ 119.98 82,195 $ 103.27 The following summarizes the exercise prices and contractual lives of options outstanding as of December31, 2015 : 2009 Plan Number of Options RangeExercise Price Weighted Average Remaining Contractual Term (in years) 25,622 $70.00 - $79.99 4.1 38,326 110.00 - 119.99 5.1 44,135 120.00 - 129.99 7.2 141,095 130.00 - 139.99 6.6 249,178 F-30 Table of Contents 1994 Plan Number of Options RangeExercise Price Weighted Average Remaining Contractual Term (in years) 9,854 $40.00 - $49.99 3.1 35,511 80.00 - 89.99 2.1 7,174 90.00 - 99.99 0.1 29,656 140.00 - 149.99 1.1 82,195 Options outstanding under the 2009 and 1994 Plans at December31, 2015 had an intrinsic value of $15,438,000 and $6,647,000 , respectively. Options exercisable under the 2009 and 1994 Plans at December31, 2015 had an intrinsic value of $12,066,000 and $6,647,000 , respectively. Options exercisable under the 2009 and 1994 Plans had a weighted average contractual life of 6.3 years and 1.7 years, respectively. The intrinsic value of options exercised during 2015 , 2014 and 2013 was $18,080,000 , $20,028,000 and $2,395,000 , respectively.
The cost related to stock-based employee compensation for employee stock options included in the determination of net income is based on estimated forfeitures for the given year. Estimated forfeitures are adjusted to reflect actual forfeitures at the end of the vesting period. The following table summarizes the weighted average fair value of employee stock options for 2013 and the associated assumptions used to calculate the value. There were no stock options granted in 2015 and 2014.
2013 Weighted average fair value per share $ 26.78 Life of options (in years) 5.0 Dividend yield 3.7 % Volatility 34.00 % Risk-free interest rate 0.91 % During 2013, the Company adopted a revised compensation framework under which share-based compensation will be granted, composed of annual restricted stock awards for which one third of the award will vest annually over a three year period, and multi-year long term incentive performance awards. Under the multi-year long term incentive component of the revised framework, the Company will grant a target number of performance awards, with the ultimate award determined by the total shareholder return of the Company's common stock and/or operating performance metrics, measured in each case over a measurement period of up to three years. The performance awards will be earned in the form of restricted stock, or upon election of the recipient, up to 25% in the form of stock options, for which one third of the award will vest annually over an additional three year period following the completion of the performance cycle.
In general, performance awards are forfeited if the employee's employment terminates for any reason prior to the measurement date. However, for performance awards with performance periods beginning on or after January 1, 2015, after the first year of the performance period, if the employee's employment terminates on account of  death, disability, retirement, or termination without cause at a time when the employee meets the age and service requirements for retirement, the employee shall vest in a pro rata portion of the award (based on the employee's service time during the performance period), with such vested portion to be earned and converted into shares at the end of the performance period based on actual achievement under the performance award.
Information with respect to performance awards granted is as follows: F-31 Table of Contents Performance awards Weighted average grant date fair value per award Outstanding at December 31, 2012  $  Granted (1) 191,008 70.00 Forfeited (1,243 ) 70.00 Outstanding at December 31, 2013 189,765 $ 70.00 Granted (2) 136,276 117.43 Change in awards based on performance (3) (46,790 ) 74.37 Converted to restricted stock (16,209 ) 74.37 Forfeited (23,140 ) 76.22 Outstanding at December 31, 2014 239,902 $ 95.20 Granted (4) 85,636 148.49 Change in awards based on performance (3) 14,697 78.50 Converted to restricted stock (95,826 ) 78.50 Forfeited (6,143 ) 110.34 Outstanding at December 31, 2015 238,266 $ 119.65 _________________________________ (1) The amount of restricted stock ultimately earned is based on the total shareholder return metrics related to the Companys common stock.
(2) The amount of restricted stock ultimately earned is based on the total shareholder return metrics related to the Companys common stock for 60,391 performance awards and financial metrics related to operating performance and leverage metrics of the Company for 75,885 performance awards.
(3) Represents the change in the number of performance awards converted to restricted stock shares based on performance achievement.
(4) The amount of restricted stock ultimately earned is based on the total shareholder return metrics related to the Companys common stock for 55,162 performance awards and financial metrics related to operating performance and leverage metrics of the Company for 30,474 performance awards.
The Company used a Monte Carlo model to assess the compensation cost associated with the portion of the performance awards determined by using total shareholder return measures. The assumptions used are as follows: 2015 2014 2013 Dividend yield 3.0% 3.6% 3.3% Estimated volatility over the life of the plan (1) 12.0% - 17.3% 17.6% - 18.6% 17.0% - 21.0% Risk free rate 0.07% - 1.09% 0.04% - 0.72% 0.09% - 0.46% Estimated performance award value based on total shareholder return measure $139.18 $103.20 $70.00 _________________________________ (1) Estimated volatility of the life of the plan is using 50% historical volatility and 50% implied volatility.
For the portion of the performance awards determined by using financial metrics, the estimated compensation cost was based on the baseline share value of $166.23 , $128.97 and $130.23 , for the years ended December31, 2015 , 2014 and 2013 , respectively,  and the Company's estimate of corporate achievement for the financial metrics.
Information with respect to restricted stock granted is as follows: F-32 Table of Contents Restricted stock shares Restricted stock shares weighted average grant date fair value per share Restricted stock shares converted from performance awards Outstanding at December 31, 2012 202,218 $ 107.58  Granted 123,977 129.21  Vested (141,673 ) 104.69  Forfeited (2,439 ) 123.05  Outstanding at December 31, 2013 182,083 $ 124.35  Granted 98,954 129.35 16,209 Vested (93,963 ) 120.81 (5,073 ) Forfeited (7,767 ) 128.62 (203 ) Outstanding at December 31, 2014 179,307 $ 129.06 10,933 Granted 61,953 173.04 95,826 Vested (91,847 ) 130.75 (8,412 ) Forfeited (1,529 ) 151.86  Outstanding at December 31, 2015 147,884 $ 146.21 98,347 Total employee stock-based compensation cost recognized in income was $14,703,000 , $13,314,000 and $17,775,000 for the years ended December31, 2015 , 2014 and 2013 , respectively, and total capitalized stock-based compensation cost was $9,667,000 , $5,457,000 and $8,379,000 for the years ended December31, 2015 , 2014 and 2013 , respectively. At December31, 2015 , there was a total unrecognized compensation cost of $99,000 for unvested stock options and $21,096,000 for unvested restricted stock and performance awards, which does not include estimated forfeitures. The unrecognized compensation cost for unvested stock options and restricted stock and performance awards is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of 0.1 and 3.6 years, respectively.
The Company estimates the forfeiture of stock options and recognizes compensation cost net of the estimated forfeitures. The estimated forfeitures included in compensation cost are adjusted to reflect actual forfeitures at the end of the vesting period. The forfeiture rate at December31, 2015 was 1.0% . The application of estimated forfeitures did not materially impact compensation expense for the years ended December31, 2015 , 2014 and 2013 .
Employee Stock Purchase Plan In October 1996, the Company adopted the 1996 Non-Qualified Employee Stock Purchase Plan (as amended, the "ESPP"). Initially 1,000,000 shares of common stock were reserved for issuance under this plan. There are currently 704,160 shares remaining available for issuance under the ESPP. Full-time employees of the Company generally are eligible to participate in the ESPP if, as of the last day of the applicable election period, they have been employed by the Company for at least one month. All other employees of the Company are eligible to participate provided that, as of the applicable election period, they have been employed by the Company for 12 months. Under the ESPP, eligible employees are permitted to acquire shares of the Company's common stock through payroll deductions, subject to maximum purchase limitations. During 2013, the purchase period was a period of seven months beginning April1 and ending October30. The Company modified the ESPP beginning in 2014, establishing two purchase periods. The first purchase period begins January1 and ends June10, and the second purchase period begins July1 and ends December10. The purchase price for common stock purchased under the plan is 85% of the lesser of the fair market value of the Company's common stock on the first day of the applicable purchase period or the last day of the applicable purchase period. The offering dates, purchase dates and duration of purchase periods may be changed if the change is announced prior to the beginning of the affected date or purchase period. The Company issued 10,667 , 9,848 and 9,260 shares and recognized compensation expense of $321,000 , $407,000 and $174,000 under the ESPP for the years ended December31, 2015 , 2014 and 2013 , respectively. The Company accounts for transactions under the ESPP using the fair value method prescribed by accounting guidance applicable to entities that use employee share purchase plans.
F-33 Table of Contents 10.
Related Party Arrangements Unconsolidated Entities The Company manages unconsolidated real estate entities for which it receives asset management, property management, development and redevelopment fee revenue. From these entities, the Company earned fees of $9,947,000 , $11,050,000 and $11,502,000 in the years ended December31, 2015 , 2014 and 2013 , respectively. These fees are recognized on an accrual basis when earned in accordance with the accounting guidance applicable to revenue recognition, and are included in management, development and other fees on the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income. In addition, the Company has outstanding receivables associated with its management role of $3,832,000 and $6,868,000 as of December31, 2015 and 2014 , respectively.
Director Compensation Directors of the Company who are also employees receive no additional compensation for their services as a director. Following each annual meeting of stockholders, non-employee directors receive (i)a number of shares of restricted stock (or deferred stock awards) having a value of $130,000 and (ii)a cash payment of $60,000 , payable in quarterly installments of $15,000 . The number of shares of restricted stock (or deferred stock awards) is calculated based on the closing price on the day of the award. Non-employee directors may elect to receive all or a portion of cash payments in the form of a deferred stock award. In addition, beginning in May 2014, the Lead Independent Director receives an additional annual fee of $25,000 payable in equal quarterly installments of $6,250 , and non-employee directors serving as the chairperson of the Audit, Compensation and Nominating Committees receive additional cash compensation of $10,000 per year payable in quarterly installments of $2,500 .
The Company recorded non-employee director compensation expense relating to restricted stock grants and deferred stock awards in the amount of $1,135,000 , $1,049,000 and $992,000 for the years ended December31, 2015 , 2014 and 2013 , respectively, as a component of general and administrative expense. Deferred compensation relating to these restricted stock grants and deferred stock awards to non-employee directors was $488,000 , $452,000 and $417,000 on December31, 2015 , 2014 and 2013 , respectively.  During the year ended December31, 2015 , the Company issued 46,589 shares in conjunction with the conversion of deferred stock awards.
11.
Fair Value Financial Instruments Carried at Fair Value Derivative Financial Instruments Currently, the Company uses interest rate swap and interest rate cap agreements to manage its interest rate risk. These instruments are carried at fair value in the Company's financial statements. In adjusting the fair value of its derivative contracts for the effect of counterparty nonperformance risk, the Company has considered the impact of its net position with a given counterparty, as well as any applicable credit enhancements, such as collateral postings, thresholds, mutual puts and guarantees. The Company minimizes its credit risk on these transactions by dealing with major, creditworthy financial institutions which have an A or better credit rating by the Standard& Poor's Ratings Group. As part of its on-going control procedures, the Company monitors the credit ratings of counterparties and the exposure of the Company to any single entity, thus reducing credit risk concentration. The Company believes the likelihood of realizing losses from counterparty nonperformance is remote. Although the Company has determined that the majority of the inputs used to value its derivatives fall within Level2 of the fair value hierarchy, such as interest rate, term to maturity and volatility, the credit valuation adjustments associated with its derivatives use Level3 inputs, such as estimates of current credit spreads, to evaluate the likelihood of default by itself and its counterparties. As of December31, 2015 , the Company assessed the significance of the impact of the credit valuation adjustments on the overall valuation of its derivative positions and has determined it is not significant. As a result, the Company has determined that its derivative valuations are classified in Level2 of the fair value hierarchy.
Hedge ineffectiveness did not have a material impact on earnings of the Company for 2015 or any prior period, and the Company does not anticipate that it will have a material effect in the future.
The following table summarizes the consolidated derivative positions at December31, 2015 (dollars in thousands): F-34 Table of Contents Non-designated Hedges Interest Rate Caps Cash Flow Hedges Interest Rate Caps Cash Flow Hedges Interest Rate Swaps Notional balance $ 725,832 $ 36,731 $ 600,000 Weighted average interest rate (1) 1.8 % 2.7 % N/A Weighted average swapped/capped interest rate 5.8 % 5.9 % 2.3 % Earliest maturity date February 2016 April 2019 May 2016 Latest maturity date June 2020 April 2019 November 2017 _________________________________ (1) For interest rate caps, represents the weighted average interest rate on the hedged debt.
Excluding derivatives executed to hedge secured debt on communities classified as held for sale, the Company had 10 derivatives designated as a cash flow hedge and 15 derivatives not designated as hedges at December31, 2015 . Fair value changes for derivatives not in qualifying hedge relationships for the years ended December31, 2015 and 2014 , were not material. Excluding the forward interest rate protection agreement discussed further below, fair value changes for derivatives not in qualifying hedge relationships for the year ended December31, 2013 were not material. To adjust the Hedging Derivatives in qualifying cash flow hedges to their fair value and recognize the impact of hedge accounting, the Company recorded a decrease to accumulated other comprehensive loss of $11,128,000 , $6,116,000 and $5,892,000 during the years ended December31, 2015 , 2014 and 2013 , respectively. During the year ended December31, 2013, the Company reclassified $59,376,000 of deferred losses from accumulated other comprehensive loss with $51,000,000 recognized as loss on interest rate contract as discussed below, and the balance recorded as a component of interest expense, net. The Company anticipates reclassifying approximately $5,493,000 of hedging losses from accumulated other comprehensive loss into earnings within the next 12months to offset the variability of cash flows of the hedged item during this period. The Company did not have any derivatives designated as fair value hedges as of December31, 2015 and 2014 .
During 2015 , the Company entered into $600,000,000 of forward interest rate swap agreements to reduce the impact of variability in interest rates on a portion of the Company's expected debt issuance activity in 2016 and 2017. At maturity of the agreements, the Company expects to cash settle the contracts and either pay or receive cash for the then current fair value. Assuming that the Company issues the debt as expected, the impact from settling these positions will then be recognized over the life of the issued debt as a yield adjustment.
In 2013, the Company was party to a $215,000,000 forward interest rate protection agreement, which was entered into in 2011 to reduce the impact of variability in interest rates on a portion of its expected debt issuance activity in 2013. The Company settled this position at its maturity in May 2013 with a payment to the counterparty of $51,000,000 , the fair value at the time of settlement. Based on changes in the Company's capital requirements for 2013, the Company deemed it was probable that it would not issue the anticipated debt for which the interest rate protection agreement was transacted. During the year ended December31, 2013, the Company recognized a loss of $51,000,000 for the forward interest rate protection agreement in loss on interest rate contract on the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income.
Redeemable Noncontrolling Interests The Company provided redemption options (the "Puts") that allow joint venture partners of the Company to require the Company to purchase their interests in the investment at a guaranteed minimum amount related to three ventures. The Puts are payable in cash. The Company determines the fair value of the Puts based on unobservable inputs considering the assumptions that market participants would make in pricing the obligations, applying a guaranteed rate of return to the joint venture partners' net capital contribution balances as of period end. Given the significance of the unobservable inputs, the valuations are classified in Level3 of the fair value hierarchy.
The Company issued units of limited partnership interest in DownREITs which provide the DownREIT limited partners the ability to present all or some of their units for redemption for cash as determined by the partnership agreement. Under the DownREIT agreements, for each limited partnership unit, the limited partner is entitled to receive cash in the amount equal to the fair value of the Company's common stock on or about the date of redemption. In lieu of cash redemption, the Company may elect to exchange such units for an equal number of shares of the Company's common stock. The limited partnership units in the DownREITs are valued using the market price of the Company's common stock, a Level1 price under the fair value hierarchy.
F-35 Table of Contents Financial Instruments Not Carried at Fair Value Cash and Cash Equivalents Cash and cash equivalent balances are held with various financial institutions, within principal protected accounts. The Company monitors credit ratings of these financial institutions and the concentration of cash and cash equivalent balances with any one financial institution and believes the likelihood of realizing material losses related to cash and cash equivalent balances is remote. Cash and cash equivalents are carried at their face amounts, which reasonably approximate their fair values and are Level 1 within the fair value hierarchy.
Other Financial Instruments Rents receivable, accounts and construction payable and accrued expenses and other liabilities are carried at their face amounts, which reasonably approximate their fair values.
The Company values its unsecured notes using quoted market prices, a Level 1 price within the fair value hierarchy. The Company values its notes payable and outstanding amounts under the Credit Facility and Term Loan using a discounted cash flow analysis on the expected cash flows of each instrument. This analysis reflects the contractual terms of the instrument, including the period to maturity, and uses observable market-based inputs, including interest rate curves. The process also considers credit valuation adjustments to appropriately reflect the Companys nonperformance risk. The Company has concluded that the value of its notes payable and amounts outstanding under its Credit Facility and Term Loan are Level 2 prices as the majority of the inputs used to value its positions fall within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy.
Financial Instruments Measured/Disclosed at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis The following table summarizes the classification between the three levels of the fair value hierarchy of the Company's financial instruments measured/disclosed at fair value on a recurring basis (dollars in thousands): Description Total Fair Value Quoted Prices in Active Markets for Identical Assets (Level1) Significant Other Observable Inputs (Level2) Significant Unobservable Inputs (Level3) 12/31/2015 Non Designated Hedges Interest Rate Caps $ 26 $  $ 26 $  Cash Flow Hedges Interest Rate Caps 5  5  Interest Rate Swaps 5,422  5,422  Put(s) (8,181 )   (8,181 ) DownREIT units (1,381 ) (1,381 )   Indebtedness Unsecured notes (3,668,417 ) (3,668,417 )   Mortgage notes payable and unsecured term loan (2,700,341 )  (2,700,341 )  Total $ (6,372,867 ) $ (3,669,798 ) $ (2,694,888 ) $ (8,181 ) 12/31/2014 Non Designated Hedges Interest Rate Caps $ 50 $  $ 50 $  Cash Flow Hedges Interest Rate Caps 58  58  Put(s) (11,104 )   (11,104 ) DownREIT units (1,226 ) (1,226 )   Indebtedness Unsecured notes (2,874,147 ) (2,874,147 )   Mortgage notes payable and unsecured term loan (3,683,875 )  (3,683,875 )  Total $ (6,570,244 ) $ (2,875,373 ) $ (3,683,767 ) $ (11,104 ) F-36 Table of Contents 12.
Quarterly Financial Information The following summary represents the unaudited quarterly results of operations for the years ended December31, 2015 and 2014 (dollars in thousands, except per share amounts): For the three months ended (1) 3/31/15 6/30/15 9/30/15 12/31/15 Total revenue $ 442,367 $ 457,459 $ 475,360 $ 480,840 Income from continuing operations $ 208,053 $ 172,253 $ 206,076 $ 155,352 Total discontinued operations $  $  $  $  Net income $ 208,053 $ 172,253 $ 206,076 $ 155,352 Net income attributable to common stockholders $ 208,144 $ 172,324 $ 206,142 $ 155,428 Net income per common share - basic $ 1.57 $ 1.30 $ 1.54 $ 1.13 Net income per common share - diluted $ 1.56 $ 1.29 $ 1.53 $ 1.13 For the three months ended (1) 3/31/14 6/30/14 9/30/14 12/31/14 Total revenue $ 400,075 $ 413,806 $ 430,525 $ 440,656 Income from continuing operations $ 103,420 $ 172,197 $ 241,001 $ 142,530 Total discontinued operations $ 38,179 $  $  $  Net income $ 141,599 $ 172,197 $ 241,001 $ 142,530 Net income attributable to common stockholders $ 141,739 $ 158,086 $ 241,100 $ 142,642 Net income per common share - basic $ 1.09 $ 1.22 $ 1.83 $ 1.08 Net income per common share - diluted $ 1.09 $ 1.21 $ 1.83 $ 1.08 _________________________________ (1) Amounts may not equal full year results due to rounding.
13.
Subsequent Events The Company has evaluated subsequent events through the date on which this Form10-K was filed, the date on which these financial statements were issued, and identified the items below for discussion.
In January and February 2016: The Company acquired two communities:  Avalon Hoboken located in Hoboken, NJ, contains 217 apartment homes and was acquired for a purchase price of $129,700,000 . In conjunction with the acquisition, the Company assumed a fixed rate secured mortgage note with a principal balance of $67,904,000 and an effective interest rate of 4.18% maturing in December 2020 .
Avalon Potomac Yard located in Alexandria, VA, contains 323 apartment homes and was acquired for a purchase price of $108,250,000 .
The Company entered into $450,000,000 of forward interest rate swap agreements to reduce the impact of variability in interest rates on a portion of the Company's expected debt issuance activity in 2016 and 2017. At maturity of the agreements, the Company expects to cash settle the contracts and either pay or receive cash for the then current fair value. Assuming that the Company issues the debt as expected, the impact from settling these positions will then be recognized over the life of the issued debt as a yield adjustment.
The Company extended the maturity of the Credit Facility from April 2017 to April 2020 , and amended other provisions in the Credit Facility. In addition, pursuant to an option available under the terms of the Company's Credit Facility, with the approval of the syndicate of lenders, the Company increased the aggregate facility size from $1,300,000,000 to $1,500,000,000 (the "Credit Facility Increase"). The Company may further extend the term for up to nine months, provided the Company is not in default and upon payment of a $1,500,000 extension fee. In connection with the Credit Facility Increase, the applicable margin over reference rates used to determine the applicable interest rates on the Company's borrowings from time to time decreased. The Credit Facility bears interest at varying levels based on the London Interbank Offered Rate ("LIBOR"), rating levels achieved on the Company's unsecured notes and on a maturity schedule selected by the Company. The current stated pricing is LIBOR plus 0.825% per annum.
F-37 Table of Contents The stated spread over LIBOR can vary from LIBOR plus 0.80% to LIBOR plus 1.55% based on the Company's credit ratings. In addition, a competitive bid option is available for borrowings up to 65% of the Credit Facility amount, which allows banks that are part the lender consortium to bid to make loans at a rate that is lower than the stated rate if market conditions allow. In connection with the Credit Facility Increase, the annual facility fee was also amended to lower the fee to 0.125% from 0.15% , approximately $1,875,000 annually based on the $1,500,000,000 facility size and based on the Company's current credit rating.
Avalon at Stratford was substituted as collateral for the outstanding fixed rate secured mortgage loan associated with Eaves Trumbull.
The U.S. Fund sold two communities:  Archstone Boca Town Center, located in Boca Raton, FL, containing 252 apartment homes was sold for $56,300,000 .
Avalon Kips Bay, located in New York, NY, containing 209 apartment homes was sold for $173,000,000 .
Fund II sold Eaves Rancho San Diego, located in El Cajon, CA, containing 676 apartment homes for $158,000,000 .
The Company reached a final settlement with its property and casualty insurers regarding the property damage and lost income related to the Edgewater fire, resulting in aggregate insurance recoveries for these aspects of this matter, after self-insurance and deductibles, of $73,008,000 . The Company received $44,000,000 of these recoveries in 2015 and expects to receive the remaining $29,008,000 during the three months ending March 31, 2016, which will be recognized as casualty gain and business interruption insurance recovery.
F-38 Table of Contents AVALONBAY COMMUNITIES,INC.
REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION December 31, 2015 (Dollars in thousands) 2015 2014 2015 Initial Cost Total Cost Community City and state Land and improvements Building / Construction in Progress& Improvements Costs Subsequent to Acquisition / Construction Land and improvements Building / Construction in Progress& Improvements Total Accumulated Depreciation Total Cost, Net of Accumulated Depreciation Total Cost, Net of Accumulated Depreciation Encumbrances Year of Completion/ Acquisition ESTABLISHED COMMUNITIES NEW ENGLAND Boston, MA Avalon at Lexington Lexington, MA $ 2,124 $ 12,546 $ 9,368 $ 2,124 $ 21,914 $ 24,038 $ 12,335 $ 11,703 $ 12,438 $  1994 Eaves Quincy Quincy, MA 1,743 14,662 9,694 1,743 24,356 26,099 12,650 13,449 13,883  1986/1995 Avalon Essex Peabody, MA 5,184 16,258 2,073 5,184 18,331 23,515 10,039 13,476 14,036  2000 Avalon Oaks West Wilmington, MA 3,318 13,333 951 3,318 14,284 17,602 6,915 10,687 11,155 15,649 2002 Avalon Orchards Marlborough, MA 2,983 17,932 2,260 2,983 20,192 23,175 9,744 13,431 14,061 16,621 2002 Avalon at Newton Highlands Newton, MA 11,039 45,531 3,784 11,039 49,315 60,354 21,314 39,040 40,699  2003 Avalon at The Pinehills Plymouth, MA 6,876 30,401 317 6,876 30,718 37,594 8,915 28,679 29,624  2004 Eaves Peabody Peabody, MA 4,645 18,937 12,388 4,645 31,325 35,970 10,860 25,110 25,925  1962/2004 Avalon at Bedford Center Bedford, MA 4,258 20,535 483 4,258 21,018 25,276 7,355 17,921 18,513  2006 Avalon at Chestnut Hill Chestnut Hill, MA 14,572 45,820 2,168 14,572 47,988 62,560 15,529 47,031 48,794 39,088 2007 Avalon Shrewsbury Shrewsbury, MA 5,152 30,458 1,358 5,152 31,816 36,968 10,191 26,777 27,455 19,867 2007 Avalon at Lexington Hills Lexington, MA 8,691 79,104 1,686 8,691 80,790 89,481 22,275 67,206 69,510  2008 Avalon Acton Acton, MA 13,124 48,944 2,309 13,124 51,253 64,377 13,789 50,588 51,216 45,000 2008 Avalon at Hingham Shipyard Hingham, MA 12,218 41,655 791 12,218 42,446 54,664 10,635 44,029 45,193  2009 Avalon Sharon Sharon, MA 4,719 25,446 461 4,719 25,907 30,626 6,952 23,674 24,480  2008 Avalon Northborough Northborough, MA 8,144 52,348 198 8,144 52,546 60,690 11,066 49,624 51,444  2009 Avalon Blue Hills Randolph, MA 11,110 34,690 644 11,110 35,334 46,444 8,135 38,309 39,070  2009 Avalon Cohasset Cohasset, MA 8,802 46,184 87 8,802 46,271 55,073 6,561 48,512 50,141  2012 Avalon Andover Andover, MA 4,276 21,862 45 4,276 21,907 26,183 2,892 23,291 24,065 14,179 2012 Avalon Prudential Center II (1) Boston, MA 8,776 35,496 39,910 8,776 75,406 84,182 27,376 56,806 50,955  1968/1998 Avalon Prudential Center I (1) Boston, MA 8,002 32,370 31,040 8,002 63,410 71,412 24,589 46,823 37,373  1968/1998 Eaves North Quincy Quincy, MA 11,940 39,400 2,814 11,940 42,214 54,154 6,253 47,901 49,047  1977/2013 Avalon at Center Place Providence, RI  26,816 10,563  37,379 37,379 21,374 16,005 17,127  1991/1997 Total Boston, MA $ 161,696 $ 750,728 $ 135,392 $ 161,696 $ 886,120 $ 1,047,816 $ 287,744 $ 760,072 $ 766,204 $ 150,404 Fairfield-New Haven, CT Eaves Stamford Stamford, CT $ 5,956 $ 23,993 $ 12,798 $ 5,956 $ 36,791 $ 42,747 $ 21,445 $ 21,302 $ 22,648 $  1991 Avalon Wilton I Wilton, CT 2,116 14,664 5,841 2,116 20,505 22,621 10,601 12,020 12,766  1997 Avalon New Canaan New Canaan, CT 4,834 22,990 1,700 4,834 24,690 29,524 11,179 18,345 17,206  2002 AVA Stamford Stamford, CT 13,819 56,499 4,834 13,819 61,333 75,152 27,600 47,552 49,851  2002/2002 F-39 Table of Contents AVALONBAY COMMUNITIES,INC.
REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION (Continued) December 31, 2015 (Dollars in thousands) 2015 2014 2015 Initial Cost Total Cost Community City and state Land and improvements Building / Construction in Progress& Improvements Costs Subsequent to Acquisition / Construction Land and improvements Building / Construction in Progress& Improvements Total Accumulated Depreciation Total Cost, Net of Accumulated Depreciation Total Cost, Net of Accumulated Depreciation Encumbrances Year of Completion/ Acquisition Avalon Danbury Danbury, CT 4,933 30,638 797 4,933 31,435 36,368 11,478 24,890 25,889  2005 Avalon Darien Darien, CT 6,926 34,579 2,074 6,926 36,653 43,579 15,216 28,363 29,457  2004 Avalon Milford I Milford, CT 8,746 22,699 1,014 8,746 23,713 32,459 9,357 23,102 23,677  2004 Avalon Norwalk Norwalk, CT 11,320 62,910 440 11,320 63,350 74,670 11,606 63,064 64,883  2011 Avalon Huntington Shelton, CT 5,277 20,029 137 5,277 20,166 25,443 5,132 20,311 21,000  2008 Avalon Wilton II Wilton, CT 6,604 23,763  6,604 23,763 30,367 3,853 26,514 27,371  2011 Total Fairfield-New Haven, CT $ 70,531 $ 312,764 $ 29,635 $ 70,531 $ 342,399 $ 412,930 $ 127,467 $ 285,463 $ 294,748 $  TOTAL NEW ENGLAND $ 232,227 $ 1,063,492 $ 165,027 $ 232,227 $ 1,228,519 $ 1,460,746 $ 415,211 $ 1,045,535 $ 1,060,952 $ 150,404 METRO NY/NJ New York City, NY Avalon Riverview I (1) Long Island City, NY $  $ 94,061 $ 6,647 $  $ 100,708 $ 100,708 $ 45,214 $ 55,494 $ 57,407 $  2002 Avalon Bowery Place New York, NY 18,575 75,009 2,383 18,575 77,392 95,967 24,711 71,256 73,529 93,800 2006 Avalon Riverview North Long Island City, NY  166,099 2,906  169,005 169,005 47,953 121,052 125,242  2008 Avalon Bowery Place II New York, NY 9,106 47,199 3,298 9,106 50,497 59,603 13,624 45,979 46,034  2007 Avalon Morningside Park New York, NY  114,233 1,037  115,270 115,270 28,731 86,539 90,555 100,000 2009 Avalon Fort Greene Brooklyn, NY 83,038 216,802 860 83,038 217,662 300,700 42,653 258,047 266,954  2010 Avalon Midtown West New York, NY 154,730 180,253 12,299 154,730 192,552 347,282 29,236 318,046 323,993 100,500 1998/2013 Avalon Clinton North (1) New York, NY 84,069 105,821 7,300 84,069 113,121 197,190 16,054 181,136 183,684 147,000 2008/2013 Avalon Clinton South New York, NY 71,421 89,851 5,238 71,421 95,089 166,510 13,810 152,700 155,715 121,500 2007/2013 Total New York City, NY $ 420,939 $ 1,089,328 $ 41,968 $ 420,939 $ 1,131,296 $ 1,552,235 $ 261,986 $ 1,290,249 $ 1,323,113 $ 562,800 New York - Suburban Avalon Commons Smithtown, NY $ 4,679 $ 28,286 $ 5,810 $ 4,679 $ 34,096 $ 38,775 $ 19,958 $ 18,817 $ 19,961 $  1997 Eaves Nanuet Nanuet, NY 8,428 45,660 4,371 8,428 50,031 58,459 30,225 28,234 29,666 62,279 1998 Avalon Willow Mamaroneck, NY 6,207 40,791 1,727 6,207 42,518 48,725 23,346 25,379 26,575  2000 Avalon Court Melville, NY 9,228 50,063 3,104 9,228 53,167 62,395 30,699 31,696 33,465  1997 The Avalon Bronxville, NY 2,889 28,324 8,003 2,889 36,327 39,216 17,178 22,038 23,324  1999 Avalon at Glen Cove Glen Cove, NY 7,871 59,969 1,463 7,871 61,432 69,303 24,106 45,197 46,967  2004 Avalon Pines Coram, NY 8,700 62,931 946 8,700 63,877 72,577 22,979 49,598 51,424  2005 Avalon Glen Cove North Glen Cove, NY 2,577 37,336 364 2,577 37,700 40,277 11,287 28,990 30,129  2007 Avalon White Plains White Plains, NY 15,391 137,353 210 15,391 137,563 152,954 32,264 120,690 125,356  2009 F-40 Table of Contents AVALONBAY COMMUNITIES,INC.
REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION (Continued) December 31, 2015 (Dollars in thousands) 2015 2014 2015 Initial Cost Total Cost Community City and state Land and improvements Building / Construction in Progress& Improvements Costs Subsequent to Acquisition / Construction Land and improvements Building / Construction in Progress& Improvements Total Accumulated Depreciation Total Cost, Net of Accumulated Depreciation Total Cost, Net of Accumulated Depreciation Encumbrances Year of Completion/ Acquisition Avalon Rockville Centre Rockville Centre, NY 32,212 78,807 10 32,212 78,817 111,029 11,305 99,724 102,539  2012 Avalon Green II Elmsford, NY 27,765 77,561  27,765 77,561 105,326 10,116 95,210 97,995  2012 Avalon Garden City Garden City, NY 18,205 49,372  18,205 49,372 67,577 5,802 61,775 63,578  2013 Avalon Westbury Westbury, NY 69,620 43,781 9,882 69,620 53,663 123,283 10,584 112,699 112,091 81,175 2006/2013 Total New York - Suburban $ 213,772 $ 740,234 $ 35,890 $ 213,772 $ 776,124 $ 989,896 $ 249,849 $ 740,047 $ 763,070 $ 143,454 New Jersey Avalon Cove Jersey City, NJ 8,760 82,422 21,119 8,760 103,541 112,301 57,650 54,651 58,185  1997 Eaves Lawrenceville (1) Lawrenceville, NJ 14,650 60,486 7,744 14,650 68,230 82,880 26,489 56,391 56,757  1994 Avalon Princeton Junction West Windsor, NJ 5,585 22,382 20,927 5,585 43,309 48,894 22,942 25,952 27,366  1988/1993 Avalon at Florham Park Florham Park, NJ 6,647 34,906 2,552 6,647 37,458 44,105 19,437 24,668 25,723  2001 Avalon at Freehold Freehold, NJ 4,119 30,514 1,050 4,119 31,564 35,683 15,051 20,632 21,574 34,441 2002 Avalon Run East Lawrenceville, NJ 6,766 45,366 1,107 6,766 46,473 53,239 17,909 35,330 36,765 36,904 2005 Avalon at Tinton Falls Tinton Falls, NJ 7,939 33,173 392 7,939 33,565 41,504 8,928 32,576 33,453  2008 Avalon at West Long Branch West Long Branch, NJ 2,721 22,940 56 2,721 22,996 25,717 4,335 21,382 22,182  2011 Avalon North Bergen North Bergen, NJ 8,984 30,997 919 8,984 31,916 40,900 4,000 36,900 37,694  2012 Avalon at Wesmont Station Wood-Ridge, NJ 14,682 41,635 700 14,682 42,335 57,017 5,385 51,632 53,332  2012 Avalon Hackensack at Riverside Hackensack, NJ  44,625   44,625 44,625 3,903 40,722 42,218  2013 Avalon at Wesmont Station II Wood-Ridge, NJ 6,502 16,863  6,502 16,863 23,365 1,603 21,762 22,372  2013 Total New Jersey $ 87,355 $ 466,309 $ 56,566 $ 87,355 $ 522,875 $ 610,230 $ 187,632 $ 422,598 $ 437,621 $ 71,345 TOTAL Metro NY/NJ $ 722,066 $ 2,295,871 $ 134,424 $ 722,066 $ 2,430,295 $ 3,152,361 $ 699,467 $ 2,452,894 $ 2,523,804 $ 777,599 MID-ATLANTIC Washington Metro/Baltimore, MD Avalon at Foxhall Washington, DC $ 6,848 $ 27,614 $ 12,556 $ 6,848 $ 40,170 $ 47,018 $ 26,355 $ 20,663 $ 21,183 $ 55,484 1982/1994 Avalon at Gallery Place Washington, DC 8,800 39,658 1,994 8,800 41,652 50,452 17,969 32,483 33,603 43,110 2003 AVA H Street Washington, DC 7,425 25,282  7,425 25,282 32,707 2,755 29,952 30,925  2013 Avalon The Albemarle Washington, DC 25,140 52,459 4,608 25,140 57,067 82,207 8,821 73,386 74,336  1966/2013 Eaves Tunlaw Gardens Washington, DC 16,430 22,902 2,100 16,430 25,002 41,432 4,006 37,426 38,195  1944/2013 The Statesman Washington, DC 38,140 35,352 3,715 38,140 39,067 77,207 7,149 70,058 71,130  1961/2013 Eaves Glover Park Washington, DC 9,580 26,532 2,146 9,580 28,678 38,258 4,422 33,836 34,681  1953/2013 AVA Van Ness Washington, DC 22,890 58,691 3,656 22,890 62,347 85,237 8,982 76,255 78,192  1978/2013 F-41 Table of Contents AVALONBAY COMMUNITIES,INC.
REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION December 31, 2015 (Dollars in thousands) 2015 2014 2015 Initial Cost Total Cost Community City and state Land and improvements Building / Construction in Progress& Improvements Costs Subsequent to Acquisition / Construction Land and improvements Building / Construction in Progress& Improvements Total Accumulated Depreciation Total Cost, Net of Accumulated Depreciation Total Cost, Net of Accumulated Depreciation Encumbrances Year of Completion/ Acquisition Avalon First & M Washington, DC 43,700 153,950 2,665 43,700 156,615 200,315 17,656 182,659 187,806  2012/2013 Avalon at Fairway Hills Columbia, MD 8,603 34,432 16,092 8,603 50,524 59,127 30,110 29,017 30,674  1987/1996 Eaves Washingtonian Center I North Potomac, MD 2,608 11,707 876 2,608 12,583 15,191 8,378 6,813 7,031  1996 Eaves Washingtonian Center II North Potomac, MD 1,439 6,846 220 1,439 7,066 8,505 4,215 4,290 4,495  1998 Eaves Columbia Town Center Columbia, MD 8,802 35,536 11,612 8,802 47,148 55,950 17,857 38,093 39,494  1986/1993 Avalon at Grosvenor Station Bethesda, MD 29,159 53,001 2,141 29,159 55,142 84,301 23,018 61,283 63,142  2004 Avalon at Traville Rockville, MD 14,365 55,398 2,756 14,365 58,154 72,519 23,257 49,262 49,241 73,057 2004 Avalon Russett Laurel, MD 10,200 47,524 2,813 10,200 50,337 60,537 7,350 53,187 54,836 39,972 1999/2013 Eaves Fair Lakes Fairfax, VA 6,096 24,400 8,352 6,096 32,752 38,848 18,921 19,927 20,965  1989/1996 AVA Ballston Arlington, VA 7,291 29,177 16,117 7,291 45,294 52,585 25,962 26,623 28,291  1990 Eaves Fairfax City Fairfax, VA 2,152 8,907 5,390 2,152 14,297 16,449 7,157 9,292 9,825  1988/1997 Avalon Park Crest Tysons Corner, VA 13,554 63,527 31 13,554 63,558 77,112 7,227 69,885 72,195  2013 Eaves Fairfax Towers Falls Church, VA 17,889 74,727 1,879 17,889 76,606 94,495 12,627 81,868 84,552  1978/2011 Avalon Ballston Place Arlington, VA 38,490 123,645 3,907 38,490 127,552 166,042 15,895 150,147 154,371  2001/2013 Eaves Tysons Corner Vienna, VA 16,030 45,420 2,581 16,030 48,001 64,031 7,362 56,669 58,495  1980/2013 Avalon Ballston Square Arlington, VA 71,640 215,937 12,072 71,640 228,009 299,649 31,147 268,502 274,405  1992/2013 Avalon Courthouse Place Arlington, VA 56,550 178,032 8,868 56,550 186,900 243,450 25,150 218,300 223,792 140,332 1999/2013 Avalon Reston Landing Reston, VA 26,710 83,084 4,405 26,710 87,489 114,199 13,195 101,004 104,285  2000/2013 TOTAL MID-ATLANTIC $ 510,531 $ 1,533,740 $ 133,552 $ 510,531 $ 1,667,292 $ 2,177,823 $ 376,943 $ 1,800,880 $ 1,850,140 $ 351,955 PACIFIC NORTHWEST Seattle, WA Avalon Redmond Place Redmond, WA $ 4,558 $ 18,368 $ 10,247 $ 4,558 $ 28,615 $ 33,173 $ 15,527 $ 17,646 $ 18,264 $  1991/1997 Avalon at Bear Creek Redmond, WA 6,786 27,641 3,595 6,786 31,236 38,022 18,732 19,290 20,397  1998/1998 Avalon Bellevue Bellevue, WA 6,664 24,119 1,726 6,664 25,845 32,509 13,251 19,258 20,223 25,103 2001 Avalon RockMeadow Bothell, WA 4,777 19,765 2,214 4,777 21,979 26,756 11,565 15,191 15,748  2000/2000 Avalon ParcSquare Redmond, WA 3,789 15,139 2,670 3,789 17,809 21,598 9,306 12,292 12,971  2000/2000 Avalon Brandemoor Lynnwood, WA 8,608 36,679 1,811 8,608 38,490 47,098 19,547 27,551 28,800  2001/2001 AVA Belltown Seattle, WA 5,644 12,733 888 5,644 13,621 19,265 6,856 12,409 12,877 61,769 2001 Avalon Meydenbauer Bellevue, WA 12,697 77,451 951 12,697 78,402 91,099 20,691 70,408 73,031  2008 Avalon Towers Bellevue Bellevue, WA  123,030 815  123,845 123,845 23,476 100,369 104,838  2011 AVA Queen Anne Seattle, WA 12,081 41,618 347 12,081 41,965 54,046 5,917 48,129 49,689  2012 Avalon Brandemoor II Lynnwood, WA 2,655 11,343  2,655 11,343 13,998 1,849 12,149 12,563  2011 AVA Ballard Seattle, WA 16,460 46,926 918 16,460 47,844 64,304 4,620 59,684 60,540  2013 F-42 Table of Contents AVALONBAY COMMUNITIES,INC.
REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION December 31, 2015 (Dollars in thousands) 2015 2014 2015 Initial Cost Total Cost Community City and state Land and improvements Building / Construction in Progress& Improvements Costs Subsequent to Acquisition / Construction Land and improvements Building / Construction in Progress& Improvements Total Accumulated Depreciation Total Cost, Net of Accumulated Depreciation Total Cost, Net of Accumulated Depreciation Encumbrances Year of Completion/ Acquisition Eaves Redmond Campus Redmond, WA 22,580 88,001 5,689 22,580 93,690 116,270 13,745 102,525 105,671  1991/2013 Archstone Redmond Lakeview Redmond, WA 10,250 26,842 1,965 10,250 28,807 39,057 4,440 34,617 35,621  1987/2013 TOTAL PACIFIC NORTHWEST $ 117,549 $ 569,655 $ 33,836 $ 117,549 $ 603,491 $ 721,040 $ 169,522 $ 551,518 $ 571,233 $ 86,872 NORTHERN CALIFORNIA San Jose, CA Avalon Campbell Campbell, CA $ 11,830 $ 47,828 $ 13,436 $ 11,830 $ 61,264 $ 73,094 $ 30,932 $ 42,162 $ 44,418 $ 38,800 1995 Eaves San Jose San Jose, CA 12,920 53,047 18,868 12,920 71,915 84,835 31,204 53,631 56,089  1985/1996 Avalon on the Alameda San Jose, CA 6,119 50,225 1,860 6,119 52,085 58,204 29,869 28,335 29,953 50,754 1999 Avalon Mountain View Mountain View, CA 9,755 39,393 9,960 9,755 49,353 59,108 27,178 31,930 33,117 17,700 1986 Avalon at Cahill Park San Jose, CA 4,765 47,600 1,484 4,765 49,084 53,849 22,565 31,284 33,049  2002 Avalon Towers on the Peninsula Mountain View, CA 9,560 56,136 1,118 9,560 57,254 66,814 27,109 39,705 41,684  2002 Avalon Willow Glen San Jose, CA 46,060 81,957 4,096 46,060 86,053 132,113 13,139 118,974 122,271  2002/2013 Eaves West Valley San Jose, CA 90,890 113,628 7,402 90,890 121,030 211,920 19,133 192,787 196,891 75,092 1970/2013 Eaves Mountain View at Middlefield Mountain View, CA 64,070 69,018 5,112 64,070 74,130 138,200 12,194 126,006 128,519  1969/2013 Total San Jose, CA $ 255,969 $ 558,832 $ 63,336 $ 255,969 $ 622,168 $ 878,137 $ 213,323 $ 664,814 $ 685,991 $ 182,346 Oakland - East Bay, CA Avalon Fremont Fremont, CA $ 10,746 $ 43,399 $ 5,270 $ 10,746 $ 48,669 $ 59,415 $ 29,899 $ 29,516 $ 31,121 $  1992/1994 Eaves Pleasanton Pleasanton, CA 11,610 46,552 21,421 11,610 67,973 79,583 35,631 43,952 46,042  1988/1994 Eaves Union City Union City, CA 4,249 16,820 2,918 4,249 19,738 23,987 12,153 11,834 12,499  1973/1996 Eaves Fremont Fremont, CA 6,581 26,583 9,731 6,581 36,314 42,895 20,388 22,507 23,696  1985/1994 Avalon Union City Union City, CA 14,732 104,025 710 14,732 104,735 119,467 23,419 96,048 99,329  2009 Avalon Walnut Creek Walnut Creek, CA  146,035 2,208  148,243 148,243 27,731 120,512 125,195 137,789 2010 Eaves Walnut Creek (1) Walnut Creek, CA 30,320 82,375 11,632 30,320 94,007 124,327 12,658 111,669 108,646  1987/2013 Avalon Walnut Ridge II Walnut Creek, CA 27,190 57,041 3,386 27,190 60,427 87,617 9,093 78,524 80,540  1989/2013 Total Oakland - East Bay, CA $ 105,428 $ 522,830 $ 57,276 $ 105,428 $ 580,106 $ 685,534 $ 170,972 $ 514,562 $ 527,068 $ 137,789 San Francisco, CA Eaves Daly City Daly City, CA 4,230 9,659 18,742 4,230 28,401 32,631 15,793 16,838 17,747  1972/1997 AVA Nob Hill San Francisco, CA 5,403 21,567 6,934 5,403 28,501 33,904 15,043 18,861 19,825 20,800 1990/1995 Eaves San Rafael San Rafael, CA 5,982 16,885 24,396 5,982 41,281 47,263 19,364 27,899 29,067  1973/1996 Eaves Foster City Foster City, CA 7,852 31,445 11,207 7,852 42,652 50,504 22,693 27,811 29,298  1973/1994 Eaves Pacifica Pacifica, CA 6,125 24,796 2,727 6,125 27,523 33,648 16,591 17,057 17,867 17,600 1971/1995 F-43 Table of Contents AVALONBAY COMMUNITIES,INC.
REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION (Continued) December 31, 2015 (Dollars in thousands) 2015 2014 2015 Initial Cost Total Cost Community City and state Land and improvements Building / Construction in Progress& Improvements Costs Subsequent to Acquisition / Construction Land and improvements Building / Construction in Progress& Improvements Total Accumulated Depreciation Total Cost, Net of Accumulated Depreciation Total Cost, Net of Accumulated Depreciation Encumbrances Year of Completion/ Acquisition Avalon Sunset Towers San Francisco, CA 3,561 21,321 15,034 3,561 36,355 39,916 17,333 22,583 23,640  1961/1996 Eaves Diamond Heights San Francisco, CA 4,726 19,130 5,844 4,726 24,974 29,700 13,772 15,928 16,670  1972/1994 Avalon at Mission Bay North San Francisco, CA 14,029 78,452 2,855 14,029 81,307 95,336 36,002 59,334 61,896 68,890 2003 Avalon at Mission Bay III San Francisco, CA 28,687 119,156 75 28,687 119,231 147,918 26,937 120,981 125,215  2009 Avalon Ocean Avenue San Francisco, CA 5,544 50,883 1,759 5,544 52,642 58,186 6,740 51,446 53,340  2012 Avalon San Bruno San Bruno, CA 40,780 68,684 3,028 40,780 71,712 112,492 10,028 102,464 104,932 64,450 2004/2013 Avalon San Bruno II San Bruno, CA 23,787 44,934 1,669 23,787 46,603 70,390 6,080 64,310 65,862 30,514 2007/2013 Avalon San Bruno III San Bruno, CA 33,303 62,910 2,412 33,303 65,322 98,625 8,517 90,108 92,222 55,650 2010/2013 Total San Francisco, CA $ 184,009 $ 569,822 $ 96,682 $ 184,009 $ 666,504 $ 850,513 $ 214,893 $ 635,620 $ 657,581 $ 257,904 TOTAL NORTHERN CALIFORNIA $ 545,406 $ 1,651,484 $ 217,294 $ 545,406 $ 1,868,778 $ 2,414,184 $ 599,188 $ 1,814,996 $ 1,870,640 $ 578,039 SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA Los Angeles, CA Avalon Woodland Hills Woodland Hills, CA $ 23,828 $ 40,372 $ 47,354 $ 23,828 $ 87,726 $ 111,554 $ 39,443 $ 72,111 $ 74,700 $  1989/1997 Eaves Warner Center Woodland Hills, CA 7,045 12,986 9,445 7,045 22,431 29,476 13,887 15,589 16,318  1979/1998 Avalon at Glendale Glendale, CA  42,564 1,319  43,883 43,883 18,482 25,401 26,796  2003 Avalon Burbank Burbank, CA 14,053 56,827 23,979 14,053 80,806 94,859 32,102 62,757 65,454  1988/2002 Avalon Camarillo Camarillo , CA 8,446 40,290 409 8,446 40,699 49,145 13,574 35,571 36,646  2006 Avalon Wilshire Los Angeles, CA 5,459 41,182 1,058 5,459 42,240 47,699 12,740 34,959 36,418  2007 Avalon Encino Encino, CA 12,789 49,073 576 12,789 49,649 62,438 12,575 49,863 51,445  2008 Avalon Warner Place Canoga Park, CA 7,920 44,848 224 7,920 45,072 52,992 12,078 40,914 42,429  2008 Eaves Phillips Ranch Pomona, CA 9,796 41,740 429 9,796 42,169 51,965 7,038 44,927 46,266  1989/2011 Eaves San Dimas San Dimas, CA 1,916 7,819 1,037 1,916 8,856 10,772 1,391 9,381 9,165  1978/2011 Eaves San Dimas Canyon San Dimas, CA 2,953 12,428 322 2,953 12,750 15,703 2,135 13,568 13,909  1981/2011 Eaves Cerritos Artesia, CA 8,305 21,195 1,430 8,305 22,625 30,930 2,787 28,143 28,901  1973/2012 Avalon Playa Vista Los Angeles, CA 30,900 72,008 2,160 30,900 74,168 105,068 8,456 96,612 97,584  2006/2012 Avalon Simi Valley Simi Valley, CA 42,020 73,361 4,564 42,020 77,925 119,945 11,883 108,062 110,634  2007/2013 Avalon Studio City II Studio City, CA 4,626 22,954 1,222 4,626 24,176 28,802 3,353 25,449 26,306  1991/2013 Avalon Studio City III Studio City, CA 15,756 78,178 3,607 15,756 81,785 97,541 11,304 86,237 88,924  2002/2013 Avalon Calabasas Calabasas, CA 42,720 107,642 8,461 42,720 116,103 158,823 18,337 140,486 143,201 99,166 1988/2013 Avalon Oak Creek Agoura Hills, CA 43,540 79,974 4,999 43,540 84,973 128,513 13,868 114,645 117,487 85,288 2004/2013 Avalon Del Mar Station Pasadena, CA 20,560 106,556 3,363 20,560 109,919 130,479 13,319 117,160 120,743 76,471 2006/2013 Eaves Old Town Pasadena Pasadena, CA 9,110 15,371 1,376 9,110 16,747 25,857 2,686 23,171 23,616 15,669 1972/2013 F-44 Table of Contents AVALONBAY COMMUNITIES,INC.
REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION (Continued) December 31, 2015 (Dollars in thousands) 2015 2014 2015 Initial Cost Total Cost Community City and state Land and improvements Building / Construction in Progress& Improvements Costs Subsequent to Acquisition / Construction Land and improvements Building / Construction in Progress& Improvements Total Accumulated Depreciation Total Cost, Net of Accumulated Depreciation Total Cost, Net of Accumulated Depreciation Encumbrances Year of Completion/ Acquisition Eaves Thousand Oaks Thousand Oaks, CA 13,950 20,211 2,153 13,950 22,364 36,314 4,166 32,148 33,006 27,411 1992/2013 Eaves Los Feliz Los Angeles, CA 18,940 43,661 3,433 18,940 47,094 66,034 7,096 58,938 60,298 43,258 1989/2013 Eaves Woodland Hills Woodland Hills, CA 68,940 90,549 9,449 68,940 99,998 168,938 17,097 151,841 155,277 104,694 1971/2013 Avalon Thousand Oaks Plaza Thousand Oaks, CA 12,810 22,581 1,873 12,810 24,454 37,264 4,172 33,092 33,972  2002/2013 Total Los Angeles, CA $ 426,382 $ 1,144,370 $ 134,242 $ 426,382 $ 1,278,612 $ 1,704,994 $ 283,969 $ 1,421,025 $ 1,459,495 $ 451,957 Orange County, CA AVA Newport Costa Mesa, CA $ 1,975 $ 3,814 $ 9,801 $ 1,975 $ 13,615 $ 15,590 $ 5,998 $ 9,592 $ 10,100 $  1956/1996 Eaves Mission Viejo Mission Viejo, CA 2,517 9,257 3,466 2,517 12,723 15,240 7,564 7,676 7,400 7,635 1984/1996 Eaves South Coast Costa Mesa, CA 4,709 16,063 12,895 4,709 28,958 33,667 14,897 18,770 19,657  1973/1996 Eaves Santa Margarita Rancho Santa Margarita, CA 4,607 16,911 10,427 4,607 27,338 31,945 13,779 18,166 19,012  1990/1997 Eaves Huntington Beach Huntington Beach, CA 4,871 19,745 9,656 4,871 29,401 34,272 17,769 16,503 17,489  1971/1997 Avalon Anaheim Stadium Anaheim, CA 27,874 69,156 706 27,874 69,862 97,736 16,932 80,804 83,316  2009 Avalon Irvine Irvine, CA 9,911 67,524 68 9,911 67,592 77,503 14,941 62,562 64,983  2010 Avalon Irvine II Irvine, CA 4,358 40,906  4,358 40,906 45,264 4,241 41,023 42,511  2013 Eaves Lake Forest Lake Forest, CA 5,199 21,134 2,131 5,199 23,265 28,464 3,866 24,598 25,441  1975/2011 Eaves Seal Beach Seal Beach, CA 46,790 99,999 4,748 46,790 104,747 151,537 15,067 136,470 140,246  1971/2013 Total Orange County, CA $ 112,811 $ 364,509 $ 53,898 $ 112,811 $ 418,407 $ 531,218 $ 115,054 $ 416,164 $ 430,155 $ 7,635 San Diego, CA Eaves Mission Ridge San Diego, CA $ 2,710 $ 10,924 $ 11,357 $ 2,710 $ 22,281 $ 24,991 $ 12,987 $ 12,004 $ 12,684 $  1960/1997 AVA Cortez Hill San Diego, CA 2,768 20,134 23,497 2,768 43,631 46,399 20,396 26,003 27,513  1973/1998 Avalon Fashion Valley San Diego, CA 19,627 44,972 399 19,627 45,371 64,998 11,485 53,513 55,029  2008 Eaves San Marcos San Marcos, CA 3,277 13,385 982 3,277 14,367 17,644 2,377 15,267 15,653  1988/2011 Eaves Rancho Penasquitos San Diego, CA 6,692 27,143 2,027 6,692 29,170 35,862 4,715 31,147 31,972  1986/2011 Eaves La Mesa La Mesa, CA 9,490 28,482 1,354 9,490 29,836 39,326 4,513 34,813 36,077  1989/2013 Total San Diego, CA $ 44,564 $ 145,040 $ 39,616 $ 44,564 $ 184,656 $ 229,220 $ 56,473 $ 172,747 $ 178,928 $  TOTAL SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA $ 583,757 $ 1,653,919 $ 227,756 $ 583,757 $ 1,881,675 $ 2,465,432 $ 455,496 $ 2,009,936 $ 2,068,578 $ 459,592 TOTAL ESTABLISHED COMMUNITIES $ 2,711,536 $ 8,768,161 $ 911,889 $ 2,711,536 $ 9,680,050 $ 12,391,586 $ 2,715,827 $ 9,675,759 $ 9,945,347 $ 2,404,461 F-45 Table of Contents AVALONBAY COMMUNITIES,INC.
REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION (Continued) December 31, 2015 (Dollars in thousands) 2015 2014 2015 Initial Cost Total Cost Community City and state Land and improvements Building / Construction in Progress& Improvements Costs Subsequent to Acquisition / Construction Land and improvements Building / Construction in Progress& Improvements Total Accumulated Depreciation Total Cost, Net of Accumulated Depreciation Total Cost, Net of Accumulated Depreciation Encumbrances Year of Completion/ Acquisition OTHER STABILIZED Eaves Dublin Dublin, CA $ 5,276 $ 19,642 $ 12,310 $ 5,276 $ 31,952 $ 37,228 $ 15,397 $ 21,831 $ 19,902 $  1989/1997 AVA Burbank Burbank, CA 22,483 28,104 48,165 22,483 76,269 98,752 35,042 63,710 66,594  1961/1997 AVA Pacific Beach San Diego, CA 9,922 40,580 40,107 9,922 80,687 90,609 35,087 55,522 49,113  1969/1997 Eaves Creekside Mountain View, CA 6,546 26,263 21,310 6,546 47,573 54,119 22,428 31,691 33,054  1962/1997 AVA Pasadena Pasadena, CA 8,400 11,547 5,514 8,400 17,061 25,461 1,950 23,511 24,016 11,489 1973/2012 AVA 55 Ninth San Francisco, CA 20,267 97,211 1,135 20,267 98,346 118,613 5,709 112,904 114,536  2014 Avalon Morrison Park San Jose, CA 13,837 64,527  13,837 64,527 78,364 4,128 74,236 76,418  2014 Avalon San Dimas San Dimas, CA 9,141 30,708  9,141 30,708 39,849 1,458 38,391 39,272  2014 Avalon Mission Oaks Camarillo, CA 9,600 34,540 2,889 9,600 37,429 47,029 2,606 44,423 46,907  2014 Toluca Hills Apartments by Avalon Los Angeles, CA 85,450 161,256 11,171 85,450 172,427 257,877 26,708 231,169 236,149  1973/2013 Avalon Berkeley Berkeley, CA 4,500 28,430  4,500 28,430 32,930 1,484 31,446 32,679  2014 Eaves West Valley II San Jose, CA  18,412   18,412 18,412 1,411 17,001 17,676 7,995 2013 Avalon Studio City Studio City, CA 17,658 90,715 4,837 17,658 95,552 113,210 13,012 100,198 102,765  1987/2013 Eaves Trumbull Trumbull, CT 4,414 31,254 3,860 4,414 35,114 39,528 22,039 17,489 18,515 38,852 1997 Avalon Shelton III Shelton, CT 7,749 40,269  7,749 40,269 48,018 3,732 44,286 46,440  2013 Avalon East Norwalk Norwalk, CT 10,395 36,246  10,395 36,246 46,641 2,981 43,660 44,875  2013 Avalon at Stratford Stratford, CT 2,564 27,109  2,564 27,109 29,673 1,322 28,351 29,107  2014 Avalon Oaks Wilmington, MA 2,129 18,302 4,265 2,129 22,567 24,696 11,925 12,771 11,749  1999 Avalon Natick Natick, MA 15,645 64,845  15,645 64,845 80,490 5,752 74,738 76,754 51,230 2013 Avalon at Assembly Row Somerville, MA 8,504  47,432 8,504 47,432 55,936 2,179 53,757 56,158  2015 Eaves Burlington Burlington, MA 7,714 32,502 5,210 7,714 37,712 45,426 3,726 41,700 42,947  1988/2012 Avalon Canton at Blue Hills Canton, MA 6,562 33,890 105 6,562 33,995 40,557 2,014 38,543 38,984  2014 Avalon Burlington Burlington, MA 15,600 58,312 14,929 15,600 73,241 88,841 7,761 81,080 76,409  1989/2013 Avalon at Edgewater (2) Edgewater, NJ 14,528 24,389 1,517 14,528 25,906 40,434 12,981 27,453 50,185  2002 Avalon Somerset Somerset, NJ 18,241 58,343  18,241 58,343 76,584 5,510 71,074 73,201  2013 Avalon Bloomingdale Bloomingdale, NJ 3,006 27,800  3,006 27,800 30,806 2,136 28,670 29,628  2014 Avalon Green Elmsford, NY 1,820 10,525 6,951 1,820 17,476 19,296 8,585 10,711 5,989  1995 AVA High Line New York, NY  155,989   155,989 155,989 3,878 152,111 150,721  2015 Avalon Ossining Ossining, NY 6,390 30,297  6,390 30,297 36,687 1,876 34,811 35,722  2014 Archstone Lexington Flower Mound, TX 4,540 25,946 1,863 4,540 27,809 32,349 4,643 27,706 28,758 16,255 2000/2013 Archstone Toscano Houston, TX 15,607 72,365  15,607 72,365 87,972 5,817 82,155 84,442  2014 Memorial Heights Villages Houston, TX 9,607 42,936  9,607 42,936 52,543 2,232 50,311 51,047  2014 Avalon Tysons Corner Tysons Corner, VA 13,851 43,397 12,485 13,851 55,882 69,733 28,807 40,926 42,570  1996 F-46 Table of Contents AVALONBAY COMMUNITIES,INC.
REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION (Continued) December 31, 2015 (Dollars in thousands) 2015 2014 2015 Initial Cost Total Cost Community City and state Land and improvements Building / Construction in Progress& Improvements Costs Subsequent to Acquisition / Construction Land and improvements Building / Construction in Progress& Improvements Total Accumulated Depreciation Total Cost, Net of Accumulated Depreciation Total Cost, Net of Accumulated Depreciation Encumbrances Year of Completion/ Acquisition Avalon Arlington North Arlington, VA 21,600 59,077  21,600 59,077 80,677 3,601 77,076 78,895  2014 Oakwood Arlington Arlington, VA 18,850 38,545 2,156 18,850 40,701 59,551 5,707 53,844 54,927  1987/2013 AVA University District Seattle, WA 12,594 60,773 293 12,594 61,066 73,660 4,386 69,274 71,367  2014 TOTAL OTHER STABILIZED $ 434,990 $ 1,645,046 $ 248,504 $ 434,990 $ 1,893,550 $ 2,328,540 $ 320,010 $ 2,008,530 $ 2,058,471 $ 125,821 LEASE-UP Avalon Exeter Boston, MA $ 16,313 $ 110,043 $ 148 $ 16,313 $ 110,191 $ 126,504 $ 5,827 $ 120,677 $ 122,588 $  2014 AVA Somerville Somerville, MA 10,902  60,810 10,902 60,810 71,712 2,794 68,918 71,998  2015 AVA Theater District Boston, MA 17,014 160,167  17,014 160,167 177,181 1,924 175,257 133,082  2015 Avalon Marlborough Marlborough, MA 15,312 59,079  15,312 59,079 74,391 931 73,460 46,903  2015 Avalon Framingham Framingham, MA 9,303 34,004  9,303 34,004 43,307 206 43,101 18,335  2015 Avalon Huntington Station Huntington Station, NY 21,896 58,602  21,896 58,602 80,498 2,964 77,534 78,571  2014 Avalon Wharton Wharton, NJ 2,273 48,504  2,273 48,504 50,777 1,698 49,079 48,531  2015 Avalon Bloomfield Station Bloomfield, NJ 10,695 39,897  10,695 39,897 50,592 624 49,968 29,680  2015 Avalon Roseland Roseland, NJ 11,265 34,504  11,265 34,504 45,769 753 45,016 33,143  2015 Avalon West Chelsea New York, NY  119,361   119,361 119,361 10,341 109,020 117,562  2015 Avalon Mosaic Fairfax, VA 33,488 75,723  33,488 75,723 109,211 4,911 104,300 106,456  2014 Avalon Alderwood I Lynnwood, WA 12,294 55,423  12,294 55,423 67,717 2,470 65,247 65,614  2015 Avalon Dublin Station Dublin, CA 7,772 70,902  7,772 70,902 78,674 4,372 74,302 77,015  2014 Avalon Hayes Valley San Francisco, CA 12,594 79,800  12,594 79,800 92,394 1,992 90,402 79,572  2015 Avalon Vista Vista, CA 12,686 42,661  12,686 42,661 55,347 888 54,459 36,630  2015 Avalon Baker Ranch Lake Forest, CA 31,687 97,419  31,687 97,419 129,106 2,181 126,925 110,748  2015 AVA Little Tokyo Los Angeles, CA 14,734 93,470 222 14,734 93,692 108,426 3,630 104,796 105,404  2015 TOTAL LEASE-UP $ 240,228 $ 1,179,559 $ 61,180 $ 240,228 $ 1,240,739 $ 1,480,967 $ 48,506 $ 1,432,461 $ 1,281,832 $  F-47 Table of Contents AVALONBAY COMMUNITIES,INC.
REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION (Continued) December 31, 2015 (Dollars in thousands) 2015 2014 2015 Initial Cost Total Cost Community City and state Land and improvements Building / Construction in Progress& Improvements Costs Subsequent to Acquisition / Construction Land and improvements Building / Construction in Progress& Improvements Total Accumulated Depreciation Total Cost, Net of Accumulated Depreciation Total Cost, Net of Accumulated Depreciation Encumbrances Year of Completion/ Acquisition REDEVELOPMENT Avalon Silicon Valley Sunnyvale, CA $ 20,713 $ 99,573 $ 11,163 $ 20,713 $ 110,736 $ 131,449 $ 62,735 $ 68,714 $ 65,997 $  1998 Avalon Santa Monica on Main Santa Monica, CA 32,000 60,770 11,000 32,000 71,770 103,770 8,732 95,038 89,409  2007/2013 Avalon La Jolla Colony San Diego, CA 16,760 27,694 3,687 16,760 31,381 48,141 4,852 43,289 42,888 27,176 1987/2013 Avalon Walnut Ridge I Walnut Creek, CA 9,860 19,850 2,549 9,860 22,399 32,259 2,908 29,351 28,429 20,754 2000/2013 Avalon Pasadena Pasadena, CA 10,240 31,558 2,719 10,240 34,277 44,517 4,627 39,890 40,103 28,079 2004/2013 AVA Back Bay Boston, MA 9,034 36,540 39,506 9,034 76,046 85,080 28,618 56,462 55,733  1968/1998 Avalon Bear Hill Waltham, MA 27,350 96,387 18,621 27,350 115,008 142,358 14,991 127,367 118,155  1999/2013 Avalon Towers Long Beach, NY 3,118 11,973 20,127 3,118 32,100 35,218 12,753 22,465 13,914  1990/1995 Avalon at Arlington Square Arlington, VA 22,041 90,296 18,070 22,041 108,366 130,407 46,173 84,234 72,275  2001 TOTAL REDEVLOPMENT $ 151,116 $ 474,641 $ 127,442 $ 151,116 $ 602,083 $ 753,199 $ 186,389 $ 566,810 $ 526,903 $ 76,009 TOTAL CURRENT COMMUNITIES $ 3,537,870 $ 12,067,407 $ 1,349,015 $ 3,537,870 $ 13,416,422 $ 16,954,292 $ 3,270,732 $ 13,683,560 $ 13,812,553 $ 2,606,291 DEVELOPMENT Avalon Glendora Glendora, CA $ 10,530 $ 37,448 $ 34,090 $ 10,530 $ 71,538 $ 82,068 $ 338 $ 81,730 $ 52,146 $  N/A Avalon Irvine III Irvine, CA  774 51,534  52,308 52,308  52,308 26,303  N/A Avalon Dublin Station II Dublin, CA 1,848 18,949 59,948 1,848 78,897 80,745 54 80,691 43,422  N/A Avalon West Hollywood West Hollywood, CA   93,676  93,676 93,676  93,676 58,128  N/A Avalon Chino Hills Chino Hills, CA  72 24,567  24,639 24,639  24,639 N/A  N/A Avalon Dogpatch San Francisco, CA  182 62,124  62,306 62,306  62,306 N/A  N/A Avalon Huntington Beach Huntington Beach, CA  981 87,648  88,629 88,629  88,629 40,739  N/A AVA NoMa Washington, DC  211 47,583  47,794 47,794  47,794 N/A  N/A Avalon North Station Boston, MA  117 142,794  142,911 142,911  142,911 46,268  N/A Avalon Quincy Quincy, MA  40 34,458  34,498 34,498  34,498 N/A  N/A AVA Wheaton Wheaton, MD  144 18,151  18,295 18,295  18,295 14,347  N/A Avalon Hunt Valley Hunt Valley, MD  310 28,920  29,230 29,230  29,230 N/A  N/A Avalon Laurel Laurel, MD  220 30,788  31,008 31,008  31,008 N/A  N/A Avalon Princeton Princeton, NJ  202 49,869  50,071 50,071  50,071 35,456  N/A Avalon Union Union, NJ 468 2,126 36,867 468 38,993 39,461 5 39,456 12,717  N/A Avalon Maplewood Maplewood, NJ  79 19,101  19,180 19,180  19,180 N/A  N/A Avalon Willoughby Square/AVA DoBro Brooklyn, NY 9,145 25,827 373,975 9,145 399,802 408,947 135 408,812 266,318  N/A F-48 Table of Contents AVALONBAY COMMUNITIES,INC.
REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION (Continued) December 31, 2015 (Dollars in thousands) 2015 2014 2015 Initial Cost Total Cost Community City and state Land and improvements Building / Construction in Progress& Improvements Costs Subsequent to Acquisition / Construction Land and improvements Building / Construction in Progress& Improvements Total Accumulated Depreciation Total Cost, Net of Accumulated Depreciation Total Cost, Net of Accumulated Depreciation Encumbrances Year of Completion/ Acquisition Avalon Green III Elmsford, NY 2,786 9,674 8,689 2,786 18,363 21,149 46 21,103 1,447  N/A Avalon Great Neck Great Neck, NY  69 26,168  26,237 26,237  26,237 N/A  N/A Avalon Sheepshead Bay Brooklyn, NY  104 20,290  20,394 20,394  20,394 N/A  N/A Avalon Rockville Centre II Rockville Centre, NY   11,302  11,302 11,302  11,302 N/A  N/A Avalon Falls Church Falls Church, VA 35,018 61,217 8,243 35,018 69,460 104,478 1,040 103,438 69,631  N/A AVA Capitol Hill Seattle, WA 4,139 13,031 61,910 4,139 74,941 79,080 72 79,008 39,870  N/A Avalon Esterra Park Redmond, WA  179 84,249  84,428 84,428  84,428 33,523  N/A Avalon Alderwood II Redmond, WA   14,264  14,264 14,264  14,264 N/A  N/A Avalon Newcastle I Newcastle, WA   27,140  27,140 27,140  27,140 N/A  N/A TOTAL DEVELOPMENT $ 63,934 $ 171,956 $ 1,458,348 $ 63,934 $ 1,630,304 $ 1,694,238 $ 1,690 $ 1,692,548 $ 740,315 $  Land Held for Development $ 484,377 $  $  $ 484,377 $  $ 484,377 $  $ 484,377 $ 180,516 $  Corporate Overhead 39,371 29,535 66,286 39,371 95,821 135,192 53,368 81,824 41,940 3,875,000 2015 Disposed Communities         160,416  TOTAL $ 4,125,552 $ 12,268,898 $ 2,873,649 $ 4,125,552 $ 15,142,547 $ 19,268,099 $ 3,325,790 $ 15,942,309 $ 14,935,740 $ 6,481,291 _________________________________ (1) This community was under redevelopment for some or all of 2015, with the redevelopment effort primarily focused on the exterior and/or common area, with no expected material impact on community operations. This community is therefore included in the Established Community portfolio and not classified as a Redevelopment Community.
(2) The 2015 financial reporting cost includes the basis for the land parcel which held the apartment homes which were destroyed, and is net of the recognized impairment to write-off the net book value of the fixed assets destroyed by the fire.
F-49 Table of Contents AVALONBAY COMMUNITIES,INC.
REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION (Continued) December 31, 2015 (Dollars in thousands) Amounts include real estate assets held for sale.
Depreciation of AvalonBay Communities,Inc. building, improvements, upgrades and furniture, fixtures and equipment (FF&E) is calculated over the following useful lives, on a straight line basis: Building 30 years Improvements, upgrades and FF&Enot to exceed 7 years The aggregate cost of total real estate for federal income tax purposes was approximately $18,958,119 at December31, 2015 .