http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1122304/000112230413000037/form10-k.htm
12600000000.0
AET
2013-02-19
10-K
AET_2013-02-19_10-K.txt

10-K 1 form10-k.htm FORM 10-K 2012 FORM 10-K UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D.C. 20549 FORM 10-K (Mark One)  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 For the fiscal year ended December31, 2012 or  TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 For the transition period from _________ to_________ Commission file number 1-16095 Aetna Inc.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) Pennsylvania (State or other jurisdiction of incorporation or organization) 23-2229683 (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.) 151 Farmington Avenue, Hartford, CT (Address of principal executive offices) 06156 (Zip Code) Registrant's telephone number, including area code (860) 273-0123 Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: Title of each class Common Shares, $.01 par value Name of each exchange on which registered New York Stock Exchange Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.
R Yes  No Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act.
Yes  No Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.
R Yes  No Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files).
R Yes  No Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K (229.405 of this chapter) is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company.  See the definitions of large accelerated filer, accelerated filer and smaller reporting company in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act: Large accelerated filer  Accelerated filer  Non-accelerated filer  Smaller reporting company  (Do not check if smaller reporting company) Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act)  Yes  No The aggregate market value of the outstanding common equity of the registrant held by non-affiliates as of the last business day of the registrant's most recently completed second fiscal quarter (June 30, 2012) was $12.6 billion.
There were 328.0 million shares of the registrant's voting common stock with a par value of $.01 per share outstanding at January 31, 2013.
DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE The 2012 Annual Report, Financial Report to Shareholders (the Annual Report) is incorporated by reference in Parts I, II and IV to the extent described therein.  The definitive proxy statement related to Aetna Inc.'s 2013 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, to be filed on or about April 5, 2013 (the Proxy Statement), is incorporated by reference in Parts III and IV to the extent described therein.
Aetna Inc.
Annual Report on Form 10-K For the Year Ended December31, 2012 Unless the context otherwise requires, references to the terms we, our or us used throughout this Annual Report on Form 10-K refer to Aetna Inc. (a Pennsylvania corporation) (Aetna) and its subsidiaries (collectively, the Company).
Table of Contents Page Part I Item 1.
Business 1 Item 1A.
Risk Factors 14 Item 1B.
Unresolved Staff Comments 14 Item 2.
Properties 14 Item 3.
Legal Proceedings 14 Item 4.
Mine Safety Disclosures 14 Executive Officers of the Registrant 15 Part II Item 5.
Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 16 Item 6.
Selected Financial Data 17 Item 7.
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 17 Item 7A.
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 17 Item 8.
Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 17 Item 9.
Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 17 Item 9A.
Controls and Procedures 17 Item 9B.
Other Information 18 Part III Item 10.
Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 18 Item 11.
Executive Compensation 18 Item 12.
Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 18 Item 13.
Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 18 Item 14.
Principal Accounting Fees and Services 18 Part IV Item 15.
Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 18 Signatures 31 Index to Exhibits 32 Part I Item 1.  Business We are one of the nation's leading diversified health care benefits companies , serving approximately 37.3 million people with information and resources to help them in consultation with their health care professionals make better informed decisions about their health care.   We offer a broad range of traditional, voluntary and consumer-directed health insurance products and related services, including medical, pharmacy, dental, behavioral health, group life and disability plans, medical management capabilities, Medicaid health care management services and health information technology services.  Our customers include employer groups, individuals, college students, part-time and hourly workers, health plans, health care providers, governmental units, government-sponsored plans, labor groups and expatriates.
Our mission is to make quality health care more affordable and more accessible, and our strategy is to be the global leader in empowering people to live healthier lives.  Our operational, financial and strategically important accomplishments during 2012 included:  Signing a definitive agreement to acquire Coventry Health Care, Inc. (Coventry), a strategic acquisition that we believe will enhance all elements of our growth strategy.  We project that the proposed Coventry acquisition will:  Add medical membership which will enhance our diversified portfolio.
Increase our presence in government programs, which is an important element of our growth strategy.
Improve our positioning and reach in health insurance exchange-based businesses.
In 2012, we made significant progress towards closing the proposed Coventry acquisition, and we currently expect to complete the transaction in mid-2013.
Making strong progress in growing our Accountable Care Solutions (ACS) business. We continue to execute on our strategy of transforming the network model and in turn making health care more accessible and affordable.  Using our combination of population health management technologies and medical management capabilities, our goal is to continue to be a leader in enabling health care providers to change their business models from episodic acute care to patient population management, which allows them to convert from volume-based reimbursement to value-based reimbursement.  In 2012, we signed 9 new accountable care organization (ACO) collaborative agreements.  At January 31, 2013, we had a total of 17 ACO agreements.
Effectively deploying excess capital to deliver value for shareholders, as we repurchased 32.3 million shares, raised our quarterly shareholder dividend by 14 percent, and repurchased $200 million of our outstanding long-term debt.
Signing a Medicare Advantage contract with Teacher Retirement System of Texas (TRS), which became effective January 1, 2013.  We project that this conversion will produce over $1 billion of additional revenue in 2013.
We believe that these accomplishments strategically position us for future success with the goal of participating in the shaping of more effective health care systems.
The health care and related benefits industry continues to experience significant change .  The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 (collectively, Health Care Reform) has changed and will continue to make broad-based changes to the U.S. health care system which could significantly affect the U.S. economy and we expect will continue to significantly impact our business operations and financial results, including our pricing and medical benefit ratios.Health Care Reform presents us with new business opportunities, but also with new financial and regulatory challenges. Key components of the legislation will continue to be phased in over the next several years, with the most significant changes during that time due to occur in 2014, including health insurance exchanges (also known as health insurance marketplaces) (Insurance Exchanges), Medicare minimum medical loss ratios (MLRs), the individual coverage mandate, guaranteed issue, rating limits in the individual and small group markets, and new industry-wide fees, assessments and taxes.It is reasonably possible that Health Care Reform, in the aggregate, could have a material adverse effect Page 1 on our business operations and financial results.  For additional information on federal and state health care reform, refer to Overview and Regulatory Environment and for a discussion of certain factors that may cause our actual results to differ from currently anticipated results in connection with health care reform, see Forward-Looking Information/Risk Factors, each sections of the Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (the MD&A), beginning on pages 2 , 28 and 47 of the Annual Report, respectively, which are incorporated herein by reference.
In addition, employers, consumers and the federal and state governments continue to increase their focus on health care costs and providing health insurance to the uninsured; and they continue to drive changes in the structure of health insurance and related benefits products and services.  Product features continue to evolve that are directed at containing rising health care costs, addressing affordability problems, enhancing access to quality health care services and giving members greater control and responsibility in directing their benefit dollars.  For employer-based health coverage, employers are continuing to require covered employee members to assume a greater portion of the cost of their health care and/or coverage.  These economic and political factors and greater consumer awareness are leading to increased popularity of products that offer flexibility in design features such as deductibles and co-payments, health savings accounts, consumer access to a broader network of health care providers, quality-based physician networks and high value narrow network solutions.  The industry is also subject to other forces including adverse and uncertain economic conditions in the U.S. and abroad, federal and state legislative and regulatory reforms, advances in pharmaceutical and medical technology and industry consolidation.  All of these factors can affect the competitiveness of product and service offerings, the range of industry competitors and the bases of competition.  We believe that these factors will exist for some time and will drive a continuing evolution in the health care and related benefits industry.
We continue to invest in our company through the development of new products, strategic acquisitions and new business alliances.
We place significant emphasis on developing and maintaining our product and service offerings to serve existing and new customer markets and have done so through organic growth, acquisitions, such as the proposed acquisition of Coventry, and new business alliances.
Over the last five years, this focus has led to the introduction of new products, such as CarePass  , which provides consumers with important tools which help to make healthcare more convenient, connect them to providers, and help them navigate the evolving health care system; Aetna One  , our suite of integrated products such as disease management and prevention, wellness and health promotion, and health, disability and absence assessments, designed to help improve member health and productivity and lower medical and other benefit cost trend over time; our Personal Health Record, which provides members with online access to personal information to help them make better informed decisions about their health care; Aetna Health Connections SM , our integrated disease management program and Aetna Vision Preferred SM , which provides members with access to one of the largest vision networks in the U.S.  We also continue to develop and enhance our existing products, such as our Aexcel SM physician networks, which are comprised of specialist providers who have demonstrated effectiveness in the delivery of care based on measures of clinical performance and efficiency.  We are also continuing to expand our initiative to improve the transparency of our products and pricing by utilizing our Aetna Navigator  online tool to give our members access to physician-specific cost, clinical quality and efficiency information.
Proposed Acquisition of Coventry On August 19, 2012, we entered into a definitive agreement (as amended, and as may be further amended, the Merger Agreement) to acquire Coventry in a transaction valued at approximately $7.3 billion, based on the closing price of Aetna common shares on August 17, 2012, including the assumption of Coventry debt. Coventry is a diversified managed health care company that offers a full portfolio of risk and fee-based products, including Medicare Advantage and Medicare Part D programs, Medicaid managed care plans, group and individual health insurance, coverage for specialty services such as workers' compensation, and network rental services.  Under the terms of the Merger Agreement, Coventry stockholders will receive $27.30 in cash and 0.3885 Aetna common shares for each Coventry share.  In November 2012, we issued $2.0 billion of long-term debt to fund a portion of the cash purchase price, and Coventry's stockholders approved the transaction. We expect to finance the remainder Page 2 of the cash portion of the purchase price of the proposed acquisition of Coventry through a combination of cash on hand and by issuing approximately $500 million of commercial paper.
We continue to work with the U.S. Department of Justice to obtain clearance for the proposed acquisition, and as of January 31, 2013, we had obtained 18 out of 21 requisite state regulatory approvals to close the transaction.  The proposed acquisition is currently projected to close in mid-2013 and remains subject to customary closing conditions, including expiration of the federal Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976 (HSR Act) waiting period and approvals of state departments of insurance and other regulators, and therefore has not been reflected in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including any projections for future periods, unless expressly stated otherwise.
Other Transactions In connection with the proposed Coventry acquisition, in January 2013, we entered into a definitive agreement to sell our Missouri Medicaid business to WellCare Health Plans, Inc.
During 2011, we completed four acquisitions that added capabilities and membership, and further advanced our strategies. These acquisitions are further described below in the discussion of our Health Care products and services.
Our operations are conducted in three business segments:  Health Care, Group Insurance and Large Case Pensions .  We derive our revenues primarily from insurance premiums, administrative service fees, net investment income and other revenue.  Refer to the MD&A and Note 19 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements beginning on pages 2 and 128 , respectively, of the Annual Report, which are incorporated herein by reference, regarding revenue, profit and total asset information for each of our business segments and revenue and asset information about geographic areas.  The following is a description of each of our business segments.
Health Care Products and Services Health Care products consist of medical, pharmacy benefit management services, dental, behavioral health and vision plans offered on both an insured basis and an employer-funded, or administrative, basis and emerging businesses products and services, such as ACS, that complement and enhance our medical products.  Medical products include point of service (POS), preferred provider organization (PPO), health maintenance organization (HMO) and indemnity benefit (Indemnity) plans.  Medical products also include health savings accounts (HSAs) and Aetna HealthFund  , consumer-directed health plans that combine traditional POS or PPO and/or dental coverage, subject to a deductible, with an accumulating benefit account.  We also offer Medicare and Medicaid products and services, as well as other medical products, such as medical management and data analytics services, medical stop loss insurance and products that provide access to our provider networks in select markets.  We refer to insurance products (where we assume all or a majority of the risk for medical and dental care costs) as Insured and administrative services contract products (where the plan sponsor assumes all or a majority of the risk for medical and dental care costs) as ASC.
Our principal products and services are targeted specifically to large multi-site national, mid-sized and small employers.  We also serve individual insureds, expatriates and, in certain markets, Medicare and Medicaid beneficiaries and health care providers (providers).  Medicare and Medicaid products and services are categorized separately from the Health Care products and services we sell to employers, other groups, individuals and providers, which we refer to as Commercial.
The primary Commercial products we offer are POS, PPO, HMO, HSA and Indemnity plans.  We also offer other Commercial products and services including: Emerging businesses Our emerging businesses include a variety of health information technology (HIT) products and services, including our ACS, Active Health and Medicity Inc. (Medicity) businesses.
Page 3 Accountable Care Solutions Our provider solutions focus on getting timely information to the provider to improve care for patients and build healthier communities. These solutions also focus on growing membership in our medical products through provider collaborations that are designed to lower costs.  Our ACS business offers a suite of solutions designed to facilitate delivery system reform and help reduce the cost of care by enabling population health management for providers. Our ACS solutions facilitate providers changing their business model from episodic acute care to patient population management which allows them to convert from volume-based reimbursement to value-based reimbursement.  Our ACS business deploys Aetna's Medicity, Active Health and other capabilities to collaborate with providers in new ways to improve the quality and efficiency of care for all patients, whether they are Aetna members or members of other payors. Our ACS business creates mutually beneficial relationships with providers through a variety of methods, including alignment of financial incentives based on cost and quality, implementation of innovative HIT and deploying leading care management programs.  In addition, at January 31, 2013, we had signed 17 ACO agreements and had collaborations under contract with Carilion Clinic, Heartland Health, Banner Health Network, Inova Health System, Memorial Hermann, among others.
ActiveHealth Management Through the use of our patented CareEngine  system, our ActiveHealth Management business provides evidence-based medical management and data analytics products and services to a broad range of customers, including health plans, employers and others.  ActiveHealth Management also is a key component of our ACS solution.
Medicity Medicity is a health information exchange company and a key component of our ACS solutions. Medicity offers a set of convenient, easy-to-access technology solutions for physicians, hospitals and other health care providers.  These capabilities allow us to further the adoption of electronic health records and contribute to initiatives that foster administrative simplicity in health care, a key issue for consumers, patients and providers. Medicity offers us clinical data integration and secure data exchange capabilities.  We acquired Medicity in 2011.
Personal Health Record Our Personal Health Record provides members with online access to personal information, including individual personalized messages and alerts, detailed health history based on available claims data and voluntarily submitted information, and integrated information and resources to help members make informed decisions about their health care.
Behavioral Health Our behavioral health and employee assistance products provide members who experience stress, depression and other types of mental health related illness with integrated behavioral health benefit administration, access to a network of providers and innovative wellness programs.  We can provide customized behavioral health solutions to members in all 50 states.
Pharmacy We offer pharmacy benefit management services and specialty and mail order pharmacy services to our members.  Our pharmacy fulfillment services are delivered by Aetna Specialty Pharmacy (ASP) and Aetna Rx Home Delivery  .  ASP compounds and dispenses specialty medications and offers certain support services associated with specialty medications.  Specialty medications are generally injectable or infused medications that may not be readily available at local pharmacies.  Aetna Rx Home Delivery  provides mail order prescription drug services.  In 2011, CVS Caremark began to perform the administration of selected functions for our retail pharmacy network contracting and claims administration; mail order and specialty pharmacy order fulfillment and inventory purchasing and management; and certain administrative services for us.
Page 4 Dental We offer managed dental plans on an Insured and ASC basis.  We are one of the nation's largest providers of dental coverage, based on membership at December31, 2012 .
Provider Network Access (Cofinity) Through our Cofinity products, we provide access to regional health care provider networks to other insurance companies, third-party administrators, health plans and employers. Cofinity products predominantly are marketed in Michigan, Colorado and other states.
Stop Loss We offer medical stop loss insurance coverage for certain employers who elect to self insure their health benefits.  Under this product, we assume the costs associated with large individual claims and/or aggregate loss experience within an employer's plan above a pre-set annual threshold.
Aetna Vision SM Preferred In January 2011, we began to offer vision benefits that provide members with access to one of the largest vision networks in the U.S.  The Aetna Vision Preferred program can be customized with a wide range of benefit levels and co-payments.  We are collaborating with EyeMed Vision Care LLC, a national vision benefits company, to offer this product to our customers.
Other Commercial Products and Services We offer a variety of other health care coverage products either as supplements to health products or as stand-alone products, such as indemnity programs, which may be offered on an Insured or an ASC basis.  We also offer, directly or in cooperation with third parties, our Aetna Health Connections SM disease management program which addresses over 35 chronic conditions, including heart failure, asthma and cancer.
In addition to Medicity, which is described on page 4, the acquisitions we completed in 2011 enhance the products and services we offer in the following manner: Prodigy, and its flexible, highly customizable offerings enhanced our ASC business.  Prodigy provides us with the capability to address affordability and quality for middle-sized and small businesses and customers who are primarily price-focused by offering third-party administrator (TPA) services for self-funded health care plans.  Prodigy's established TPA services business extended our existing capabilities with an alternative product offering attractive to certain self-funded customers seeking a low fixed cost solution with additional service flexibility. It also complements our ACS initiatives and enables a number of positive synergies, including using our provider networks and pharmacy benefit management services to enhance our ability to grow membership and develop customized networks in accountable care models.
Genworth's Medicare Supplement business and related blocks of in-force business substantially enhanced our presence, competitiveness, distribution andadministrative capabilities as a provider of Medicare Supplement insurance. The acquisition significantly expanded our Medicare Supplement business at a time when the Medicare population is anticipated to increase as Baby Boomers reach age 65.
Payflex strengthened our existing HSA administration offerings in our Commercial products by providing us with a next-generation platform for administering consumer directed fund accounts.  This acquisition enhanced our ability to provide members with flexible, customized, easy-to-use tools and solutions to better manage their health care expenses, which we believe are important given the increased focus on consumerism and the increasing amount of health care expenses paid by members.
Page 5 We also offer comprehensive health care benefits and health management solutions worldwide through several different arrangements and offerings that include medical, dental, vision, life, disability and emergency assistance to expatriates, foreign nationals and other constituents.  Our health management business collaborates with health care systems, government entities and plan sponsors around the world to design and build health management solutions to improve health, quality and cost outcomes.
In addition to Commercial health products, in select markets we also offer Medicare Advantage plans, Medicare Supplement plans and prescription drug coverage for Medicare beneficiaries and participate in Medicaid and subsidized State Children's Health Insurance Programs (SCHIP).  SCHIP are state-subsidized insurance programs that provide benefits for families with uninsured children.  Our Medicare and Medicaid products include: Medicare Through annual contracts with the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS), we offer HMO and PPO products for eligible individuals in certain geographic areas through the Medicare Advantage program.  Members typically receive enhanced benefits over standard Medicare fee-for-service coverage, including reduced cost-sharing for preventive care, vision and other services.  Weofferednetwork-based HMO and/or PPO plansin 393counties in 34 states and Washington, D.C. in 2012; and we are expanding to 441counties in 34 states and Washington, D.C. in 2013. As a result of changes inrequirements that became effective in 2011, we ceased offeringour remaining Medicare private fee-for-service (PFFS) products in 2011.
We are a national provider of the Medicare Part D Prescription Drug Program (PDP) in all 50 statesand Washington, D.C. to both individuals and employer groups.  All Medicare eligible individuals are eligible to participate in this voluntary prescription drug plan.  Members typically receive coverage for certain prescription drugs, usually subject to a deductible, co-insurance and/or co-payment.
For certain qualifying employer groups, weoffer our Medicare PPO products nationally.  When combined with our PDP product,these national PPO plansform an integrated national fully-insured Medicare product for employers that provides medical and pharmacy benefits.
Medicare Supplement For certain Medicare eligible members, we offersupplementalcoverage for certain health care costs not covered byMedicare. The products included in our Medicare Supplement portfolio help to coversome of thegaps in Medicare, and include coverage for Medicaredeductibles and coinsuranceamounts.
We offered awide selection of Medicare Supplement products in 44 states in 2012, through our existing products, including our products from our 2011 acquisition of Genworth's Medicare Supplement business and related blocks of in-force business.
Medicaid and SCHIP We offer health care management services to individuals eligible for Medicaid and SCHIP under multi-year contracts which are subject to annual appropriations.  We offered these services on an Insured or ASC basis in 11 states and targeted medical management services in one state in 2012.
Provider Networks We contract with physicians, hospitals and other health care providers for services to our customers.  The health care providers who participate in our networks are independent contractors and are neither our employees nor our agents, except for providers who work in our mail-order and specialty pharmacy facilities.
We use a variety of techniques designed to help encourage appropriate utilization of medical services and maintain affordability of quality coverage.  In addition to contracts with health care providers for negotiated rates of reimbursement, these techniques include the development and implementation of guidelines for the appropriate utilization of medical services and the provision of data to providers to enable them to improve health care quality.
Page 6 At December31, 2012 , we had an extensive nationwide provider network with over 970,700 participating health care providers, including over 583,000 primary care and specialist physicians and over 5,400 hospitals.
Accountable Care Solutions We collaborate with hospitals and other providers through our ACS business.  ACS arrangements focus on high value narrow network solutions to provide high-quality, low-cost options in local geographies. We are able to help enhance our relationships with hospitals and other providers through a variety of methods, including a re-alignment of financial incentives for providing high quality care, total cost management initiatives and symmetrical risk sharing.
Primary Care Physicians We compensate primary care physicians (PCPs) participating in our networks on both a fee-for-service and capitated basis, with capitation generally limited to HMO products in certain geographic areas and representing approximately five percent of health care costs in each of the last three years.  In a fee-for-service arrangement, physicians are paid for health care services provided to the member based upon a set fee for the services provided.  Under a capitation arrangement, physicians receive a monthly fixed fee for each member, regardless of the volume of health care services provided to the member.  In some cases, PCPs who are paid on a fee-for-service or capitated basis also receive additional incentive fees if certain performance metrics are attained.
Specialist Physicians Specialist physicians participating in our networks are generally reimbursed at contracted rates per visit or per procedure.
Hospitals We typically enter into contracts with hospitals that provide for per-day and/or per-case rates, often with fixed rates for ambulatory, surgery and emergency room services.  We also have hospital contracts that provide for reimbursement based on a percentage of the charges billed by the hospital.
Our medical plans generally require notification of elective hospital admissions, and we monitor the length of hospital stays.  Physicians who participate in our networks generally admit their patients in network-based products to participating hospitals using referral procedures that direct the hospital to contact our patient management unit in order to confirm the patient's membership status and facilitate the patient management process.  This unit also assists members and providers with related activities, including, if necessary, the subsequent transition to the home environment and home care.  Case management assistance for complex cases is provided by a special unit.
Other Providers Laboratory, imaging, urgent care and other freestanding health facility providers are generally paid under fee-for-service arrangements, except for certain laboratory services.
Quality Assessment We seek Health Plan accreditation for our HMO plans from the National Committee for Quality Assurance (the NCQA), a national organization established to review the quality and medical management systems of health care plans.  Health care plans seeking accreditation must pass a rigorous, comprehensive review and must annually report on their performance.
Aetna Life Insurance Company (ALIC), a wholly-owned subsidiary of Aetna, has received nationwide NCQA PPO Health Plan accreditation, through December 20, 2013.  At December 31, 2012, all of our Commercial HMO and PPO members who were eligible to participated in HMOs or PPOs that received accreditation by the NCQA.
Page 7 We also seek accreditation and certification for other products from NCQA and URAC (formally known as American Accreditation HealthCare Commission, Inc.), another national organization founded to establish standards for the health care industry.  Purchasers and consumers look to URAC's and NCQA's accreditation and certification as an indication that a health care organization has the necessary structures and processes to promote high-quality care and preserve patient rights.  In addition, regulators in over 80% of the states recognize NCQA's accreditation and certification standards.
Our provider selection and credentialing/recredentialing policies and procedures are consistent with NCQA and URAC, as well as state and federal, requirements.  In addition, we are certified under the NCQA Credentials Verification Organization (CVO) certification program for all certification options through January 29, 2015.  Our URAC CVO accreditation is valid through October 1, 2015.
Our quality assessment programs for contracted providers who participate in our networks begin with the initial review of health care practitioners.  Practitioners' licenses and education are verified, and their work history is collected by us or in some cases by the practitioner's affiliated group or organization.  We generally require participating hospitals to be certified by CMS or accredited by the Joint Commission, the American Osteopathic Association, or Det Norske Veritas Healthcare.
We also offer quality and outcome measurement programs, quality improvement programs, and health care data analysis systems to providers and purchasers of health care services.
Principal Markets and Sales Our medical membership is dispersed throughout the U.S., and we serve a limited but growing number of members in certain countries outside the U.S.  Refer to Note 19 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, beginning on page 128 of the Annual Report, which is incorporated herein by reference, for additional information on our foreign customers.  We offer a broad range of traditional, voluntary and consumer-directed health insurance products and related services, many of which are available nationwide.  Depending on the product, we market to a range of customers including employer groups, individuals, college students, part-time and hourly workers, health plans, governmental units, government-sponsored plans, labor groups and expatriates.
The following table presents total medical membership by U.S. and other geographic region and funding arrangement at December31, 2012 , 2011 and 2010 : 2012 2011 2010 (Thousands) Insured ASC Total Insured ASC Total Insured ASC Total Northeast 1,787 2,662 4,449 1,847 2,628 4,475 1,839 2,709 4,548 Southeast 1,150 2,803 3,953 1,119 2,854 3,973 1,125 2,902 4,027 Mid-America 1,364 4,083 5,447 1,322 4,230 5,552 1,306 4,522 5,828 West 1,142 2,154 3,296 1,190 2,263 3,453 1,286 2,356 3,642 Other 315 782 1,097 277 729 1,006 285 138 423 Total medical membership 5,758 12,484 18,242 5,755 12,704 18,459 5,841 12,627 18,468 Additional information on Health Care's membership is included in the Membership section of the MD&A, on page 11 of the Annual Report, which is incorporated herein by reference.
We market both Insured and ASC products and services primarily to employers that sponsor our products (also called plan sponsors) for the benefit of their employees and their employees' dependents.  Frequently, larger employers offer employees a choice among coverage options, from which the employee makes his or her selection during a designated annual open enrollment period.  Typically, employers pay all of the monthly premiums to us and, through payroll deductions, obtain reimbursement from employees for a percentage of the premiums that is determined by each employer.  Some Health Care products are sold directly to employees of employer groups on a fully employee-funded basis.  In some cases, we bill the covered individual directly.  We also sell Insured plans directly to individual consumers in a number of states.
Page 8 We offer Insured Medicare coverage on an individual basis as well as through employer groups to their retirees.  Medicaid and SCHIP members are enrolled on an individual basis.
Health Care products are sold through our sales personnel, as well as through independent brokers, agents and consultants who assist in the production and servicing of business.  For large plan sponsors, independent consultants and brokers are frequently involved in employer health plan selection decisions and sales.  In some instances, we may pay commissions, fees and other amounts to brokers, agents, consultants and sales representatives who place business with us.  In certain cases, our customer pays the broker for services rendered and we may facilitate that arrangement by collecting the funds from the customer and transmitting them to the broker.  We support our marketing and sales efforts with an advertising program that may include television, radio, billboards, print media and social media, supplemented by market research and direct marketing efforts.
Pricing For Commercial Insured plans, employer group contracts containing the pricing and other terms of the relationship are generally established in advance of the policy period and typically have a duration of one year.  Fees under our ASC plans are generally fixed for a period of one year.
We use prospective rating methodologies in determining the premium rates charged to the majority of employer groups, and we also use retrospective rating methodologies for a limited number of groups.  Premium rates for customers with more than approximately 125 employees generally take into consideration the individual plan sponsor's historical and anticipated claim experience where permitted by law.  Some states may prohibit the use of one or more of these rating methods for some customers, such as small employer groups, or all customers.
Under prospective rating, a fixed premium rate is determined at the beginning of the policy period.  We typically cannot recover unanticipated increases in health care costs in the current policy period; however, we may consider prior experience for a product in the aggregate or for a specific customer, among other factors, in determining premium rates for future policy periods.  Where required by state laws, premium rates are filed and approved by state regulators prior to contract inception.  Our future results could be adversely affected if the premium rates we request are not approved or are adjusted downward or their approval is delayed by state or federal regulators.
Under retrospective rating, we determine a premium rate at the beginning of the policy period.  After the policy period has ended, the actual claim and cost experience is reviewed.  If the actual claim costs and other expenses are less than expected, we may issue a refund to the plan sponsor based on this favorable experience.  If the experience is unfavorable, in certain instances we may recover the resulting deficit through contractual provisions or consider the deficit in setting future premium levels.  However, we may not recover the deficit if a plan sponsor elects to terminate coverage.  Retrospective rating may be used for Commercial Insured plans that cover more than approximately 300 lives.
We have Medicare Advantage and PDP contracts with CMS to provide HMO, PPO and prescription drug coverage to Medicare beneficiaries in certain geographic areas. Under these annual contracts, CMS pays us a fixed capitation payment and/or a portion of the premium, both of which are based on membership and adjusted for demographic and health risk factors.  CMS also considers inflation, changes in utilization patterns and average per capita fee-for-service Medicare costs in the calculation of the fixed capitation payment or premium.  Our PDP contracts also provide a risk-sharing arrangement with CMS to limit our exposure to unfavorable expenses or benefit from favorable expenses.  Amounts payable to us under the Medicare arrangements are subject to annual revision by CMS, and we elect to participate in each Medicare service area or region on an annual basis.  Premiums paid to us for Medicare products are subject to federal government reviews and audits, which can result, and have resulted, in retroactive and prospective premium adjustments.  In addition to payments received from CMS, most of our Medicare Advantage products and all of our PDP products require a supplemental premium to be paid by the member or sponsoring employer.  In some cases these supplemental premiums are adjusted based on the member's income and asset levels.  Compared to Commercial products, Medicare contracts generate higher per member per month revenues and health care costs.
Page 9 CMS uses a 5-star rating system to monitor plans and ensure that they meet CMS's quality standards. CMS uses this rating system to provide Medicare beneficiaries with a tool that they can use to compare the overall quality of care and level of customer service of companies that provide Medicare health care and drug plans. The rating system considers a variety of measures, including quality of preventative services, chronic illness management and overall customer satisfaction.
Beginning in 2012, Health Care Reform ties a portion of each Medicare Advantage plan's reimbursement to the plan's star rating.  Beginning in 2012, those plans that received a rating of 3 or more stars were eligible for quality-based bonus payments.  Beginning in 2015, plans must have a star rating of four or higher to qualify for bonus payments.  Our average star rating increased from 3.48 in 2012 to 3.53 in 2013, and for 2013 99% of our Medicare Advantage members are in plans rated at least 3.5 stars. CMS will release updated stars ratings in October 2013 that will determine the portion of our Medicare Advantage membership that will reside in plans with ratings of four stars or higher and qualify for bonus payments in 2015.  Our Medicare Advantage plans' operating results from 2012 forward are likely to continue to be significantly determined by their star ratings.
Rates for our Medicare Supplement products are regulated at the state level and vary by state.
Under our Insured Medicaid contracts, state government agencies pay us fixed monthly rates per member that vary by state, line of business and demographics; and we arrange, pay for and manage health care services provided to Medicaid beneficiaries.  These rates are subject to change by each state, and in some instances, provide for adjustment for health risk factors.  CMS requires these rates to be actuarially sound.  We also receive fees from our customers where we provide services under ASC Medicaid contracts.  Our ASC Medicaid contracts generally are for periods of more than one year, and certain of them contain performance incentives and limited financial risk sharing, with respect to certain medical, financial and operational metrics.  Under these arrangements, performance is evaluated annually with associated financial incentive opportunities and our financial risk share obligations typically are limited to a percentage of the fees otherwise payable to us.  Payments to us under each of these Medicaid contracts are subject to the annual appropriation process in the applicable state.
We offer HMO and consumer-directed medical and dental plans to federal employees under the Federal Employees Health Benefits Program and the Federal Employees Dental and Vision Insurance Program.  Premium rates for those plans are subject to federal government review and audit, which can result, and have resulted, in retroactive and prospective premium adjustments.
Competition The health care benefits industry is highly competitive, primarily due to a large number of profit and not-for-profit competitors, our competitors' marketing and pricing, and a proliferation of competing products, including new products that are continually being introduced into the market.  New entrants into the marketplace, as well as significant consolidation within the industry, have contributed to the competitive environment.
We believe that the significant factors that distinguish competing health plans include the perceived overall quality (including accreditation status), quality of service, comprehensiveness of coverage, cost (including both premium and member out-of-pocket costs), product design, financial stability and ratings, breadth and quality of provider networks, providers available in such networks, and quality of member support and care management programs.  We believe that we are competitive on each of these factors.  Our ability to increase the number of persons covered by our plans or to increase our revenues is affected by our ability to differentiate ourselves from our competitors on these factors.  Competition may also affect the availability of services from health care providers, including primary care physicians, specialists and hospitals.
Page 10 Our Insured products compete with local and regional health care benefits plans, in addition to health care benefits and other plans sponsored by other large commercial health care benefit insurance companies and Blue Cross/Blue Shield plans.  Additional competitors include other types of medical and dental provider organizations, various specialty service providers (including pharmacy benefit management services providers), integrated health care delivery organizations, health information technology (HIT) companies and, for certain plans, programs sponsored by the federal or state governments.  Our ability to increase the number of persons enrolled in our Insured products also is affected by the desire and ability of employers to self-fund their health coverage.
Our ASC plans compete primarily with other large commercial health care benefit companies, Blue Cross/Blue Shield plans and third-party administrators.
Our international products compete with local, global and U.S.-based health plans and commercial health care benefit insurance companies, many of whom have greater scale, a longer operating history and better brand recognition in one or more geographies.
The provider solutions and HIT spaces and provider solutions and HIT products are evolving rapidly.  We compete for provider solutions and HIT business with other large health plans and commercial health care benefit insurance companies as well as information technology companies and companies that specialize in provider solutions and HIT.  Many of our competitors have a longer operating and research and development history in, and greater financial and other resources devoted to, information technology products.
In addition to competitive pressures affecting our ability to obtain new customers or retain existing customers, our membership has been and may continue to be adversely affected by uncertain economic conditions and reductions in workforce by existing customers due to adverse and uncertain general economic conditions, especially in the U.S. and industries where our membership is concentrated.
Reinsurance We currently have several reinsurance agreements with nonaffiliated insurers that relate to Health Care insurance policies.  We entered into these contracts to reduce the risk of catastrophic losses which in turn reduces our capital and surplus requirements. We frequently evaluate reinsurance opportunities and refine our reinsurance and risk management strategies on a regular basis.
Factors Affecting Forward-Looking Information Information regarding certain of the important factors that may materially affect our Health Care business and our statements concerning future events is included in the Forward-Looking Information/Risk Factors section of the MD&A, beginning on page 47 of the Annual Report, which is incorporated herein by reference.
Group Insurance Principal Products Group Insurance products consist primarily of the following:  Life Insurance Products consist principally of group term life insurance, the amounts of which may be fixed or linked to individual employee wage levels.  We also offer voluntary spouse and dependent term life insurance, and group universal life and accidental death and dismemberment insurance.  We offer life insurance products on an Insured basis.
Disability Insurance Products provide employee income replacement benefits for both short-term and long-term disability.  We also offer disability products with additional case management features.  Similar to Health Care products, we offer disability benefits on both an Insured and employer-funded basis.  We also provide absence management services to employers, including short-term and long-term disability administration and leave management.
Page 11  Long-Term Care Insurance Products provide benefits to cover the cost of care in private home settings, adult day care, assisted living or nursing facilities.  Long-term care benefits were offered primarily on an Insured basis.  The product was available on both a service reimbursement and disability basis.  We no longer solicit or accept new long-term care customers.
Principal Markets and Sales We offer our Group Insurance products in 49 states as well as Washington, D.C., Guam, Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands and Canada.  Depending on the product, we market to a range of customers from small employer groups to large, multi-site and/or multi-state employer programs.
We market Group Insurance products and services primarily to employers that sponsor our products for the benefit of their employees and their employees' dependents.  Frequently, employers offer employees a choice of benefits, from which the employee makes his or her selection during a designated annual open enrollment period.  Typically, employers pay all of the monthly premiums to us and, through payroll deductions, obtain reimbursement from employees for a percentage of the premiums that is determined by each employer.  Some Group Insurance products are sold directly to employees of employer groups on a fully employee-funded basis.  In some cases, we bill the covered individual directly.
Group Insurance products are sold through our sales personnel, as well as through independent brokers, agents and consultants who assist in the production and servicing of business.  For large plan sponsors, independent consultants and brokers are frequently involved in employer plan selection decisions and sales.  We pay commissions, fees and other amounts to brokers, agents, consultants and sales representatives who place business with us.  We support our marketing and sales efforts with an advertising program that may include direct marketing efforts as well as television, radio, billboards, print media and social media, supplemented by market research.
Pricing For Insured Group Insurance plans, employer group contracts containing the pricing and other terms of the relationship are generally established in advance of the policy period.  We use prospective and retrospective rating methodologies to determine the premium rates charged to employer groups.  These are typically offered with rate guarantees that generally range from one to three years.
Under prospective rating, a fixed premium rate is determined at the beginning of the policy period.  We cannot recover unanticipated increases in mortality or morbidity costs in the current policy period; however, we may consider prior experience for a product in the aggregate or for a specific customer, among other factors, in determining premium rates for future policy periods.
Under retrospective rating, we determine a premium rate at the beginning of the policy period.  After the policy period has ended, the actual claim and cost experience is reviewed.  If the actual claim costs and other expenses are less than expected, we may issue a refund to the plan sponsor based on this favorable experience.  If the experience is unfavorable, we consider the deficit in setting future premium levels, and in certain instances, we may recover the deficit through contractual provisions such as offsets against refund credits that develop for future policy periods.  However, we may not recover the deficit if a plan sponsor elects to terminate coverage.  Retrospective rating is most often used for Insured employer-funded plans that cover more than approximately 3,000 lives.
Competition For the group insurance industry, we believe that the significant factors that distinguish competing companies are cost, quality of service, financial strength of the insurer, comprehensiveness of coverage, and product array and design.  We believe we are reasonably competitive on each of these factors; however, many of our competitors have greater scale, financial and other resources, financial strength and brand recognition and lower expenses.  The group life and group disability markets remain highly competitive.
Page 12 Reinsurance We currently have several reinsurance agreements with nonaffiliated insurers that relate to both life and long-term disability products.  Most reinsurance arrangements are established on a case-by-case basis, and a subset of our reinsurance agreements cover closed blocks of business and cancelled cases.  We also have reinsurance that provides a limited degree of catastrophic risk protection for certain of our life products.  We frequently evaluate reinsurance opportunities and refine our reinsurance and risk management strategies on a regular basis.
Factors Affecting Forward-Looking Information Information regarding certain of the important factors that may materially affect our Group Insurance business and our statements concerning future events is included in the Forward-Looking Information/Risk Factors section of the MD&A, beginning on page 47 of the Annual Report, which is incorporated herein by reference.
Large Case Pensions Principal Products Large Case Pensions manages a variety of retirement products (including pension and annuity products) primarily for tax-qualified pension plans.  We do not actively market Large Case Pensions products, but continue to accept deposits from existing customers and manage the run-off of our existing business.  Contracts provide non-guaranteed, experience-rated and guaranteed investment options through general and separate account products.  Large Case Pensions products that use separate accounts provide contract holders with a vehicle for investments under which the contract holders primarily assume the investment risk.  Large Case Pensions earns a management fee on these separate accounts.
In 1993, we discontinued our fully-guaranteed Large Case Pensions products.  Information regarding these products is incorporated herein by reference to Note 20 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements beginning on page 131 in the Annual Report.
Factors Affecting Forward-Looking Information Information regarding certain of the important factors that may materially affect our Large Case Pensions business and our statements concerning future events is included in the Forward-Looking Information/Risk Factors section of the MD&A, beginning on page 47 of the Annual Report, which is incorporated herein by reference.
Other Matters Access to Reports Our reports to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC), including our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports are available without charge on our website at www.aetna.com as soon as practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC.  The information on our website is not incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K.  Copies of these reports are also available, without charge, from Aetna's Investor Relations Department, 151 Farmington Avenue, Hartford, CT  06156.
Regulation For information regarding significant regulation affecting us, refer to Regulatory Environment and for a discussion of certain factors that may cause our actual results to differ from currently anticipated results in connection with regulation that affects us, see Forward-Looking Information/Risk Factors, each sections of the MD&A, beginning on pages 28 and 47 , respectively, of the Annual Report, which are incorporated herein by reference.
Page 13 Patents and Trademarks We own a number of trademarks and patents that are important to Aetna.  Some of the trademarks include Aetna  , as well as the corresponding Aetna design logo, Aetna SM , Aetna Navigator  , DocFind  , Healthagen  , Medicity  , PayFlex  , Prodigy Health Group  , Meritain Health  , Healthy Merits  , Active Health  , iTriage  , CarePass  and CareEngine  .  Some of our patents include the CareEngine  patent that expires in 2021, the Inexx architecture patent that expires in 2025, and the Master Patient Index patent that expires in 2028.  We consider these patents and trademarks and our other patents, trademarks and trade names important in the operation of our business.  However, our business, including that of each of our individual segments, is not dependent on any individual patent, trademark or trade name.
Employees We had approximately 35,000 employees at December31, 2012 .
Customer Concentration The U.S. federal government is a significant customer of both the Health Care segment and the Company.  Premiums and fees and other revenue paid by the federal government accounted for approximately 22% of the Health Care segment's revenue and 20% of our consolidated revenue in 2012 .  Contracts with CMS for coverage of Medicare-eligible individuals accounted for 79% of our federal government premiums and fees and other revenue, with the balance coming from federal employee-related benefit programs.  No other individual customer, in any of our segments, accounted for 10% or more of our consolidated revenues in 2012 .  Our segments are not dependent upon a single customer or a few customers, the loss of which would have a significant effect on the earnings of a segment.  The loss of business from any one, or a few, independent brokers or agents would not have a material adverse effect on our earnings or the earnings of any of our segments.  Refer to Note 19 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, beginning on page 128 of the Annual Report, which is incorporated herein by reference, regarding segment information.
Item 1A.  Risk Factors The information contained in the Forward-Looking Information/Risk Factors section of the MD&A, which begins on page 47 of the Annual Report, is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 1B.  Unresolved Staff Comments None.
Item 2.  Properties Our principal office is a building complex that is approximately 1.7 million square feet in size and is located at 151 Farmington Avenue, Hartford, Connecticut.  Our principal office is used by all of our business segments.  We also own or lease other space in the greater Hartford area, Blue Bell, Pennsylvania, and various field locations in the U.S. and several foreign countries.  Such properties are primarily used by our Health Care segment.  We believe our properties are adequate and suitable for our business as presently conducted.
Item 3.  Legal Proceedings The information contained under Litigation and Regulatory Proceedings in Note 18 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which begins on page 125 of the Annual Report, is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 4.  Mine Safety Disclosures Not applicable.
Page 14 EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT Aetna's Chairman is elected by Aetna's Board of Directors (our Board).  All of Aetna's other executive officers listed below are appointed by our Board, generally at its Annual Meeting, and such persons hold office until the next Annual Meeting of our Board or until their successors are elected or appointed.  None of these officers has a family relationship with any other executive officer or Director.  In addition, there are no arrangements or understandings, other than those with Directors or executive officers acting solely in their capacities as such, pursuant to which these executive officers were appointed.
Name of Executive Officer Position * Age * Mark T. Bertolini Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President 56 Joseph M. Zubretsky Senior Executive Vice President, National Businesses and Chief Financial Officer and Chief Enterprise Risk Officer 56 William J. Casazza Senior Vice President and General Counsel 57 Margaret M. McCarthy Executive Vice President, Operations and Technology 59 Lonny Reisman, M.D.
Senior Vice President and Chief Medical Officer 57 Kristi A. Matus Executive Vice President, Government Services 45 Frank G. McCauley Executive Vice President, Commercial Businesses 49 Karen S. Rohan Executive Vice President, Local and Regional Businesses 50 *As of February19, 2013 Executive Officers' Business Experience During Past Five Years Mark T. Bertolini serves as Aetna's Chairman, having held that position since April 8, 2011.  Mr. Bertolini was elected to Aetna's Board and has served as Chief Executive Officer since November 29, 2010.  Mr. Bertolini also serves as President, having held that position since July 24, 2007.  Prior to becoming President, Mr. Bertolini served as Executive Vice President and Head of Business Operations from May 3, 2006 to July 24, 2007.
Joseph M. Zubretsky became Senior Executive Vice President, National Businesses and Chief Financial Officer in February 2013, having served as Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since November 29, 2010, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since April 20, 2007, and Executive Vice President, Finance since February 28, 2007.  Mr. Zubretsky has also served as the Company's Chief Enterprise Risk Officer since April 27, 2007.
William J. Casazza became Senior Vice President and General Counsel on September 6, 2005.
Margaret M. McCarthy became Executive Vice President, Operations and Technology on November 29, 2010, having served as Chief Information Officer and Senior Vice President Innovation, Technology and Service Operations since January 1, 2010.  She also served as Chief Information Officer and Senior Vice President of Procurement and Real Estate from January 30, 2008 to December 31, 2009.  Before that, Ms. McCarthy was Senior Vice President and Chief Information Officer from June 3, 2005 to January 29, 2008.
Lonny Reisman, M.D., became Senior Vice President and Chief Medical Officer on November 12, 2008, having served as Chief Executive Officer and as a director of ActiveHealth Management, Inc. since October 1998.
Kristi A. Matus became Executive Vice President, Government Services on March 5, 2012.  Prior to joining Aetna, Ms. Matus served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of United Services Automobile Association (USAA), a position she assumed in January 2008.
Page 15 Frank G. McCauley became Executive Vice President, Commercial Business on March 5, 2012 having previously served as Senior Vice President of Local Employers and Consumers since February 8, 2010 and Senior Vice President of the Consumer Business Segment since September 24, 2007.
Karen S. Rohan became Executive Vice President, Local and Regional Businesses in February 2013, having served as Executive Vice President, Head of Specialty Products since July 23, 2012. Prior to joining Aetna, Ms. Rohan served as President of Magellan Health Services, a position she assumed in August 2009. Prior to that, Ms. Rohan served as President, CIGNA Group Insurance, Dental and Vision, a position she assumed in November 2005.
Part II Item 5.  Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Our common shares (common stock) are listed on the New York Stock Exchange, where they trade under the symbol AET.  As of January 31, 2013, there were 7,778 record holders of our common stock.
Our Board authorized six separate share repurchase programs on December 3, 2010, May 20, 2011, September 23, 2011, February 24, 2012, July 27, 2012, and February 19, 2013, respectively.  Each repurchase program authorized us to repurchase up to $750 million of our common stock.  During the three months ended December31, 2012, we repurchased approximately 11.0 million shares of our common stock at a cost of approximately $493 million under the February 24, 2012 and July 27, 2012 programs.  At December31, 2012, we had remaining authorization to repurchase approximately $504.7 million of common stock under the July 27, 2012 authorization.
The following table provides information about our monthly share repurchases, all of which were purchased as part of a publicly-announced program, for the three months ended December31, 2012 : Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities (Millions, except per share amounts) Total Number of Shares Purchased Average Price Paid per Share Total Number of Shares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Plans or Programs Approximate Dollar Value of Shares that May Yet Be Purchased Under the Plans or Programs October 1, 2012 - October 31, 2012  $   $ 997.7 November 1, 2012 - November 30, 2012 2.8 42.76 2.8 877.7 December 1, 2012 - December 31, 2012 8.2 45.27 8.2 504.7 Total 11.0 $ 44.63 11.0 N/A In February 2011, we announced that our Board increased our cash dividend to shareholders to $.15 per share and moved us to a quarterly dividend payment cycle.  On December 2, 2011, our Board increased our quarterly cash dividend to shareholders to $.175 per common share.  On November 30, 2012, our Board increased our quarterly dividend to shareholders to $.20 per common share.  On February 19, 2013, our Board declared a cash dividend of $.20 per common share that will be paid on April 26, 2013, to shareholders of record at the close of business on April 11, 2013.  Prior to February 2011, our policy had been to pay an annual dividend of $.04 per share.  Declaration and payment of future dividends is at the discretion of our Board and may be adjusted as business needs or market conditions change.  Information regarding restrictions on our present and future ability to pay dividends is included in the Liquidity and Capital Resources section of the MD&A and Note 16 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, beginning on pages 17 and 123 , respectively, of the Annual Report, which are incorporated herein by reference.  Information regarding quarterly common stock prices is incorporated herein by reference to the Quarterly Data (unaudited) included on page 137 of the Annual Report.
Page 16 Item 6.  Selected Financial Data The information contained in Selected Financial Data on page 76 of the Annual Report is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 7.  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The information contained in the MD&A, beginning on page 2 of the Annual Report, is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 7A.  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk The information contained in the Risk Management and Market-Sensitive Instruments section of the MD&A, beginning on page 16 of the Annual Report, is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data The information contained in Consolidated Financial Statements, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm and Quarterly Data (unaudited), beginning on page 77 of the Annual Report, is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.  Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure None.
Item 9A.  Controls and Procedures Disclosure Controls and Procedures We maintain disclosure controls and procedures, which are designed to ensure that information that we are required to disclose in the reports we file or furnish under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC's rules and forms, and that such information is accumulated and communicated to our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.
An evaluation of the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures as of December31, 2012 was conducted under the supervision and with the participation of our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer.  Based on that evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures as of December31, 2012 were designed to ensure that material information relating to Aetna Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries would be made known to the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer by others within those entities, particularly during the periods when periodic reports under the Exchange Act are being prepared and were effective.  Refer to the Certifications by our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer filed as Exhibits 31.1 and 31.2 to this Form 10-K.
Management's Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting Management's Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting, on page 135 of the Annual Report, is incorporated herein by reference.
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm The Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm, on page 136 of the Annual Report,is incorporated herein by reference.
Page 17 Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting There has been no change in our internal control over financial reporting identified in connection with the evaluation of such control that occurred during our fourth fiscal quarter that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.
Item 9B.  Other Information None.
Part III Item 10.  Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance Information concerning the Executive Officers of Aetna Inc. is included in Part I pursuant to General Instruction G to Form 10-K.
Information concerning our Directors, our Directors' and certain of our executives' compliance with Section 16(a) of the Exchange Act, our Code of Conduct (our written code of ethics) and our audit committee and audit committee financial experts is incorporated herein by reference to the information under the captions Nominees for Directorships, Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance, Aetna's Code of Conduct and Board and Committee Membership; Committee Descriptions in the Proxy Statement.
Item 11.  Executive Compensation The information under the captions Compensation Discussion and Analysis, Director Compensation Philosophy and Elements, Executive Compensation, Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation and Compensation Committee Report in the Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 12.  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters The information under the caption Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners, Directors, Nominees and Executive Officers and Equity Compensation Plans in the Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence The information under the captions Director Independence and Related Party Transaction Policy in the Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 14.  Principal Accounting Fees and Services The information under the captions Fees Incurred for 2012 and 2011 Services Performed by the Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm and Nonaudit Services and Other Relationships Between the Company and the Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm in the Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference.
Part IV Item 15.  Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules The following documents are filed as part of this Form 10-K: Financial Statements The Consolidated Financial Statements, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm, which begin on pages 77 , 82 and 136 , respectively, of the Annual Report, are incorporated herein by reference.
Page 18 Financial statement schedule The Condensed Financial Information of Aetna Inc. (Parent Company Only) is included in this Item 15.  Refer to Index to Financial Statement Schedule on page 23 .
Exhibits* Exhibits to this Form 10-K are as follows: 2 Plan of acquisition, reorganization, arrangement, liquidation or succession 2.1 Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of August 19, 2012 among Aetna Inc., Jaguar Merger Subsidiary, Inc. and Coventry Health Care, Inc., incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 2.1 to Aetna Inc.'s Form 8-K filed on August 22, 2012.
2.2 Amendment No. 1 to Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of October 17, 2012 among Aetna Inc., Jaguar Merger Subsidiary, Inc. and Coventry Health Care, Inc. incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 2.2 to Amendment No. 1 to Aetna's Registration Statement on Form S-4 filed on October 17, 2012 (Registration No. 333-184041).
2.3 Amendment No. 2 to Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of November 12, 2012 among Aetna Inc., Jaguar Merger Subsidiary, Inc. and Coventry Health Care, Inc. incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 2.1 Aetna Inc.'s Form 8-K filed on November 13, 2012.
3 Articles of Incorporation and By-Laws 3.1 Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation of Aetna Inc., incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 99.1 to Aetna Inc.'s Form 8-K filed on May 2, 2007 (SEC file number 001-16095).
3.2 Amended and Restated By-Laws of Aetna Inc., incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to Aetna Inc.'s Form 8-K filed on February 28, 2012.
4 Instruments defining the rights of security holders, including indentures 4.1 Form of Aetna Inc. Common Share certificate, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to Aetna Inc.'s Amendment No. 2 to Registration Statement on Form 10 filed on December 1, 2000.
4.2 Senior Indenture dated as of March 2, 2001, between Aetna Inc. and U.S. Bank National Association, successor in interest to State Street Bank and Trust Company, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to Aetna Inc.'s Registration Statement on Form S-3 filed on December 2, 2011.
4.3 Form of Subordinated Indenture between Aetna Inc. and U.S. Bank National Association, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.3 to Aetna Inc.'s Registration Statement on Form S-3 filed on December 2, 2011.
4.4 Supplemental Indenture dated as of May 20, 2011 between Aetna Inc. and U.S. Bank National Association, as successor-in-interest to State Street Bank and Trust Company, as trustee, establishing and designating Aetna Inc.'s 4.125% Senior Notes due June 1, 2021, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to Aetna Inc.'s Form 8-K filed on May 20, 2011.
4.5 Supplemental Indenture dated as of May 4, 2012 between Aetna Inc. and U.S. Bank National Association, as successor-in-interest to State Street Bank and Trust Company, as trustee, establishing and designating Aetna Inc.'s 1.750% Senior Notes due May 15, 2017 and 4.500% Senior Notes due May 15, 2042, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to Aetna Inc.'s Form 8-K filed on May 4, 2012.
4.6 Supplemental Indenture dated as of November 7, 2012 between Aetna Inc. and U.S. Bank National Association, as successor-in-interest to State Street Bank and Trust Company, as trustee, establishing and designating the Aetna Inc.'s 1.500% Senior Notes due November 15, 2017 and 2.750% Senior Notes due November 15, 2022 and 4.125% Senior Notes due November 15, 2042, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to Aetna Inc.'s Form 8-K filed on November 7, 2012.
Page 19 10 Material contracts 10.1 $1,500,000,000 Five-Year Credit Agreement dated as of March 27, 2012, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 99.1 to Aetna Inc.'s Form 8-K filed on March 28, 2012.
10.2 First Amendment dated as of September 24, 2012, to the $1,500,000,000 Five Year Credit Agreement dated as of March 27, 2012, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 99.2 to Aetna Inc.'s Form 8-K filed on September 27, 2012.
10.3 Incremental Commitment Agreement dated as of September 24, 2012, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 99.3 to Aetna Inc.'s Form 8-K filed on September 27, 2012.
10.4 Amended and Restated Aetna Inc. 2000 Stock Incentive Plan, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to Aetna Inc.'s Form 10-K filed on February 27, 2009.  ** 10.5 Form of Aetna Inc. 2000 Stock Incentive Plan - Stock Appreciation Right Terms of Award, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Aetna Inc.'s Form 10-Q filed on October 26, 2006 (SEC file number 001-16095).  ** 10.6 Form of Aetna Inc. 2000 Stock Incentive Plan - Restricted Stock Unit Terms of Award, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to Aetna Inc.'s Form 10-Q filed on October 26, 2006 (SEC file number 001-16095). ** 10.7 Form of Aetna Inc. 2000 Stock Incentive Plan - Aetna Performance Unit Award Agreement, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to Aetna Inc.'s Form 10-Q filed on October 26, 2006 (SEC file number 001-16095).  ** 10.8 Form of Aetna Inc. 2000 Stock Incentive Plan - Aetna Performance Stock Unit Terms of Award, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.10 to Aetna Inc.'s Form 10-K filed on February 29, 2008.  ** 10.9 Form of Aetna Inc. 2000 Stock Incentive Plan - Restricted Stock Unit Terms of Award, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Aetna Inc.'s Form 10-Q/A filed on August 1, 2008.  ** 10.10 Form of Aetna Inc. 2000 Stock Incentive Plan - Restricted Stock Unit Terms of Award (with non-compete provision), incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to Aetna Inc.'s Form 10-Q/A filed on August 1, 2008.  ** 10.11 Form of Aetna Inc. 2000 Stock Incentive Plan - Market Stock Unit Terms of Award, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Aetna Inc.'s Form 10-Q filed on April 29, 2010.  ** 10.12 Form of Aetna Inc. 2000 Stock Incentive Plan - Performance Stock Unit Terms of Award, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to Aetna Inc.'s Form 10-Q filed on April 29, 2010.  ** 10.13 Form of Aetna Inc. 2000 Stock Incentive Plan - Restricted Stock Unit Terms of Award (2010, with retirement vesting), incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to Aetna Inc.'s Form 10-Q filed on April 29, 2010.  ** 10.14 Form of Aetna Inc. 2000 Stock Incentive Plan - Restricted Stock Unit Terms of Award (2010, without retirement vesting), incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to Aetna Inc.'s Form 10-Q filed on April 29, 2010.  ** 10.15 Amended and Restated Aetna Inc. 2002 Stock Incentive Plan, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.11 to Aetna Inc.'s Form 10-K filed February 27, 2009.  ** 10.16 Amended Aetna Inc. 2010 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended May 20, 2011, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Aetna Inc.'s Form 8-K filed on May 23, 2011.  ** 10.17 Form of Aetna Inc. 2010 Stock Incentive Plan  Restricted Stock Unit Terms of Award (with non-compete provision), incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Aetna Inc.'s Form 10-Q filed on April 28, 2011. ** 10.18 Form of Aetna Inc. 2010 Stock Incentive Plan  Market Stock Unit Terms of Award, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to Aetna Inc.'s Form 10-Q filed on April 28, 2011. ** Page 20 10.19 Form of Aetna Inc. 2010 Stock Incentive Plan  Performance Stock Unit Terms of Award, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to Aetna Inc.'s Form 10-Q filed on April 28, 2011. ** 10.20 Form of Aetna Inc. 2010 Stock Incentive Plan  Restricted Stock Unit Terms of Award (2011, with retirement vesting), incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to Aetna Inc.'s Form 10-Q filed on April 28, 2011. ** 10.21 Form of Aetna Inc. 2010 Stock Incentive Plan  Restricted Stock Unit Terms of Award (2011, without retirement vesting), incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.5 to Aetna Inc.'s Form 10-Q filed on April 28, 2011. ** 10.22 Form of Aetna Inc. 2010 Stock Incentive Plan  Stock Appreciation Right Agreement, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.6 to Aetna Inc.'s Form 10-Q filed on April 28, 2011. ** 10.23 Amended and Restated Aetna Inc. 2001 Annual Incentive Plan, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.5 to Aetna Inc.'s Form 10-Q filed on April 29, 2010.  ** 10.24 Aetna Inc. 2010 Non-Employee Director Compensation Plan, incorporated herein by reference to Annex C to Aetna Inc.'s definitive proxy statement on Schedule 14A filed on April 12, 2010. ** 10.25 Aetna Inc. Non-Employee Director Compensation Plan as Amended through December 5, 2008, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.13 to Aetna Inc.'s Form 10-K filed on February 27, 2009.  ** 10.26 Form of Aetna Inc. Non-Employee Director Compensation Plan - Restricted Stock Unit Agreement, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to Aetna Inc.'s Form 10-Q filed on October 26, 2006 (SEC file number 001-16095).  ** 10.27 1999 Director Charitable Award Program, as Amended and Restated on January 25, 2008, incorporated herein by referenced to Exhibit 10.15 to Aetna Inc.'s Form 10-K filed on February 29, 2008.  ** 10.28 Aetna Inc. 2011 Employee Stock Purchase Plan dated as of May 20, 2011, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.4 to Aetna Inc.'s Registration Statement on Form S-8 filed on August 3, 2011.  ** 10.29 Amended and Restated Employment Agreement dated October 19, 2010 between Aetna Inc. and Mark T. Bertolini, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to Aetna Inc.'s Form 10-Q filed on November 3, 2010.  ** 10.30 Letter agreement dated February 6, 2007 between Aetna Inc. and Joseph M. Zubretsky, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.29 to Aetna Inc.'s Form 10-K filed on February 27, 2007.  ** 10.31 Amendment No. 1 to Employment Agreement dated as of December 17, 2008 between Aetna Inc. and Joseph M. Zubretsky, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.23 to Aetna Inc.'s Form 10-K filed on February 27, 2009.  ** 10.32 Letter agreement dated July 20, 2000 between Aetna Inc. and William J. Casazza, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to Aetna Inc.'s Form 10-Q filed on April 24, 2008 (SEC file number 001-16095).  ** 10.33 Amended and Restated Employment Agreement, dated as of December 21, 2004, between ActiveHealth Management, Inc. and Lonny Reisman, M.D., incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Aetna Inc.'s Form 10-Q filed on April 29, 2009.  ** 10.34 Employment Agreement Amendment, dated as of May 12, 2005, among Aetna Inc., ActiveHealth Management, Inc. and Lonny Reisman, M.D., incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to Aetna Inc.'s Form 10-Q filed on April 29, 2009.  ** 10.35 Amendment No. 2 to Employment Agreement, dated as of December 31, 2008, between Aetna Inc. and Lonny Reisman, M.D., incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to Aetna Inc.'s Form 10-Q filed on April 29, 2009.  ** 10.36 Descriptions of certain arrangements not embodied in formal documents as described under the headings 2012 Nonmanagement Director Compensation and Additional Director Compensation Information are incorporated herein by reference to the Proxy Statement. ** Page 21 11 Statement re: computation of per share earnings 11.1 Computation of per share earnings is incorporated herein by reference to Note 4 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements on page 92 of the Annual Report.
12 Statement re: computation of ratios 12.1 Computation of ratio of earnings to fixed charges.
13 Annual report to security holders 13.1 Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Selected Financial Data, Consolidated Financial Statements, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Management's Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting, Management's Responsibility for Financial Statements, Audit Committee Oversight, Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm, Quarterly Data (unaudited) and Corporate Performance Graph are incorporated herein by reference to the Annual Report and filed herewith in electronic format.
21 Subsidiaries of the registrant 21.1 Subsidiaries of Aetna Inc.
23 Consents of experts and counsel 23.1 Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm.
24 Power of Attorney 24.1 Power of Attorney.
31 Rule 13a - 14(a)/15d - 14(e) Certifications 31.1 Certification.
31.2 Certification.
32 Section 1350 Certifications 32.1 Certification.
32.2 Certification.
99 Other Exhibits 99.1 Risk Factors of Coventry Health Care, Inc.
101 XBRL Documents 101.INS XBRL Instance Document.
101.SCH XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema.
101.CAL XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase.
101.DEF XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase.
101.LAB XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase.
101.PRE XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase.
* Exhibits other than those listed are omitted because they are not required to be listed or are not applicable.  Copies of exhibits, including exhibits that are not required to be listed, will be furnished without charge upon written request to the Office of the Corporate Secretary, Aetna Inc., 151 Farmington Avenue, Hartford, Connecticut 06156.
** Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.
Page 22 Index to Financial Statement Schedule Page Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 24 Schedule I: Financial Information of Aetna Inc. (Parent Company Only): Statements of Income 25 Statements of Comprehensive Income 26 Balance Sheets 27 Statements of Shareholders' Equity 28 Statements of Cash Flows 29 Notes to Financial Statements 30 Page 23 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm The Board of Directors and Shareholders Aetna Inc.: Under the date of February19, 2013 , we reported on the consolidated balance sheets of Aetna Inc. and subsidiaries (the Company) as of December 31, 2012 and 2011, and the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, shareholders' equity and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2012, as contained in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2012.In connection with our audits of the aforementioned consolidated financial statements, we also audited the related financial statement schedule listed in the accompanying index. The financial statement schedule is the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the financial statement schedule based on our audits.
In our opinion, such financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein.
/s/ KPMG LLP Hartford, Connecticut February19, 2013 Page 24 Schedule I - Financial Information of Aetna Inc.
Aetna Inc. (Parent Company Only) Statements of Income For the Years Ended December 31, (Millions) 2012 2011 2010 Net investment income $ 1.5 $ .8 $ 1.5 Other income  .2  Net realized capital gains  .4 3.0 Total revenue 1.5 1.4 4.5 Operating expenses 136.1 157.8 (27.8 ) Interest expense 268.8 246.9 254.6 Loss on early extinguishment of long-term debt 84.9   Total expenses 489.8 404.7 226.8 Loss before income tax benefit and equity in earnings of affiliates, net (488.3 ) (403.3 ) (222.3 ) Income tax benefit 156.1 140.1 66.6 Equity in earnings of affiliates, net (1) 1,990.1 2,248.9 1,922.5 Net income $ 1,657.9 $ 1,985.7 $ 1,766.8 (1) Includes amortization of other acquired intangible assets after-tax of $92.3 million , $78.5 million and $61.9 million for the years ended December 31, 2012 , 2011 and 2010 , respectively.
Refer to accompanying Notes to Financial Statements.
Page 25 Aetna Inc. (Parent Company Only) Statements of Comprehensive Income For the Years Ended December 31, (Millions) 2012 2011 2010 Net income $ 1,657.9 $ 1,985.7 $ 1,766.8 Other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax: Previously impaired debt securities: (1) Net unrealized gains ($3.7, $3.7, and $65.4 pretax) 2.4 2.4 42.5 Less: reclassification of gains to earnings ($5.1, $29.7, and $83.8 pretax) 3.3 19.3 67.7 Total previously impaired debt securities (1) (.9 ) (16.9 ) (25.2 ) All other securities: Net unrealized gains ($468.3, $518.8, and $503.8 pretax) 304.4 337.2 327.5 Less: reclassification of gains to earnings ($113.8, $180.3, and $238.3 pretax) 74.4 117.2 188.0 Total all other securities 230.0 220.0 139.5 Foreign currency and derivatives: Net unrealized gains (losses) ($1.4, $(14.2), and $(82.9) pretax) .9 (9.2 ) (53.9 ) Less: reclassification of losses to earnings ($(5.0), $(4.3), and $(1.6) pretax) (3.3 ) (2.8 ) (1.3 ) Total foreign currency and derivatives 4.2 (6.4 ) (52.6 ) Pension and other postretirement benefit (OPEB) plans: Unrealized net actuarial losses arising during the period ($(189.8), $(402.6), and $(152.8) pretax) (123.4 ) (261.7 ) (99.3 ) Amortization of net actuarial losses ($74.7, $63.2, and $167.8 pretax) 48.6 41.1 109.1 Amortization of prior service credit ($(4.1), $(4.1), and $(17.0) pretax) (2.7 ) (2.7 ) (11.1 ) Total pension and OPEB plans (77.5 ) (223.3 ) (1.3 ) Other comprehensive income (loss) 155.8 (26.6 ) 60.4 Comprehensive income $ 1,813.7 $ 1,959.1 $ 1,827.2 (1) Represents unrealized losses on the non-credit related component of impaired debt securities that we do not intend to sell and subsequent changes in the fair value of any previously impaired debt security.
Refer to accompanying Notes to Financial Statements.
Page 26 Aetna Inc. (Parent Company Only) Balance Sheets At December 31, (Millions) 2012 2011 Assets Current assets: Cash and cash equivalents $ 2,206.7 $ 37.6 Investments 175.2 38.7 Other receivables 11.0  Dividend receivable from affiliate  425.0 Income taxes receivable 64.9 13.9 Deferred income taxes 43.2 49.8 Other current assets 32.3 31.9 Total current assets 2,533.3 596.9 Investment in affiliates (1) 15,489.8 15,354.4 Long-term investments 8.2  Deferred income taxes 419.8 482.6 Other long-term assets 47.3 30.0 Total assets $ 18,498.4 $ 16,463.9 Liabilities and shareholders' equity Current liabilities: Short-term debt $  $ 425.9 Accrued expenses and other current liabilities 426.9 769.5 Total current liabilities 426.9 1,195.4 Long-term debt 6,481.3 3,977.7 Employee benefit liabilities 1,147.4 1,132.2 Income taxes payable 3.2  Other long-term liabilities 33.8 38.4 Total liabilities 8,092.6 6,343.7 Shareholders' equity: Common stock ($.01 par value; 2.6 billion shares authorized and 327.6 million shares issued and outstanding in 2012; 2.6 billion shares authorized and 349.7 million shares issued and outstanding in 2011) and additional paid-in capital 1,095.3 962.8 Retained earnings 10,343.9 10,346.6 Accumulated other comprehensive loss (1,033.4 ) (1,189.2 ) Total shareholders' equity 10,405.8 10,120.2 Total liabilities and shareholders' equity $ 18,498.4 $ 16,463.9 (1) Includes goodwill and other acquired intangible assets of $7.0 billion and $7.2 billion at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively.
Refer to accompanying Notes to Financial Statements.
Page 27 Aetna Inc. (Parent Company Only) Statements of Shareholders' Equity (Millions) Number of Common Shares Outstanding Common Stock and Additional Paid-in Capital Retained Earnings Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss Total Shareholders' Equity Balance at December 31, 2009 430.8 470.1 10,256.7 (1,223.0 ) 9,503.8 Net income   1,766.8  1,766.8 Other comprehensive income    60.4 60.4 Common shares issued for benefit plans, including tax benefits 6.0 181.9   181.9 Repurchases of common shares (52.4 ) (.5 ) (1,605.5 )  (1,606.0 ) Dividends declared   (16.1 )  (16.1 ) Balance at December 31, 2010 384.4 651.5 10,401.9 (1,162.6 ) 9,890.8 Net income   1,985.7  1,985.7 Other comprehensive loss    (26.6 ) (26.6 ) Common shares issued for benefit plans, including tax benefits 10.4 311.7   311.7 Repurchases of common shares (45.1 ) (.4 ) (1,812.6 )  (1,813.0 ) Dividends declared   (228.4 )  (228.4 ) Balance at December 31, 2011 349.7 962.8 10,346.6 (1,189.2 ) 10,120.2 Net income   1,657.9  1,657.9 Other comprehensive income    155.8 155.8 Common shares issued for benefit plans, including tax benefits 10.2 132.8   132.8 Repurchases of common shares (32.3 ) (.3 ) (1,417.2 )  (1,417.5 ) Dividends declared   (243.4 )  (243.4 ) Balance at December 31, 2012 327.6 $ 1,095.3 $ 10,343.9 $ (1,033.4 ) $ 10,405.8 Refer to accompanying Notes to Financial Statements.
Page 28 Aetna Inc. (Parent Company Only) Statements of Cash Flows For the Years Ended December 31, (Millions) 2012 2011 2010 Cash flows from operating activities: Net income $ 1,657.9 $ 1,985.7 $ 1,766.8 Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash used for operating activities: Loss on early extinguishment of long-term debt 84.9   Equity earnings of affiliates (1) (1,990.1 ) (2,248.9 ) (1,922.5 ) Stock-based compensation expense 122.2 141.4 110.4 Net realized capital losses  (.4 ) (3.0 ) Net change in other assets and other liabilities 48.3 388.7 (165.9 ) Net cash (used for) provided by operating activities (76.8 ) 266.5 (214.2 ) Cash flows from investing activities: Proceeds from sales and maturities of investments 112.8 51.2 1.1 Cost of investments (249.5 )  (42.2 ) Dividends received from affiliates, net 2,062.5 1,768.7 2,040.6 Cash used for acquisitions, net of cash acquired  (716.1 )  Net cash provided by investing activities 1,925.8 1,103.8 1,999.5 Cash flows from financing activities: Net repayment of long-term debt (277.2 ) (900.0 )  Net issuance of long-term debt 2,664.8 480.1 697.8 Net issuance (repayment) of short-term debt (425.9 ) 425.9 (480.8 ) Common shares issued under benefit plans (44.5 ) 125.5 43.2 Stock-based compensation tax benefits 50.3 38.5 22.5 Common shares repurchased (1,417.5 ) (1,813.0 ) (1,606.0 ) Collateral held on interest rate swaps 9.2 (2.0 ) (41.7 ) Dividends paid to shareholders (239.1 ) (167.2 ) (16.1 ) Net cash provided by (used for) financing activities 320.1 (1,812.2 ) (1,381.1 ) Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 2,169.1 (441.9 ) 404.2 Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of period 37.6 479.5 75.3 Cash and cash equivalents, end of period $ 2,206.7 $ 37.6 $ 479.5 Supplemental cash flow information: Interest paid $ 259.8 $ 254.0 $ 242.9 Income taxes refunded 282.3 247.6 198.5 (1) Includes amortization of other acquired intangible assets after-tax of $92.3 million , $78.5 million and $61.9 million for the years ended December 31, 2012 , 2011 and 2010 , respectively.
Refer to accompanying Notes to Financial Statements.
Page 29 Aetna Inc. (Parent Company Only) Notes to Financial Statements 1. Organization The financial statements reflect financial information for Aetna Inc. (a Pennsylvania corporation) only (the Parent Company).  The financial information presented herein includes the balance sheet of the Parent Company as of December 31, 2012 and 2011 and the related statements of income, comprehensive income, shareholders' equity and cash flows for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010.  The accompanying financial statements should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto in the Annual Report.
2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Refer to Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, beginning on page 82 of the Annual Report, for the summary of significant accounting policies.
3. Dividends Gross cash dividends received from subsidiaries and included in net cash provided by investing activities in the Statements of Cash Flows were $1.7 billion, $2.5 billion and $2.1 billion in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively.
4. Acquisitions and Dispositions Refer to Note 3 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, on page 90 of the Annual Report, for a description of acquisitions and dispositions.
5. Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) Refer to Note 9 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, beginning on page 101 of the Annual Report, for a description of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss).
6. Debt Refer to Note 14 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, on page 120 of the Annual Report, for a description of debt.
Page 30 Signatures Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
Date:    February 19, 2013 Aetna Inc.
By: /s/ Rajan Parmeswar Rajan Parmeswar Vice President, Controller and Chief Accounting Officer Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.
Signer Title Date /s/ Mark T. Bertolini Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, February19, 2013 Mark T. Bertolini President and Director (Principal Executive Officer) /s/ Joseph M. Zubretsky Senior Executive Vice President, February19, 2013 Joseph M. Zubretsky National Businesses and Chief Financial Officer (Principal Financial Officer) /s/ Rajan Parmeswar Vice President, Controller and February19, 2013 Rajan Parmeswar Chief Accounting Officer (Principal Accounting Officer) Fernando Aguirre * Director Frank M. Clark * Director Betsy Z. Cohen * Director Roger N. Farah * Director Barbara Hackman Franklin * Director Jeffrey E. Garten * Director Ellen M. Hancock * Director Richard J. Harrington * Director Edward J. Ludwig * Director Joseph P. Newhouse * Director * By:  / s/ Rajan Parmeswar Rajan Parmeswar Attorney-in-fact February 19, 2013 Page 31 INDEX TO EXHIBITS Exhibit Filing Number Description of Exhibit Method 12 Statement re: computation of ratios 12.1 Computation of ratio of earnings to fixed charges.
Electronic 13 Annual report to security holders 13.1 Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Selected Financial Data, Consolidated Financial Statements, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Management's Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting, Management's Responsibility for Financial Statements, Audit Committee Oversight, Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm, Quarterly Data (unaudited) and Corporate Performance Graph sections of the Annual Report.
Electronic 21 Subsidiaries of the registrant 21.1 Subsidiaries of Aetna Inc.
Electronic 23 Consents of experts and counsel 23.1 Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm.
Electronic 24 Power of Attorney 24.1 Power of Attorney.
Electronic 31 Rule 13a - 14(a)/15d - 14(e) Certifications 31.1 Certification.
Electronic 31.2 Certification.
Electronic 32 Section 1350 Certifications 32.1 Certification.
Electronic 32.2 Certification.
Electronic 99 Other Exhibits 99.1 Risk Factors of Coventry Health Care, Inc.
101 XBRL Documents 101.INS XBRL Instance Document.
101.SCH XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema.
101.CAL XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase.
101.DEF XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase.
101.LAB XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase.
101.PRE XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase.