http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1465112/000104746915001196/a2223104z10-k.htm
34022895210.0
DTV
2015-06-04
10-K
DTV_2015-06-04_10-K.txt

10-K 1 a2223104z10-k.htm 10-K Use these links to rapidly review the document TABLE OF CONTENTS Table of Contents UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D.C. 20549 FORM 10-K (Mark One)  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION13 or 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF1934 For the fiscal year ended December31, 2014 OR o TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION13 or 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF1934 For the transition period fromto Commission file number1-34554 DIRECTV (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) DELAWARE (State or other jurisdiction of incorporation or organization) 26-4772533 (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.) 2260 East Imperial Highway, El Segundo, California (Address of Principal Executive Offices) 90245 (Zip Code) Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (310)964-5000 Securities registered pursuant to Section12(b) of the Act: Title of Each Class Name of Exchange on Which Registered Common Stock, $0.01 par value NASDAQ Global Select Market Securities registered pursuant to Section12(g) of the Act: None Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule405 of the Securities Act.Yes  No o Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section13 or Section15(d) of the Act.Yes o No  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1)has filed all reports required to be filed by Section13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2)has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90days.Yes  No o Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Website, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule405 of RegulationS-T (232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files).Yes  No o Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item405 of RegulationS-K (229.405 of this chapter) is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in PartIII of this Form10-K or any amendment to this Form10-K.
o Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See definition of "large accelerated filer," "accelerated filer" and "smaller reporting company" in Rule12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (Check one): Large accelerated filer  Accelerated filer o Non-accelerated filer o (Do not check if a smaller reporting company) Smaller reporting company o Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule12b-2 of the Exchange Act).Yes o No  As of June30, 2014, the aggregate market value of the registrant's voting and non-voting common equity held by non-affiliates was $34,022,895,210.
As of February13, 2015, the registrant had outstanding 502,801,382 shares of common stock.
Documents incorporated by reference are as follows: Document Part and Item Number of Form10-K into which Incorporated DIRECTV Form10-K/A to be filed no later than April30, 2015 PartI, Item5 PartIII, Items10 through 14 Table of Contents TABLE OF CONTENTS Page No.
PartI Item1. Business 2 Item1A. Risk Factors 25 Item1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 38 Item2. Properties 38 Item3. Legal Proceedings 38 Item4. Mine Safety Disclosures 39 PartII Item5. Market for the Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 40 Item6. Selected Financial Data 41 Item7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 42 Item7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 73 Item8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 75 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 75 Consolidated Statements of Operations for the Years Ended December31, 2014, 2013 and 2012 76 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income for the Years Ended December31, 2014, 2013 and 2012 77 Consolidated Balance Sheets for the Years Ended December31, 2014 and 2013 78 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Stockholders' Deficit and Noncontrolling Interest for the Years Ended December31, 2014, 2013 and 2012 79 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the Years Ended December31, 2014, 2013 and 2012 80 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 82 Item9. Changes In and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 136 Item9A. Controls and Procedures 136 Item9B. Other Information 138 PartIII Item10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 138 Item11. Executive Compensation 138 Item12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 138 Item13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 138 Item14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 138 PartIV Item15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 138 Signatures 145 Table of Contents DIRECTV CAUTIONARY STATEMENT FOR PURPOSE OF THE "SAFE HARBOR" PROVISIONS OF THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF1995 This Annual Report on Form10-K may contain certain statements that we believe are, or may be considered to be, "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of various provisions of the Securities Act of 1933 and of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These forward-looking statements generally can be identified by use of statements that include phrases such as we "believe," "expect," "estimate," "anticipate," "intend," "plan," "foresee," "project" or other similar references to future periods. Examples of forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements we make related to our business strategy and regarding our outlook for 2015 financial results, liquidity and capital resources.
Forward-looking statements are based on our current expectations and assumptions regarding our business, the economy and other future conditions. Because forward-looking statements relate to the future, they are subject to inherent uncertainties, risks and changes in circumstances that are difficult to predict. Our actual results may differ materially from those contemplated by the forward-looking statements. We caution you therefore against relying on any of these forward-looking statements. They are neither statements of historical fact nor guarantees or assurances of future performance. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements include economic, business, competitive, national or global political, market and regulatory conditions and other risks, each of which is described in more detail in Item1A-Risk Factors of this Annual Report.
Any forward-looking statement made by us in this Annual Report on Form10-K speaks only as of the date on which it is made. Factors or events that could cause our actual results to differ may occur and it is not possible for us to predict them all. We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise, except as required by law.
1 Table of Contents DIRECTV PART I ITEM 1.BUSINESS DIRECTV, which we also refer to as the Company, we, or us, is a leading provider of digital television entertainment in the United States and Latin America. We operate two direct-to-home, or DTH, business units: DIRECTV U.S. and DIRECTV Latin America, which are differentiated by their geographic location and are engaged in acquiring, promoting, selling and distributing digital entertainment programming primarily via satellite to residential and commercial subscribers. In addition, we own and operate two regional sports networks, or RSNs, and retain a non-controlling interest in two other RSNs, all of which operate under the brand name ROOT SPORTS. We also own a 42% interest in Game Show Network,LLC, or GSN, a television network dedicated to game-related programming and Internet interactive game playing. We account for our investments in GSN and the two RSNs in which we own non-controlling interest using the equity method of accounting.
DIRECTV U.S.
DIRECTV HoldingsLLC and its subsidiaries, which we refer to as DIRECTV U.S., is the largest provider of DTH digital television services and the second largest provider in the multi-channel video programming distribution, or MVPD, industry in the United States. As of December31, 2014, DIRECTV U.S. had approximately 20.4million subscribers.
DIRECTV Latin America.
DIRECTV Latin America Holdings,Inc. and its subsidiaries, or DIRECTV Latin America, is a leading provider of DTH digital television services throughout Latin America. DIRECTV Latin America is comprised of: PanAmericana, which provides services in Argentina, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Peru, Puerto Rico, Venezuela and certain other countries in the region, and Sky Brasil ServicosLtda., or Sky Brasil, which is a 93% owned subsidiary. DIRECTV Latin America also includes our 41% equity method investment in Innova, S. de R.L. de C.V., or Sky Mexico, which we include in the PanAmericana and Other segment. As of December31, 2014, PanAmericana had approximately 6.8million subscribers, Sky Brasil had approximately 5.6million subscribers and Sky Mexico had approximately 6.6million subscribers.
DIRECTV Sports Networks.
DIRECTV Sports NetworksLLC and its subsidiaries, or DSN, is comprised primarily of two wholly owned regional sports networks based in Denver, Colorado and Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania and two regional sports networks based in Seattle, Washington and Houston, Texas in which DSN retains a non-controlling interest, each of which operates under the brand name ROOT SPORTS. Please see Note4 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in PartII, Item8 of this Annual Report for more information regarding the acquisition of the regional sports network based in Houston, Texas. The operating results of DSN are reported as part of the "Sports Networks, Eliminations and Other" reporting segment.
Our vision is to make DIRECTV the best video experience anytime and anywhere for customers in both the United States and Latin America. Our primary strategy for achieving this vision is to combine unique and compelling content along with technological innovation and industry-leading customer service to make DIRECTV the clear choice among consumers throughout the Americas. We believe that our employees' commitment to excellence is integral to the success of this strategy and to the future of our company. We intend to advance a service-oriented culture focused on building lifelong customer relationships while maintaining financial strength and a cost structure that enables profitable growth in the markets we serve.
The DIRECTV team is committed to our company values: leadership, innovation, decisiveness, agility, teamwork and integrity. We believe sustaining a high level of employee engagement and developing the talent we have among our people cultivates an environment of loyalty and can be directly correlated with increased customer satisfaction, productivity and profitability. Therefore, we have intensified our leadership development programs, and placed an even greater emphasis on diversity and an inclusive workplace culture to foster higher levels of innovation, engagement, cross-functional teamwork and collaboration. We also believe it is important to promote the behaviors that reflect our company values within the communities that we serve through volunteer 2 Table of Contents DIRECTV service projects, employee-driven corporate citizenship programs and meaningful educational initiatives that impact and enrich students' curriculum. In addition, we are supporting sustainable business practices company-wide, to help ensure that our planet is healthy for future generations. DIRECTV's common stock trades on the NASDAQ Global Select Market, or NASDAQ, under the ticker "DTV". DIRECTV was incorporated in Delaware in 2009.
PROPOSED AT&T MERGER TRANSACTION DIRECTV's U.S. business operates in a highly competitive market with challenging content economics and business model disruption from new offerings and technologies (See Risk Factors section below). In addition, consumer preferences continue to shift to purchasing a bundle of video and broadband services, as well as watching more content on demand and consuming media through mobile devices. To address these and other strategic challenges, on May18, 2014, DIRECTV and AT&T announced that they entered into a definitive agreement under which DIRECTV will combine with AT&T in a stock and cash transaction. The Agreement and Plan of Merger, which was included as Exhibit2.1 to the Form8-K filed with the SEC on May19, 2014, or the Merger Agreement, was approved unanimously by the Board of Directors of each company and was approved by our stockholders at a special meeting held on September25, 2014. We believe the proposed combination with AT&T, when completed, will provide us the opportunity to access additional resources to better compete and grow our business despite this environment.
As discussed more fully in the Registration Statement on FormS-4 filed by AT&T with the Securities and Exchange Commission on July1, 2014, we believe the combination of AT&T's 21 state wireline footprint, which covers 55million customer locations, with DIRECTV's best-in-class product and services will allow DIRECTV and AT&T to offer a customer-friendly bundled service that will more effectively compete with similar offers from cable competitors. In addition, we expect to offer a bundle of DIRECTV video and AT&T wireless service nationwidea service which has over 100million subscribersthat we believe consumers will find compelling in part due to the continued shift in consumers viewing habits onto their mobile devices. The combination will also provide the possibility to be more efficient with regards to content costs due to the merged company's larger scale combined with the opportunity for programmers to offer their product to a broader set of customers. In addition, the combination of the two companies will potentially allow for new and expanded Internet delivered services as well as a wider roll out of broadband offerings to rural areas, many of which will for the first time have the opportunity to take advantage of lower priced bundled offerings.
We believe that the proposed transaction, which is subject to regulatory approval, will be approved and completed in the first half of 2015. The following discussion lays out the strengths and strategies of our U.S. and Latin America businesses as they stand today, prior to the consummation of the merger, which is awaiting regulatory approval.
DIRECTV U.S.
Through DIRECTV U.S., we provide approximately 20.4million subscribers with access to hundreds of channels of digital-quality video entertainment and audio programming that we transmit directly to subscribers' homes or businesses via high-powered geosynchronous satellites. We also provide video-on-demand, or VOD, by "pushing" top-rated movies onto customers' digital video recorders, or DVRs, for instant viewing, as well as via broadband to our subscribers who have connected their set-top receiver to their broadband service. In addition, our subscribers have the ability to use directv.com or our mobile applications for smartphones and tablets to view authorized content, search program listings and schedule DVR recordings.
We believe we provide one of the most extensive collections of programming available in the MVPD industry (all of the channel, program and title counts below are roughly as of year end 2014 unless otherwise noted). This includes over 195 national high-definition, or HD, television channels, one dedicated Ultra-HD, or 4K, channel and one dedicated 3D channel. In addition, we offer video-on-demand, or VOD, service named 3 Table of Contents DIRECTV DIRECTV CINEMA, which provides a selection of approximately 12,000 movie and television programs to our broadband-connected subscribers. Through directv.com our subscribers have access to over 21,000 movie and television programs. We also provide local channel coverage to markets covering over 99% of U.S. television households, virtually all in HD.
We also provide premium professional and collegiate sports programming such as the NFL SUNDAY TICKET package, which allows subscribers to view the largest selection of NFL games available each Sunday during the regular season. Under our contract with the NFL, we have exclusive rights to provide this service, including rights to provide related broadband, HD, VOD, interactive and mobile services.
To subscribe to the DIRECTV service, subscribers sign up for our service directly through us or our national retailers, independent satellite television retailers or dealers, or regional telephone companies, which we refer to as telcos. We or one of our home service providers or dealers generally install the receiving equipment. The receiving equipment, which we refer to as a DIRECTV System, consists of a receiving satellite dish antenna, one or more digital set-top receivers, which are typically leased to the subscriber, and remote controls. After acquiring and installing a DIRECTV System, subscribers activate the DIRECTV service by contacting us and subscribing to one of our programming packages that are tailored to appeal to specific segments of existing and potential customers.
Key Strengths  Large Subscriber Base.
We are the largest provider of DTH digital television services and the second largest MVPD provider in the United States, in each case based on the number of subscribers. We believe that our large subscriber base provides us with the opportunity to obtain programming on favorable terms vis a vis smaller competitors and secure unique and exclusive programming. We also believe that our large subscriber base contributes to achieving other economies of scale in areas such as DIRECTV System equipment purchasing, customer service, installation and repair, broadcast operations and general and administrative services.
Leading Brand Name.
We commissioned a study in 2013 which indicated that 95% of consumers in the United States recognized the DIRECTV brand name. We believe the strength of our brand name is an important factor in our ability to attract new subscribers and retain existing subscribers. In addition, we believe our recognized brand name enhances our ability to secure strategic alliances with programmers, distributors and other technology and service providers.
Substantial Channel Capacity and Programming Content.
As a result of our significant channel capacity, we believe we are able to deliver to our subscribers one of the widest selections of local and national programming available today in the United States, including exclusive programming such as the NFL SUNDAY TICKET package, original series content such as ROGUE and KINGDOM, international programming, premium channels, regional sports networks and one of the most extensive national HD offerings currently available in the industry. In addition, we believe that we offer one of the most comprehensive collections of sports programming content available both inside and outside of the home, highlighted by the NFL SUNDAY TICKET MAX package.
High-Quality Digital Picture and Sound, Including HD and 3D Programming.
Our video and audio programming is 100% digitally delivered, providing subscribers with digital-quality video and sound. We believe this compares favorably with cable providers, as DIRECTV's picture quality has consistently been rated higher than cable in J.D. Power and Associates' annual survey. In addition, we believe we currently offer one of the nation's most comprehensive selections of HD channels, including a large collection of 1080p HD movies. Also, we currently offer one dedicated channel for 3D programming and another for 4K programming. In the future, we expect to carry additional 4K programming, the next generation of improved picture quality.
4 Table of Contents DIRECTV  Sales and Marketing.
We sell DIRECTV through a number of distribution channels, including direct sales, online, telcos, national sales providers, local sales providers and consumer electronics retailers. We believe this variety of distribution alternatives coupled with sophisticated marketing programs has enabled us to continue to grow our subscriber base in an increasingly competitive and mature business.
Technology.
We devote considerable resources to improving our set-top receivers, including the middleware for our receivers, as well as developing new services such as in-home and out-of-home video streaming. For example in 2013, we introduced the next generation DIRECTV Genie, a premium high-definition whole-home DVR with a terabyte hard drive that allows consumers to record five different high-definition programs simultaneously while viewing and controlling content from one DVR to four different locations in the house at the same time with the appropriate equipment. Our new DIRECTV Genie is our fastest and most reliable DVR to date and comes equipped with a unique personalized recommendation engine, the ability to create a customizable sports portal for your favorite teams, built in Wi-Fi to access VOD content and the ability to watch 4K programming when the customer also uses a DIRECTV-Ready 4K television. In addition, we continue to evolve our platform to meet our subscribers' desire to view quality content where they want it most. For example in 2014, we expanded access to our live streaming content offerings on certain devices both inside and outside of the home and increased the programming available for subscribers to watch provided they are connected to the Internet. We have also improved the quality and reliability of our streaming technology to improve the experience as well as making significant improvements to our website and applications to make it easier to find the content our customers want to watch more easily and quickly. These improvements have led to significant increases in both the number of customers streaming content as well as the amount of content they watch. We also expect to further optimize our DIRECTV Everywhere offerings with enhancements to the second screen experience, such as increased functionality, personalization, social integration and commerce capabilities.
Strong Customer Satisfaction.
We have attained top rankings in customer satisfaction studies for our industry. For example, we have scored higher than the largest national cable providers in customer satisfaction for fourteen consecutive years in the American Customer Satisfaction Index. In addition, over the last three years, we have more than doubled our Net Promoter Score, or NPS, as measured by SatMetrix, with our most recent score being the highest in the industry. We believe that providing high-quality customer service is an important element in minimizing subscriber disconnection, or churn, and attracting new subscribers.
Valuable Orbital Slots and Satellite-Based Technology.
We believe our regulatory authorization to use desirable orbital slots and broadcast spectrum helps sustain our position as one of the leading companies in the MVPD industry. Our satellite-based service provides us with many advantages over ground-based cable television services. We have the ability to distribute hundreds of channels to millions of recipients nationwide with minimal incremental infrastructure cost per additional subscriber. In addition, we have comprehensive coverage to areas with low population density in the United States and the ability to quickly introduce new services to a large number of subscribers.
We hold licenses in three orbital slots (99 west longitude, or WL, 101 WL, and 103 WL) in the Ka-Band spectrum. The satellites that have been launched into these orbital slots have substantially increased our channel capacity, allowing us to provide one of the most extensive HD channel offerings currently available across the United States. In addition, we hold licenses to broadcast our services from 46 of 96 Ku-Band DBS frequencies spread over three orbital slots (101 WL, 110 WL and 119 WL). Finally, we hold licenses to broadcast our services from 36 Reverse Band frequencies in two orbital slots (99 WL and 103 WL). We expect to put these frequencies into service in 2015 providing us significant additional capacity for new services and/or to expand or backup existing services. The ability to maintain FCC licenses and other regulatory approvals, and to minimize potential interference from potential additional DBS "tweener" slots is critical to our business. See "Government Regulation-FCC Regulation Under the Communications Act and Related Acts" and "Risk Factors." 5 Table of Contents DIRECTV  Strong Balance Sheet.
We believe our cash position and borrowing capacity combined with our current and expected future cash generation capability provides us with significant financial flexibility to improve stockholder value. We have repurchased approximately $31billion of our common stock over the last nine years, retiring approximately 66% of our shares as of December31, 2014, although our repurchase program has been suspended due to the pending transaction with AT&T.
Business Strategy Our vision is to provide customers with the best video experience in the United States both inside and outside of the home by offering subscribers unique, differentiated and compelling programming through leadership in content, technology and customer service. Due to the rising cost of programming as well as higher costs to acquire new subscribers in an increasingly mature and competitive industry, it is even more important to distinguish and elevate the DIRECTV experience with a focus on delighting our new and existing customers. To fulfill our goals in a profitable and sustainable way we developed a strategy to (1)transform the customer service experience, (2)advance the entertainment experience both inside and outside of the home and (3)strike a balance between growth and profitability.
Transform the Customer Service Experience.
The greatest opportunity we have to create value is to delight and earn the enthusiastic loyalty of our approximately 20.4million subscribers in the United States. We have implemented systems to measure and monitor our customer feedback regularly to continuously improve customer satisfaction. One way we do so is by measuring our Net Promoter Score, or NPS, which is a standard metric that surveys our customers' willingness to recommend DIRECTV to a friend or family member by sorting them into promoters, neutrals and detractors. Our goal is to make the customer experience a hallmark of the DIRECTV brand, drive higher loyalty levels and meaningfully differentiate DIRECTV from competitors. Our strategy involves (1)improving service quality and workforce engagement, (2)increasing our investment in existing customers, (3)simplifying customer facing policies and processes and (4)strengthening our bundled offers and capabilities.
Improving Service Quality and Workforce Engagement.
We believe it is strategically important to have a system for identifying and implementing improvements in products, policies and procedures. At our cross-functional learning lab we have a dedicated team focused on generating and testing ideas that could create more satisfaction for our customers through all service interactions including the initial sale and installation as well as any subsequent communications, service or upgrade transactions. We are testing and refining solutions that heighten the focus on resolving problems for customers the first time they contact us, minimizing hand-offs, valuing the customer's time and providing in-home education on our products and services. In addition, we're improving customer interactions through behavioral-based customer experience training as well as implementing a lean-based continuous improvement system across our frontline sales, customer care and field services teams. In 2015, we will continue to empower our front line employees to identify new ways to improve customers' satisfaction while simultaneously improving productivity by reducing service calls.
Increase Our Investment in Existing Customers.
Investing in our valuable customers is strategically important to improve loyalty and reduce customer churn. Therefore, in the middle of 2013 we launched a transparent upgrade program which provides additional value to enrolled customers, including the ability to receive upgrades to our latest product features and functionality every two years. We also believe it is critical to re-affirm our appreciation for our most tenured loyalists. For example, in 2014 we instituted a customer-friendly, invite-based referral program, that in addition to making it much easier to refer a friend, also provided an easy way for existing customers to track all of their referrals and related credits. This new program reduced follow on calls from referring customers by 75%. In addition, transitioning our investment away from providing new customers with the best deals to thoughtful economic investments in our existing subscriber base is expected to yield even higher levels of customer satisfaction and financial returns.
6 Table of Contents DIRECTV  Simplify Customer Facing Policies and Processes.
By simplifying key customer journeys (e.g.,onboarding, problem resolution, movers), we not only improve the customer experience but also improve productivity by reducing customer contact rates and simultaneously eliminating complexity for our frontline workforce. For example, in 2014, we launched a simplified bill that was easier to understand and better communicated the amount due, the payment due date as well as the reason for any changes to the bill. This resulted in a 15% reduction in phone calls from existing customers who transitioned to this new bill. We plan to further simplify key customer interactions and expand self-service capabilities to continue to make it easier and more intuitive for customers to manage their accounts and better understand and enjoy features of the DIRECTV service. We expect these solutions to increase customer satisfaction, as well as reduce customer call volumes to our call centers.
Strengthen Our Bundled Offers and Capabilities.
Bundled video, telephone and broadband services continue to grow in popularity as consumers look for ways to reduce costs in a challenging economy. To better serve the segment of consumers who are attracted to the convenience and value of bundle offerings, we have agreements in place with most of the major telco companies nationwide to offer digital subscriber line, or DSL, and fiber bundles which include the DIRECTV service. We believe it is important that we continue to work closely with broadband providers in 2015 to further streamline the bundle process, offer broadband services with higher speeds and improve joint marketing efforts so that a greater percentage of our customers can enjoy the benefits of a bundle. For example in 2014, we streamlined the sales process and focused on improving system performance for customers who signed up for bundled service. These and other improvements drove a 28-point improvement in our bundled sales NPS scores during the year.
Advance the Entertainment Experience Both Inside and Outside of the Home.
We believe it is critical that we continue to extend our brand leadership as the premium pay-TV provider in the marketplace by providing the best and most compelling video experience both inside and outside of the home. Therefore, we've created a flexible platform that leverages our hybrid satellite and cloud infrastructure with a broadband connection. We believe that our hybrid solution is the most efficient way to transport content to subscribers when and where they want it; through this integrated approach, we're able to intelligently optimize the use of storage in the home as well as in the cloud, while also providing a seamless service for consumers across screens and locations. To fulfill our goals, we have developed a robust product roadmap that leverages this infrastructure to advance the entertainment experience by (1)connecting customer HD-DVRs to the Internet, (2)expanding DIRECTV Everywhere capabilities and content offerings and (3)delivering a seamless best-in-class user interface that unifies search and discovery across multiple screens.
Connect Customer HD-DVRs to the Internet.
Connecting our customers' receivers to broadband service is strategically important because it greatly enhances the video experience by complementing our high quality Live TV and DVR offerings and also increases our revenues and profits. For example, a connected receiver provides our customers with the ability to (1)access over 12,000 additional movies and TV shows available on the set-top boxvia our library of free and paid on-demand contentincluding over 100 on-demand networks which we expect will increase to about 140 in 2015, (2)restart shows already in progress and "rewind" and watch shows that customers may have missed in the last 72hours, (3)watch non-traditional video including the ability to search and watch web-based videos on YouTube and (4)engage interactive "TV Apps" that provide real-time information such as sports scores, standings and statistics; NFL Fantasy League integration; local traffic or weather reports; as well as a connection that enables customers to use the Pandora audio service and interact with friends on their Twitter or Facebook account via their television or portable devices. Approximately half of our HD-DVR customers currently have their set-top box connected to the Internet. In the future we expect to introduce a standard HD box (non-DVR) 7 Table of Contents DIRECTV which can connect to the Internet so that many of the above features are available to these customers without DVR functionality.
Expand DIRECTV Everywhere capabilities.
We believe that providing an ubiquitous content experience across devices and locations is strategically important because it augments our customers' video experience while also meeting their desire to view quality content when and where they want it most. In addition to the live and on demand content available on the set-top box discussed above, DIRECTV Everywhere offerings include in-home streaming of over 100 live channels, which we expect to increase to approximately 150 by the end of 2015, and streaming of approximately 50 live channels outside of the home, which we expect to increase to approximately 135 by year end 2015. DIRECTV Everywhere also offers access to over 21,000 VOD movie and television programs via the Internet and access to over 100 networks' content online by authenticating they get pay TV service from DIRECTV. These offerings include HBO GO, MAX GO, Showtime Anytime, Starz Play and Encore Play as well as many others. We expect the number of authenticated networks accessible by DIRECTV customers to increase to approximately 150 by year end 2015. GenieGo device enables subscribers with an HD-DVR and broadband connection to download and watch recorded shows on up to five different devices as well as remotely stream recorded content to an Internet enabled device over any Wi-Fi network. And, our first Over The Top, or OTT, serviceYaveo , a Spanish language service that includes 3 live channels as well as approximately 3,000hours of on-demand content, expands our potential customer base as it is delivered over the Internet with no need for the customer to install a dish antenna or set-top box. Our NFL SUNDAY TICKET package in an OTT format, including via devices such as the XBox One and the PlayStation, gives customers who cannot receive DIRECTV service, another way to access our most popular sports package. Finally, DIRECTV Everywhere capabilities, include a global viewing history, which allows our customers to start watching a show on one device, and pick it up on another device, right where they left off, including on the television. In the future, we plan to leverage our DIRECTV Everywhere platform to offer new viewing experiences, such additional OTT services and Subscription Video On Demand, or SVOD, service offerings.
Deliver a Seamless Best-in-Class User Interface that Unifies Search and Discovery Across Multiple Screens.
Providing our customers with a consistent user experience as they access their video content on any device inside or outside the home is strategically important to drive deeper customer engagement and satisfaction. Therefore over the last two years, we have (1)extended our HD User Interface, or UI, beyond the big screen to integrate the same crisp, easy-to-read HD UI format to other devices, moving away from a text based grid-guide experience to a show or movie "image" / "poster art" based experience, (2)launched a "Genie Recommends" menu page on the set-top box to help our customers discover content similar to what they already watch and enjoy, an experience we are expanding to include on other mobile devices and computers, (3)introduced episode and season information for television shows, so our customers know what seasons and episodes are available live, on demand or pre-recorded on their DVR, (4)developed an industry leading Smart Search capability across applications for the set-top box, mobile devices and tablets and (5)enabled the use of tablets and smartphones as a remote control for the big screen, enabled contextual search and allowed customers to search for content or change channels by using voice commands through their smart phone. We are also investing in core technologies that will leverage universal profile sub-accounts within a household to provide more intuitive recommendations as well as enhance personalization across devices for each user in the home. In addition, we will leverage the cloud with our user interface to improve our insight into consumer behavior, support faster searches across a growing on-demand content library and increase our ability to further enhance our product and services offerings.
8 Table of Contents DIRECTV  Strike a Balance Between Growth and Profitability.
Maintaining a strong financial foundation is vital to achieving our plans for profitable growth. To fulfill our strategic objectives, we believe we must balance top line sales and bottom line profitability. Our strategy involves (1)growing revenue streams, (2)optimizing of acquisition and retention spending and (3)enhancing productivity and cost containment.
Grow Revenue Streams.
Due to the rising cost of programming in the maturing pay television marketplace, driving top line sales has become increasingly critical to maintaining strong profit margins. In order to achieve this objective we must grow revenues through (1)responsible pricing and (2)maximizing ancillary and non-residential revenue opportunities.
Responsible Pricing.
We believe our ability to generate the industry's highest average revenue per unit, or ARPU, demonstrates the value our best-in-classvideo experience delivers to our customers. It is imperative that we maintain appropriate price increases on our differentiated service offerings, while simultaneously expanding the value proposition by advancing the customer service and entertainment experiences. It is also critical that we remain disciplined in the management of subscriber credits and promotions. In the future, we expect to further refine our pricing and packaging strategy to better fit the needs of our more value conscious consumers. For example, in 2014 we reintroduced a lower cost programming Select package. We also reduced the price on our advanced receiver fee, eliminating a 24-month $10 credit customers were previously provided and reducing the number of price changes our customers experience in the first two years of service. In addition, we began charging a lease fee on the first set-top boxa customer leases. We believe these actions will reduce customer credits, improve the customer experience and increase profitability over the coming years.
Maximize Ancillary and Non-Residential Revenues.
We believe we have an opportunity to drive top-line growth through ancillary and non-residential revenue opportunities, including DIRECTV CINEMA, addressable and local advertising, the commercial market, home security, subscription video on demand, and an OTT platform. In 2014, we continued generating incremental VOD revenues by "pushing" top-rated movies, including many available on the same day of the DVD release, onto customers DVRs for instant viewing, by expanding the video library of our enhanced movie service called DIRECTV CINEMA to over 12,000 titles and by connecting an additional 1million customers to the Internet so that they could access this larger library. We are also looking to significantly increase our advertising revenues over the coming years through addressable advertising which is a new technology that provides us the capability to download ads onto individual DVRs enabling advertisers to target individual customer homes within a local region as well as those homes that meet specific criteria that would be considered optimal for placement of an advertising campaign spot. In addition, we believe commercial establishments represent another incremental revenue opportunity for DIRECTV. For example, although historically we have competed effectively in the higher-end hotel market, we have recently developed a new lower cost solution that will enable us to mass distribute HD channels to hundreds of hotel rooms as well as our own DIRECTV Residential Experience technology that is compatible with the loop through wiring that exists in approximately 60% of the hotels in the nation. These actions along with strategic partnerships we currently have in place should present us with further opportunities for growth. In addition, we expect to introduce new features, applications and package enhancements that will provide an integrated residential television experience for our hotel customers to offer to their patrons. We also currently have low market share in the private businesses and smaller bars and restaurants segments and we intend to grow our share in these markets by developing an integrated bundling solution, as well as from improved management, targeting, customer service, billing, pricing and packaging. In addition, based on low market penetration rates, we believe 9 Table of Contents DIRECTV home security represents another growth opportunity for DIRECTV. By leveraging our brand, national footprint, sales and marketing expertise we expect to significantly increase our home security revenues over the coming years. In the future, we also expect to leverage our hybrid satellite and cloud infrastructure to extend the DIRECTV viewing experience with new services, such as subscription VOD, or SVOD, Electronic Sell Through, or EST, and OTT product offers. These compelling viewing experiences are expected to present us with further opportunities for growth.
Optimize Acquisition and Retention Spending.
Although we continue to invest in new subscribers with a disciplined focus on driving value through quality, attaining strong financial returns on new subscribers has been increasingly difficult in this maturing industry where programmers are seeking even higher rates for their content. Therefore, we have rebalanced our investments between new customers and our upgrade offers. Over the last few years, we have increased our credit requirements for new customers, reducing our acquisition costs and repurposed those savings to upgrade offers to tenured and high-value existing subscribers, which yield stronger returns. Our revised upgrade policy is expected to improve customer satisfaction, keep churn at what we believe are industry low levels and increase profitability by driving greater penetration of advanced services such as DIRECTV Genie and the Connected Home.
Enhance Productivity and Manage Costs.
Improving our productivity is a critical element to achieve our goal to maintain strong margins particularly given rising programming costs and the competitive nature of our industry. In particular, we plan to focus our efforts on (1)effectively managing our programming costs and (2)capturing enterprise-wide productivity improvements.
Effectively Manage Programming Cost Growth.
Programming costs are DIRECTV's largest expense and we must manage these costs as effectively as possible particularly considering that we expect programming costs to grow at a faster rate than ARPU primarily due to higher retransmission fees for the carriage of local channels and higher sports programming costs. In addition, due to competitive pressures, there is a risk that we will be unable to pass such increases through to our subscribers. Therefore, we must minimize these cost increases by leveraging our size, growth and attractive subscriber demographics to attain competitive terms and conditions. We must also work to closely align a channel's value with the costs we pay and obtain rights for value-added video services, such as mobile and streaming rights, in our negotiations. Another way we expect to reduce the rate of cost growth is by packaging channels to better align the programming that our customers want to watch with what they are willing to pay for and by securing greater flexibility regarding tiering and packaging of content and/or channels. In addition, we may discontinue carrying less popular channels if we are unable to negotiate appropriate pricing and other terms and conditions.
Capture Enterprise-Wide Productivity Improvements.
Our objective is to deliver the best video experience at the lowest possible cost. Our goal is to manage our costs and make strategic investments that will deliver future benefits, preserve a sustainable cost structure and drive efficiency. In particular, we are looking to capture productivity improvements which will not only reduce costs, but also improve call center performance, field operations (such as installations and repairs), retention and customer satisfaction. We will strive to get it "right the first time" especially during the critical first 90days of a customer's life cycle with improved work order accuracy and installation. Our strategy also includes improving the reliability of our set-top receivers and increasing the effectiveness of our customers' self-care options to reduce call volumes and unnecessary truck rolls. Our recent efforts in these areas have reduced the number of service visits by approximately 300,000 per year and annual phone calls to our care centers by over 12million. We are also utilizing technology to optimize our technicians' installation and service routes to help our front-line be more effective and efficient. In addition, we are 10 Table of Contents DIRECTV improving our back office systems, to allow our technicians more flexibility in responding to customer needs, changes and issues while the technician is on-site in the customer's home. We are also investing in technology called Active Decisioning, which increases the information available to our agents and helps them more effectively and quickly manage our customers' needs.
Infrastructure Satellites.
We currently have a fleet of twelve geosynchronous satellites, including eleven owned satellites and one leased satellite. We have six Ku-Band satellites at the following orbital locations: 101 WL (three), 110 WL (one), 119 WL (one), 95 WL (one-leased). We also have six Ka-Band satellites at our 99 WL (three) and 103 WL (three) orbital locations.
We have contracted for the construction and launch of one new satellite, D15, which we expect to launch in the first half of 2015. D15 is expected to provide additional HD, replacement and backup capacity.
Satellite Risk Management.
We may purchase in-orbit and launch insurance to mitigate the potential financial impact of in-orbit and satellite launch failures unless the premium costs are considered to be uneconomical relative to the risk of satellite failure. The insurance generally covers a portion of the unamortized book value of covered satellites. We do not insure against lost revenues in the event of a total or partial loss of the capacity of a satellite. We generally rely on in-orbit spare satellites and excess transponder capacity at key orbital slots to mitigate the impact a satellite failure could have on our ability to provide service. However, programming continuity cannot be assured in all instances or in the event of multiple satellite losses. Launch insurance typically covers the time frame from ignition of the launch vehicle through separation of the satellite from the launch vehicle. In the past, we have launched satellites without insurance. As of December31, 2014, the net book value of DIRECTV U.S.' in-orbit satellites was $1,000million, all of which was uninsured.
Digital Broadcast Centers.
To gather programming content, ensure its digital quality, and transmit content to our satellites, we have two digital broadcast centers, located in Castle Rock, Colorado and Los Angeles, California and six uplink facilities. These broadcast centers and uplink facilities provide our national and local standard-definition and HD programming to our customers. We receive programming at the broadcast centers and uplink facilities from content providers via satellite, our back haul fiber optic network, special tape or secured Internet delivery. After receipt, most programming is then digitized, encoded and transmitted to our satellites and selectively staged with multiple content delivery networks for Internet delivery. We designed each broadcast center and uplink facility, our back haul fiber optic network, and content delivery infrastructure with redundant systems to minimize service interruptions; however, programming continuity cannot be assured in all instances or in the event of a catastrophic event at either broadcast center.
Installation Network.
The DIRECTV Home Service Provider, or HSP, network performs customer installation, upgrade, and service call work for us. We now directly employ over 4,500 technicians. We also utilize an additional 10,000 technicians from four major outsourced companies who have assigned territories and a number of smaller contractors around the United States. The combined workforce completed approximately 90% of all in-home visits in 2014. We set quality standards for all installation, upgrade, and service work, perform quality control procedures against those standards, manage network inventory levels, and monitor overall network performance for nearly all of the installation and service network.
Customer Service Centers.
As of December31, 2014, we utilized 52 customer service centers employing almost 19,000 customer service representatives. Most of these customer service centers are operated by Convergys Customer Management Group,Inc., Alorica,Inc., Sitel Operating Corporation, N.E.W. Customer Service Companies,Inc., VXI Global Solutions,Inc. and Teleperformance. We currently own and operate six customer service centers located in: Boise, Idaho; Tulsa, Oklahoma; Huntsville, Alabama; Missoula, Montana; Huntington, West Virginia; and Denver, Colorado that employ approximately 4,100 customer service representatives. Potential 11 Table of Contents DIRECTV and existing subscribers can call a single telephone number24hours a day, seven days a week, to request assistance for hardware, programming, installation, technical and other support. We continue to increase the functionality of telephone-based and web-based self-care features in order to better manage customer service costs and improve service levels.
Competition We face substantial competition in the MVPD industry and from emerging digital media distribution providers. Our competition includes companies that offer video, audio, interactive programming, telephony, data and other entertainment services, such as cable television, other DTH companies, telcos, wireless companies and companies that are developing new technologies, including online video distributors. Many of our competitors have access to substantially greater financial and marketing resources. We believe our brand, the quality and variety of video, audio and interactive programming, quality of picture, access to service, availability of HD and DVR services, customer service and price are the key elements for attaining and retaining subscribers. Our approximately 20.4million subscribers represent approximately 20% of MVPD subscribers at December31, 2014.
Cable Television.
We encounter substantial competition in the MVPD industry from cable television companies. According to the National Cable& Telecommunications Association, 131.2million U.S. housing units are passed by cable, representing 99% of total U.S. homes. Most cable television operators have a large, established customer base, and some have significant investments in companies that provide programming content. Approximately 100million households subscribe to an MVPD service and approximately 53% of MVPD subscribers receive their programming from a cable operator. In addition, most cable providers have completed network upgrades that allow for enhanced service offerings such as digital cable, HD channels, broadband Internet access, telephony services and home security. Cable companies bundle these services, offering discounts and providing one bill to the consumer. Consumers increasingly want integrated bundles of video and broadband, which we cannot provide on our own. We do offer "synthetic" bundles through commercial relationships with various providers in which we offer video and broadband is provided by our another company. It is challenging for DIRECTV to meet this consumer need through these synthetic bundles, as these are intrinsically less advantageous than a true bundle and lack the level of discounted pricing and single bill and truck roll that consumers prefer.
Telephone Companies.
Several telcos have upgraded a significant portion of their infrastructure by replacing their older, copper wire telephone lines with high-speed fiber optic lines. These fiber lines provide the telcos with significantly greater capacity enabling them to offer new and enhanced services, such as broadband Internet access at much greater speeds and digital-quality video. For example, Verizon announced that at the end of 2014, it had the capability to serve approximately 18.6million homes. In addition, as of year-end 2014, AT&T had deployed fiber optic lines with the capability to serve approximately 30million homes. In 2009, CenturyLink introduced an Internet Protocol Television, or IPTV, service, which has since been rebranded as PRISM. As of year-end 2014, Verizon had approximately 5.6million video subscribers, AT&T had approximately 5.3million video subscribers, and PRISM had approximately 229,000 video subscribers, collectively representing approximately 13% of MVPD subscribers. Similar to the cable companies, the telcos offer their customers a bundle of multiple services at a discount on one bill.
Other Direct Broadcast Satellite and Direct-To-Home Satellite System Operators.
We also compete with DISH Network Corporation, or DISH, which had approximately 14million subscribers as of September30, 2014, representing approximately 14% of MVPD subscribers. On April26, 2011, DISH Network acquired certain assets of Blockbuster. Currently, DISH uses the Blockbuster On Demand service to offer video content through streaming services via the Internet. On September27, 2012, DISH launched a high-speed satellite Internet service called dishNET. In addition to marketing and selling dishNET services on a stand-alone basis, they bundle dishNET services with their DISH branded pay-TV service to 12 Table of Contents DIRECTV offer customers a single bill, payment and customer service option, which includes a bundle discount. DISH is currently pursuing wireless opportunities and has announced plans on a trial basis to jointly develop and deploy a fixed wireless broadband service in certain markets with both Telos and Sprint. Other domestic and foreign satellite operators also have proposed to offer DTH satellite service to U.S. customers using U.S.-licensed satellite frequencies or foreign-licensed frequencies that have the ability of covering the United States.
Video via the Internet.
With the large increase in the number of consumers with broadband service, a significant amount of video content has become available on the Internet for users to download and view on their personal computers, televisions and other devices. For example, Apple offers thousands of television shows and movies for rental, some in high-definition, on the online iTunes Store and with their iCloud service. All of a user's content could be shared wirelessly across Apple devices. In addition, Hulu is an online video distributor which provides free movies and TV shows from content providers including FOX, NBC Universal, ABC, Lionsgate, MGM, Univision, National Geographic, Paramount, A&E Television Networks, Sony Pictures and Warner Bros. This content can be accessed on demand through its website and those of its partners: AOL, IMDb, MSN, Yahoo! and TV Guide. Hulu also provides a monthly streaming subscription service to more than 6million paying Hulu Plus subscribers that offers current and past season shows from ABC, Comedy Central, The CW, FOX, NBC, MTV and Univision. In addition, Netflix and Amazon through Amazon Prime, offer SVOD services for a flat monthly fee. For example, Netflix has a library of thousands of movies and TV shows available for streaming to its over 57million subscribers across 50 countries, and now offers some 4K content. Additionally, several companies, such as Vudu, Google through Google Play and Amazon through Amazon Instant Video sell or rent movies or other shows via Internet download or streaming media. There are also several similar initiatives by companies such as Verizon, Microsoft and Sony to make it easier to view Internet-based video on television and personal computer screens. Many television models, Blu-Ray Disc players and gaming consoles like Nintendo's Wii, Sony's PS4, and Microsoft's Xbox One can be directly connected to the Internet and have the capacity to stream video to a television. Several television programmers have launched or announced launch plans for subscription broadband video products. CBS All Access launched in October 2014 and offers video on demand and live streaming of current programming and thousands of episodes of library content. In October 2014, HBO announced plans to launch a stand-alone streaming, service in 2015 that will not require an MVPD subscription. Other channels are expected to follow CBS and HBO; Services such as these undermine our and other MVPD's status as the exclusive location for current content. In January 2015, DISH announced the imminent launch of Sling TV, a live OTT Personal Streaming Service delivered over the Internet that includes streaming access to 12 live TV channels, video on demand and videos from Maker Studios. Sling TV is a no contract offering with a minimum price of $20 that includes ESPN and could attract subscribers as consumers look for both lower cost and no commitment options. Sling TV also offers several "tiers" of programming for an additional fee, such as kids programming and sports, and we expect they will add more content in the future.
Mobile Video.
Many companies are also offering mobile video applications due to consumers' increasing desire to view content outside of the home. For example, AT&T offers AT&T Mobile TV which provides users the ability to watch full-length TV shows from ABC, CBS, Disney, ESPN, Fox, MTV and other programmers on their cell phones. Verizon offers FiOS On Demand, which provides FiOS customers access to download and stream OnDemand and rented VOD titles for viewing inside and outside of the home. In addition, Verizon Wireless offers the NFL Mobile from Verizon App which offers live streaming of national Thursday, Sunday and Monday night games as well as Sunday afternoon games in local markets. Comcast offers the XFINITY TV Go Application which also allows customers to download and stream OnDemand video content to laptops, tablets and mobile devices and the XFINITY TV application for X1 customers which allows subscribers to stream shows from their DVR to tablets, smartphones and computers and to download them for offline viewing. All major cable and satellite 13 Table of Contents DIRECTV distributors are also focused on distributing their content to their customers' mobile devices in and out of home. For example, DISH, Time Warner Cable, Cablevision and Comcast allow streaming of live linear TV outside the home via mobile and tablet applications. Other mobile applications and services are also becoming available.
Small and Rural Telephone Companies and Google Fiber.
Other telephone companies are also finding ways to deliver video programming services over their wireline facilities or in a bundle with other MVPD providers. For example, DISH Network has agreements with Embarq, Windstream, TDS, Frontier, and ViaSat to bundle their individual DSL or satellite broadband (in the case of ViaSat), and telephony services with DISH Network's video service. Google has also deployed its own fiber network in the Kansas City metro area, Provo, Utah as well as Austin, Texas and offers the highest broadband speeds in the country, bundled with multichannel video service.
Local Broadcasters.
Most areas of the United States can receive traditional terrestrial television broadcasts of numerous broadcast channels, with more stations available in larger markets. These include full-power broadcasters transmitting digital signals as well as low-power broadcasters transmitting in analog. Broadcasters provide local, network and syndicated programming. Viewers can receive this programming free of charge using off-air antennas, although broadcast signals typically cannot reach the entire local market to which the broadcaster is assigned. Full-power broadcasters transmitting in digital can offer both programming in high-definition and multiple programming services per channel.
DIRECTV LATIN AMERICA DIRECTV Latin America is a leading provider of digital television services throughout Latin America. DIRECTV Latin America provides a wide selection of local and international digital-quality video entertainment and audio programming under the DIRECTV and SKY brands to approximately 6.8million subscribers in PanAmericana and approximately 5.6million subscribers in Brazil. Including Sky Mexico, DIRECTV and SKY provide service to over 19million subscribers throughout the region.
We own 100% of PanAmericana, which provides services in Argentina, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Peru, Puerto Rico, Venezuela and certain other countries in the region, 93% of Sky Brasil, which operates in Brazil, and 41% of Sky Mexico, which operates in Mexico, the Dominican Republic and certain countries in Central America. Globo Comunicaes e ParticipaesS.A., or Globo, owns the other 7% of Sky Brasil and Grupo Televisa,S.A., or Televisa, owns the other 59% of Sky Mexico. The results of PanAmericana and Sky Brasil are consolidated in our results, and we account for our interest in Sky Mexico under the equity method of accounting.
We believe we provide one of the most extensive collections of programming available in the Latin America pay television market, including HD sports video content and the most innovative interactive technology across the region. In addition, we have the unique ability to sell superior offerings of our differentiated products and services on a continent-wide basis with an operational cost structure that we believe to be lower than that of our competition. As of December31, 2014, we provided service to 26% of pay television households in PanAmericana, 30% of pay television households in Brazil and 39% of pay television households in Mexico.
To subscribe to the DIRECTV or SKY service, customers sign up for our video service directly through us or our regional retailers, or independent satellite television retailers or dealers. We tailor our offers and products to profitably provide our service to various customer segments across the region that have the need and desire for our brand and service. We offer post-paid products and services to customers who meet our standard requirements. For these customers, dealers or one of our home service providers install the receiving equipment. In addition, we offer pre-paid service for customers that desire payment and commitment flexibility. These customers may purchase a standard-definition receiver and antenna and pre-pay their DIRECTV service through one or more means, such as the purchase of a rechargeable card that they can acquire at a retailer or local kiosk. The video service will automatically disconnect once the balance of the customer's pre-payment expires.
14 Table of Contents DIRECTV In addition to traditional pay-television services, in Latin America we continue to focus on selectively pursuing opportunities to acquire spectrum and, where we have acquired spectrum, to build out a technologically robust and profitable fixed wireless broadband service in areas where we have an existing subscriber base and there are weak competitive wireline offerings or access to broadband is limited. We currently have spectrum holdings that cover approximately 50million households across Argentina, Brazil, Colombia, Venezuela and Peru.
Key Strengths  Large Subscriber Base and Pan-Regional Scale of Service.
On a regional basis, we are a leading provider of pay television services in Latin America. We believe that our large subscriber base and scale provides us with the opportunity to obtain programming on favorable terms and secure unique content and features. We also believe that our relationship with DIRECTV U.S. contributes to achieving economies of scale in areas such as equipment and technology purchasing, customer service, broadcast operations, and general and administrative costs.
Leading Brands.
DIRECTV and SKY brands in Latin America are positioned as the leader in digital video entertainment, offering the best quality content, technology and customer service available. We believe the strength of our brands is an important factor in our ability to attract and retain subscribers, as well as sell additional services such as our new broadband offering in markets such as Brazil, Columbia and Argentina. Our recognized brand name also enhances our ability to secure strategic alliances with programmers and distributors.
Relationship with DIRECTV U.S.
We believe that our ability to leverage the advanced technologies and best practices developed and followed by DIRECTV U.S. enables us to take advantage of its economies of scale, intellectual property and financial flexibility. Our platforms have set-top receiver specifications and middleware technologies that are aligned with DIRECTV U.S., which allows for the launch of new technologies, innovative features and services in advance of our competitors in the region and at a lower cost. For example, the new Genie HD-DVR, which was first offered in the U.S. in mid-2013, recently was launched by Sky Mexico and is expected to be launched in several other countries in the future.
High-Quality Digital Picture and Sound.
Our video and audio programming is 100% digitally delivered, providing subscribers with digital-quality video and audio, as well as interactive features and functionality. We believe this compares favorably with many cable providers in Latin America, which typically continue to broadcast to a large percentage of their subscribers in analog format.
Unique and Differentiated Content.
As a result of our greater scale, we believe we are able to offer unique and compelling content to subscribers. For example, during 2014 we delivered the most extensive coverage of the 2014 FIFA World Cup in PanAmericana by offering multiple live and simulcast feeds in HD and providing coverage of more than 800hours of original content. In addition, over 1.6million people downloaded our FIFA World Cup app, making Panamericana a worldwide leader in this respect. Also, we continue to provide the most extensive coverage of European football, including La Liga in Brazil and PanAmericana as well as the Barclays Premier League in PanAmericana and Mexico and DIRECTV Sports, our own sports channel.
Sales and Marketing.
We sell DIRECTV and SKY through a number of distribution channels, including direct sales, online, regional sales providers and local sales providers. We believe this variety of distribution alternatives coupled with segmented marketing programs, have enabled us to continue to grow our subscriber base by extending our leadership with advanced products as well as by continuing to penetrate the middle market segment with tailored package offerings.
Strong Customer Satisfaction.
Similar to prior years, we continue to attain top rankings in customer satisfaction studies for the pay television industry across the region. For example in 2014, the Brazilian equivalent to J.D. Power, Consumidor Moderno, awarded SKY "Best Service Company of the Year" for the 13thyear in a row. SKY won these accolades by both the popular vote and technical criteria. Also in 15 Table of Contents DIRECTV Brazil, in 2013 the magazine Datafolha awarded SKY the "Highest Brand Awareness in Pay-TV Services." For the fourth consecutive year, DIRECTV was recognized in Chile with the "Calidad del Servicio ProCalidad 2014" award in the pay-TV category. In Venezuela, DIRECTV was awarded the "Best Pay-TV Company" and DIRECTV Sports received the accolade for the "Best TV Channel in Pay-TV" by the renowned regional marketing magazine P&M. In addition, our regional call center operation in Colombia received three awards from Alianza Latinoamericana de Organizaciones para la Interaccion con los Clientes, or ALOIC, for "One of the Best Organizations Interacting with Clients," "Best Social Responsibility Administration" and "Best HR Administration." We believe that providing high-quality customer service is an important element in minimizing churn and attracting new subscribers. In addition, our ability to implement best practices in customer service from across the region, and from DIRECTV U.S., allows us to adapt quickly and efficiently to changes that we face.
Business Strategy Our vision is to provide customers across Latin America with the best video experience by leveraging DIRECTV Latin America's key strengths while continuing to distinguish our service from our competitors by offering subscribers unique, differentiated and compelling programming through leadership in content, technology, customer service and targeted marketing strategies. Our strategy involves (1)profitably expanding our technological and brand leadership position across all demographic segments, (2)enhancing productivity and effectively managing costs, (3)driving scale and improving margins in core PanAmericana countries and (4)proactively responding and adapting in countries with significant macroeconomic challenges.
Profitably Expand Leadership Position Across All Demographic Segments.
To achieve our goals, we believe we have to profitably expand our leadership position in several key areas including (1)higher end markets with a particular focus on DVR and HD excellence and (2)leveraging scale to profitably serve the middle market segment while expanding penetration.
Strengthen Our Position in HD.
We believe that continuing to expand our HD offerings along with our segmented HD product and services provides us with a significant competitive advantage across market segments that are expected to experience continued growth. As of December31, 2014, Sky Brasil offered its customers up to 67 HD channels and PanAmericana offered its customers on average 19 HD channels. In 2014, we experienced a nearly 30% increase in the number of total subscribers with HD service in Latin America, led by Brazil where nearly 40% of customers had HD equipment at the end of 2014. ISDLA-1, a new satellite supporting PanAmericana, is expected to go into operation in 2015 and will significantly increase capacity for new HD channels. Additional satellites (ISDLA-2 for PanAmericana and SKY-1 for SKY Brazil) are expected to launch in 2015 and 2016 and will also provide additional capacity for HD offerings as well as in-orbit redundancy.
Increase DVR Penetration.
We believe that consumers at the higher end of the market are looking for more features and functionality in their TV viewing, particularly in terms of place and time shifting. Leveraging the scale and product development roadmap at DIRECTV U.S., we are able to offer high-quality DVRs that are more functional and less costly than those of our competitors to distinguish our service. For example, we have introduced a Whole Home DVR service which allows consumers to view and control content from one DVR to other rooms in the house with the appropriate equipment. We also have plans to extend our building block set top receiver architecture for the more value conscious consumer to retrieve content that was broadcast at a previous time. As of December31, 2014, approximately 34% of our subscribers had advanced products.
Profitably Increase Penetration in Middle Market Segment.
Based on lower pay television penetration rates (relative to the US and other more development markets) and favorable demographic trends in the region, we believe the growing middle market continues to represent a continued opportunity for growth. Our goal is to profitably provide our service to value-focused customers who have the need and desire for affordable access to our brands and service. Typically, these offers and products are 16 Table of Contents DIRECTV similar to our traditional options except they allow customers access to significantly fewer channels, mostly require a self-installation by the customer, and limit the number of set-top receivers customers may have in their homes. Our DIRECTV service in PanAmericana offers these products and services on a pre-paid basis to the mass market segment. In Brazil, we offer our SKY service to customers who meet our standard requirements on a pre-paid basis as well as on a traditional post-paid basis. Looking ahead at 2015 and beyond, we plan on continuing to serve the value-focused customers in Brazil and PanAmericana through targeted marketing and distribution strategies, as well as leveraging our relationship with DIRECTV U.S. to obtain lower cost set-top receivers.
Enhance Productivity and Manage Costs.
Improving productivity and identifying efficiencies are critical to our goal to maintain strong margins particularly given the rapid growth of our subscriber base and regional scale of our operations. In particular, we plan to focus our efforts on productivity initiatives aimed at improving overall customer service levels. For example, we expect to utilize technology to implement process improvements in our call centers and other areas, such as upgrading our billing systems and informational technology systems. In the last two years we have implemented new customer relationship management systems in PanAmericana and centralized our network management structure to ensure superior service levels across customer segments while simultaneously improving productivity. Also in PanAmericana in 2014, we expanded our call center troubleshooting capabilities, which resulted in an 8% reduction in technical phone calls per subscriber, as well as a nearly 30% reduction in the costs related to technical related customer service visits. Similarly in Brazil, we reduced technical assistance calls by 17% in 2014 and also completed the majority of the implementation of our new billing and customer relationship management system. We expect initiatives like these to enhance operations across the various countries and regions where we offer service under the DIRECTV and SKY brands.
Leverage Brand and Customer Base to Introduce Complementary Services.
To expand our leadership in particular markets we are pursuing growth opportunities that could increase our competitiveness in the chosen markets, optimize the profitability of our subscriber base, minimize churn and extend the value of our brand. Our current focus in following this strategy involves offering a fixed wireless broadband service.
Offer Fixed Wireless Broadband.
Based on low fixed Internet household penetration rates and generally weak wireline coverage across the region, we believe the market opportunity for broadband growth in Latin America is significant. We also anticipate that connecting customers to our broadband service is strategically important because we expect it will minimize churn and attract new pay-TV subscribers. Therefore, we are focused on selectively pursuing opportunities to acquire spectrum and expand a technologically robust and profitable fixed wireless broadband service in areas where our existing subscriber base has limited competitive wireline offerings to choose from or access to broadband is limited. We currently have spectrum holdings that cover approximately 50million households across Argentina, Brazil, Colombia, Venezuela and Peru. At the end of 2014, we had rolled out coverage to about 4.5M of these homes, mostly in Brazil, where, in the first year of service, we have added over 100,000 subscribers. We began rolling out service in Colombia during late 2014 and expect to begin service in Venezuela and Peru sometime in 2015. Our success-based deployment strategies include a fourth generation product offering with speeds of 2 to 4 Mbps, which is competitive for the marketplace, as well as using a combination of technologies to deploy broadband to clusters of apartment buildings. We believe fixed wireless service offers benefits to our core business through an increase in pay-TV sales, an improvement in customer satisfaction from bundled subscribers as well as lower monthly churn.
Proactively respond and adapt in countries with significant macroeconomic challenges.
Several Latin American countries in which we operate are dealing with unusually challenging macroeconomic conditions such as very high inflation, weakening currencies and restrictions on exchanging local currencies into dollars. These circumstances compel us to implement strategies to offset these negative external factors, which can influence the results of our business. For example, to manage extremely high inflation, we 17 Table of Contents DIRECTV attempt to increase prices in-line with those rates of inflation. This is not always possible as in some countries we sometimes have to get regulatory approvals to change prices. In addition, the timing of the price increases may not coincide with the timing of the underlying cost inflation of the business. We also must manage costs more aggressively in these countries to ensure we maintain our margins and relative profitability. Certain countries also restrict or limit our ability to repatriate profits back to the United States, as well as use local currency to pay for imported equipment such as new set-top boxes. In these instances, we limit our U.S. dollar investments in these countries to those assets, which have pan-regional benefits, such as satellites, broadcasting facilities or international soccer rights. In addition, we often co-locate regional functions such as call centers, broadcasting centers or information technology support in these countries in order to utilize these local currencies. In addition to other strategies, we also focus on maintaining market share, as we believe preserving our scale in relation to our competition provides us important benefits as described above.
Infrastructure Satellites.
We currently provide services in PanAmericana and Brazil from leased transponders on three geosynchronous satellites. Sky Mexico provides its services from leased transponders on a separate satellite. In addition, we lease a backup satellite that serves Sky Brasil and Sky Mexico.
We have contracted for the lease of one additional satellite for PanAmericana, ISDLA-2, which we expect to be launched in the fourth quarter of 2015. ISDLA-1, which launched in October 2014, has been placed into service and will become the primary satellite for PanAmericana with a substantial increase in channel capacity from the current satellite, and ISDLA-2 is expected to serve as an in-orbit spare for ISDLA-1.
We have contracted for the construction and launch of a new satellite for Sky Brasil, SKY-Brasil 1, which we expect to launch in the second quarter of 2016. Sky Mexico entered into contracts for the construction and launch of a new satellite for Sky Mexico, SKY-Mexico 1, which we expect to launch in the third quarter of 2015. This will be the first satellite owned by Sky Mexico. SKY-Brasil 1 and SKY-Mexico 1 are expected to provide additional channel and HD capacity for Sky Brasil and Sky Mexico, respectively.
Digital Broadcast Centers.
Our principal digital broadcast centers are located in the United States, Argentina, Brazil and Venezuela. We also have several smaller satellite uplink facilities in the region.
Customer Service Centers.
We typically have customer service centers in each of the countries where we operate. In addition, we operate two pan-regional centers located in Colombia that provide primary and backup customer service support to most of the PanAmericana region.
Competition The pay television and other emerging broadband, video and data markets in Latin America are highly competitive. In each of our markets, we compete primarily with other providers of pay television, which distribute their programming by cable, satellite, terrestrial microwave systems, traditional over-the-air broadcasting and increasingly, the Internet. In addition, in certain markets we face significant competition from illegal pay television operations. We compete primarily on the basis of programming selection, price, technology and service.
In most of the markets in which we operate, cable television is our principal competitor. Cable operators typically compete with us principally by offering bundles of video, broadband and telephony services. In most cases, they discount the value of their programming services in order to sell broadband and telephony services. In addition, the cable operators with which we compete are in various stages of upgrading their networks in order to provide digital and HD channels, broadband and telephony services. Most of them have a significant percentage of the customers who still receive analog services, which are offered at a lower cost than the cable operators' digital video services.
18 Table of Contents DIRECTV In addition to competition from cable services, we face significant competition from other providers of DTH services. In most markets there are two to three DTH providers in addition to us. Telefonica, the Spanish telephone company, provides DTH services in Chile, Colombia, Peru and Venezuela through its brand Movistar and in Brazil through its brand Vivo. In Brazil, Telefonica has also agreed to purchase Global Village Telecom, or GVT, which offers a hybrid DTH-IPTV. American Movil provides DTH service branded Claro TV in Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador and Peru. Oi, the second fixed line incumbent in Brazil (in addition to Telefonica), has provided DTH service since 2009. These competitors have significant resources and have proven their ability to grow their businesses rapidly. They typically focus on offering lower-cost, limited services packages, often in support of their telephony and broadband offerings, which can increase our churn and put pressure on our margins. Also, the existence of multiple DTH operators in a single market dilutes our ability to market our DTH service as an alternative to cable, traditionally our principal competition.
In a number of markets, existing wireline telephony operators have announced their intention to upgrade their infrastructure in order to provide new and enhanced services, including IPTV video programming. However, to date only a very small number of such upgrades and build outs have been actively pursued on other than a test basis.
ACQUISITIONS, STRATEGIC ALLIANCES AND DIVESTITURES We review our competitive position on an ongoing basis and, from time to time, consider various acquisitions, strategic alliances and divestitures, including potential wireless broadband investments or alliances, in order to continue to compete effectively, improve our financial results, grow our business and allocate our resources efficiently. We also consider periodically making equity investments in companies which we can jointly provide services to our subscribers. While the transaction with AT&T is pending, we are subject to certain restrictions on potential transactions of this type, unless approved by AT&T.
GOVERNMENT REGULATION We are subject to government regulation in the United States, primarily by the FCC and by other federal, state and local authorities. We are subject to similar regulatory agencies in Latin America. We are also subject to the rules and procedures of the International Telecommunication Union, or ITU, a specialized agency of the United Nations, which coordinates global telecommunications networks and services.
The following is a summary of relevant regulatory issues and is not intended to describe all present and proposed government regulation and legislation affecting our business.
FCC Regulation Under the Communications Act and Related Acts. The Communications Act and other related acts give the FCC broad authority to regulate the operations of DIRECTV U.S.
FCC regulations govern, among other issues:  the licensing of DBS and DTH satellites, earth stations and ancillary authorizations;  the assignment of frequencies and orbital slots, the relocation of satellites to different orbital locations, the extension of licenses for existing satellites, and the replacement of an existing satellite with a new satellite;  terms and conditions of assignments and authorizations, including required timetables for construction and operation of satellites; and  avoidance of interference by and to DBS/DTH operations with operations of other entities that make use of the radio spectrum.
All of our satellites and earth stations are licensed by the FCC. The FCC generally issues DTH space station licenses for a fifteen-year term and DBS space station and earth station licenses for a ten-year term, which is less than the useful life of a healthy direct broadcast satellite. Upon expiration of the initial license term, the FCC has 19 Table of Contents DIRECTV the option to extend a satellite operator's license, authorize operation for a period of time on special temporary authority, or decline to extend the license.
Currently, we have several applications pending before the FCC, including applications to launch and operate future satellites. In general, the FCC's approval of these applications is required for us to continue to expand our range of service offerings while increasing the robustness of our satellite fleet. We may not obtain these approvals in a timely fashion or at all.
As a DBS/DTH licensee and operator we are also subject to a variety of Communications Act requirements, FCC regulations and copyright laws that could materially affect our business. They include the following:  Local-into-Local Service and Limitation on Retransmission of Distant Broadcast Television Signals.
The Satellite Home Viewer Act, or SHVA, (which in this Annual Report includes its progeny legislation, the Satellite Home Viewer Improvement Act of 1999; the Satellite Home Viewer Extension and Reauthorization Act of 2004; the Satellite Television Extension and Localism Act of 2010; and the Satellite Television Extension and Localism Act Reauthorization of 2014) allows DIRECTV U.S. to retransmit the signals of local broadcast television stations in the stations' local markets without obtaining authorization from the holders of copyrights in the individual programs carried by those stations. Another portion of SHVA also permits satellite retransmission of distant network stations (e.g.,those that originate outside of a satellite subscriber's local television market) only to "unserved households." A subscriber qualifies as an "unserved household" if he or she cannot receive, over the air, a signal of sufficient intensity from a local station affiliated with the same network, or falls into a few other limited exceptions. SHVA also prohibits DIRECTV U.S. from signing up a new subscriber to distant signals if that subscriber lives in a local market where DIRECTV U.S. makes available the same-network local signal. The FCC has required DIRECTV U.S. to delete certain programming, including sports programming, from the signals of certain distant stations. While the FCC is now considering modifying or eliminating what it calls its "sports blackout" rules, we do not believe such action would materially change the rules governing our provision of distant signals. In addition, the FCC's continuing interpretation, implementation and enforcement of other provisions of SHVA and judicial decisions could hamper the ability of DIRECTV U.S. to retransmit local and distant network and superstation signals, reduce the number of our existing or future subscribers that can qualify to receive these signals, impose compliance costs on us, or subject us to fines, monetary damages or injunctions. The distant signal provisions are currently set to expire in 2019. Congress may decline to renew those provisions, which could severely restrict our ability to retransmit distant signals.
Must Carry Requirement.
SHVA imposes a must carry obligation on DIRECTV U.S. This requires satellite carriers that choose to take advantage of the statutory copyright license in a local market to carry upon request the signals of all qualifying television broadcast stations within that local market, subject to limited exceptions. The FCC has adopted further detailed rules covering our carriage of both commercial and non-commercial broadcast television stations. These rules generally require us to carry all of the local broadcast stations properly requesting carriage in markets in which we retransmit the signals of local broadcast stations. The projected number of markets in which we can deliver local broadcast programming will continue to be constrained because of the must carry requirement and may be reduced depending on the FCC's interpretation of its rules and judicial decisions. Moreover, SHVA now contains a "market modification" procedure that will allow stations to petition to modify their local markets. Depending on the FCC's implementation of this requirement, we may not be able to carry all stations in their local markets, as modified, which could subject us to penalties or other negative regulatory consequences.
Retransmission Consent.
For those local television broadcast stations that do not elect must carry, SHVA also requires DIRECTV U.S. to obtain consent prior to retransmitting their signals to viewers. Television broadcast stations may withhold this consent (subject to a requirement to negotiate in good faith), and other provisions of copyright and communications law prevent DIRECTV from providing duplicate out-of-market programming in many instances. Thus, where consent is withheld, DIRECTV U.S.
20 Table of Contents DIRECTV subscribers may lose access to popular programming. Furthermore, the rates we are charged for retransmitting local channels have been increasing significantly. The FCC is currently considering changes to its rules governing retransmission consent disputes that are designed to provide more guidance to the negotiating parties on good-faith negotiation requirements and to improve notice to consumers in advance of possible service disruptions, and Congress has directed the FCC to commence a rulemaking on this subject this year. Beyond that, we cannot predict the timing or outcome of this FCC proceeding.
Public Interest Requirement.
The FCC has imposed certain public interest obligations on DBS operators, including a requirement that such providers set aside four percent of channel capacity exclusively for noncommercial programming of an educational or informational nature, for which we must charge programmers below-market rates and may not impose additional charges on subscribers. FCC rules also require DIRECTV U.S. to comply with a number of political broadcasting requirements and limits on the commercialization of children's programming. We believe that DIRECTV U.S. is in compliance with all of these requirements, but some require our interpretations, which we believe are reasonable and consistent with industry practice. However, the FCC may not agree.
Emergency Alert System.
The Emergency Alert System, or EAS, requires participants to interrupt programming during nationally declared emergencies and to pass through emergency information. The FCC has adopted rules that require satellite carriers to comply with this requirement. It may also mandate that satellite carriers interrupt programming for local emergencies and weather events. Any such requirement would be very difficult to implement, would require costly changes to our DBS/DTH system, and, depending on how it is implemented, could inconvenience or confuse our viewers. The FCC is also considering whether to require that EAS alerts be provided in multiple languages or via text messages, which could also prove difficult and costly.
Spectrum Allocation and License Assignment Rules.
We depend upon the FCC's allocation of DBS/DTH frequencies and assignment of DBS/DTH licenses. DBS frequencies and available DBS orbital locations capable of supporting our business have become increasingly scarce. While we continue to explore new sources of DBS/DTH capacity, there can be no assurance that we will obtain further capacity.
In 2007, the FCC adopted new service and licensing rules for broadcasting satellite services in the 17.3-17.8 GHz and 24.75-25.25 GHz bands, or 17/24 GHz BSS. This spectrum, also known as the "reverse band" (in that transmissions from these satellites to consumers would occur in spectrum currently used for uplinking programming to traditional DBS satellites), could provide a new source of additional DTH capacity. DIRECTV currently holds authorizations for satellites in this band at two orbital locations, and recently launched its first satellite built under those authorizations. However, a foreign operator that may have international priority in some respects has recently brought into use a conflicting ITU network filing at one of the two orbital locations at which we are licensed. Depending upon the ultimate disposition of that filing and our ongoing efforts to coordinate spectrum use at the relevant orbital location, our use of one of these licenses may be limited or precluded entirely.
Rules Governing Co-Existence With Other Satellite and Terrestrial Services and Service Providers in the MVPD Industry.
The FCC has adopted rules to allow non-geostationary orbit fixed satellite services to operate on a co-primary basis in the same frequency band as the one used by direct broadcast satellite and Ku-Band-based fixed satellite services. In the same proceeding, the FCC concluded that multi-channel video and data distribution services, or MVDDS, can share spectrum with DBS operators on a non-interference basis, and adopted rules and a method for assigning licenses in that service. While the FCC has established service and technical rules to protect DBS operations from harmful interference, these rules may not be sufficient to prevent such interference, and such services may have a material adverse impact on our operations. In addition, one MVDDS operator has received a conditional waiver of the applicable rules so that it could operate its system in Albuquerque, New Mexico at substantially higher power levels, which may have a material adverse impact on our operations in that market.
21 Table of Contents DIRECTV In 2006, the FCC released a notice of proposed rulemaking regarding the possible operation of "tweener" or "short spaced" satellites that would operate in the same DBS uplink and downlink frequency bands as DIRECTV U.S., from orbital positions located in between those now assigned to the DBS service. Under rules that the FCC is considering, a provider could operate a satellite near an orbital location where we have already positioned one or more DIRECTV U.S. satellites without completing coordination of its operations and without demonstrating that such operations would not "affect" the DIRECTV service. We have opposed this proposal, and believe that tweener satellites as proposed by applicants would cause interference to current and planned operations and impose a significant constraint on the further growth of our DIRECTV U.S. service. We cannot predict what if any action the FCC may take or the effect of such a proceeding on our business.
The FCC has also adopted rules that require satellite operators to take certain measures to mitigate the dangers of collision and orbital debris. Among other things, these rules impose certain requirements for satellite design and end-of-life disposal maneuvers, which apply to eight of our in-orbit satellites and may in the future be applied to others. We believe that we are in compliance with all of these requirements, but the requirements could result in a slight reduction in the operational life of each new satellite.
Geographic Service Rules.
The FCC requires DBS and 17/24 GHz BSS licensees to comply with certain geographic service obligations intended to foster the provision of DTH service to subscribers residing in Alaska and Hawaii. We believe that we are in compliance with these rules. The FCC has not acted on petitions filed several years ago by the State of Hawaii and an Alaska satellite television dealer claiming a violation of those rules. We cannot be sure that the FCC will not require us to make potentially cumbersome and costly changes to our business.
FCC Conditions Imposed In Connection With the Liberty Media and News Corporation Transactions.
In approving Liberty Media's 2008 acquisition of News Corporation's equity investment in us, the FCC imposed a number of regulatory conditions on us, some of which affected our business. In granting authority for subsequent transactions in 2009 and 2010, the FCC conditioned its approval on continued compliance with those conditions. Accordingly, the FCC has imposed on us program carriage conditions intended to prevent discrimination against all forms of unaffiliated programming; and conditions intended to ensure non-discriminatory access to programming affiliated with DIRECTV.
Potential Regulation of Set-Top Receivers.
Cable operators are subject to a wide variety of regulation of their set-top receivers, including a prohibition on "integrated" security and non-security functions. The FCC has exempted DTH satellite operators from such rules, but has been urged to eliminate that exemption. Were it to do so, DIRECTV U.S. may be required to redesign its set-top receivers and, conceivably, replace existing receivers. The D.C. Circuit recently vacated FCC rules that limited cable and satellite operators' ability to encode programming to restrict copying and to use selectable output control, which could give DIRECTV U.S. additional flexibility. The FCC is also considering an alternate regime under which all MVPDs, including DIRECTV U.S, would be required to offer "All Vid interfaces" instead of their existing set-top receiver arrangements. Such interfaces would be designed according to government specifications to deliver the DIRECTV U.S. programming stream and related data for manipulation by third-party electronic equipment. Moreover, the latest SHVA amendments direct the FCC to formulate a "working group" to deliver a report on technology- and platform- neutral downloadable security solutions. DIRECTV U.S. believes that any additional requirements in this area would significantly hinder its ability to offer new and innovative services, and could complicate its customer service efforts.
Accessibility Requirements.
The FCC has adopted a series of rules to implement the Twenty-First Century Communications and Video Accessibility Act of 2010. The FCC has adopted numerous accessibility requirements, such as the pass-through or rendering of closed captioning and video description. It has also implemented, and continues to consider, additional requirements which could require the redesign of DIRECTV's set-top receivers or other equipment. For example, remote controls 22 Table of Contents DIRECTV must be able to access closed captioning through the equivalent of a "button, key, or icon." Moreover, DIRECTV U.S. will have to make available "navigation devices" such as set-top receivers that provide a list of specified functions in audibly accessible form to the blind and visually impaired. Compliance with such accessibility requirements may prove costly and difficult. In particular, FCC mandates regarding the design of DIRECTV U.S.' consumer equipment could hinder our ability to offer new and innovative services using such equipment.
CALM Act Compliance.
The FCC has adopted rules implementing the Commercial Advertisement Loudness Mitigation Act, or the CALM Act, that require television commercial advertisements to have the same average volume as the programs that they accompany. The FCC has set up a system under which consumers can file complaints regarding commercial volume, as well as "safe harbor" standards under which DIRECTV U.S. can demonstrate compliance with these rules. Recordkeeping and monitoring, however, may prove difficult and costly. Moreover, should DIRECTV U.S. fail to comply with these rules in certain instances, it may lose the ability to demonstrate compliance under the safe harbor provisions, which in turn would make demonstrating compliance still more difficult.
MDU Exclusivity.
The FCC has prohibited cable companies from maintaining certain exclusive relationships with multiple dwelling units (such as apartment buildings). While the FCC requested comment on whether DBS providers should be prohibited from having similar relationships with multiple dwelling units, it has yet to make a formal decision. If the cable exclusivity ban were to be extended to DBS providers, our ability to serve these types of buildings and communities would be adversely affected. We cannot predict the timing or outcome of the FCC's consideration of this proposal.
International Telecommunication Union Rules.
We are required by international rules to coordinate the use of the frequencies on our satellites with other satellite operators who may interfere with us or who may suffer interference from our operations.
Export Control Regulation.
The delivery of satellite-related technical information for use by foreign manufacturing companies and of satellites and related technical information for the purpose of launch by foreign launch services providers are subject to strict export control and prior approval requirements.
Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements.
DBS/DTH providers are subject to other federal and state regulatory requirements, such as telemarketing and advertising rules, and subscriber privacy rules similar to those governing other MVPDs. We have agreed with the Federal Trade Commission, or FTC, to (1)review and monitor compliance with telemarketing laws by any companies we authorize to do telemarketing and by independent retailers, (2)investigate and respond to complaints about alleged improper telemarketing and (3)terminate our relationship with marketers or retailers found in violation. Similarly, we have agreed with certain state attorneys general to comply with advertising disclosure requirements and monitor compliance by independent retailers.
We are also subject to state and federal rules and laws regarding information security. Most of these rules and laws apply to customer information that could be used to commit identity theft. Substantially all of the U.S. states and the District of Columbia have enacted security breach notification laws. These laws generally require that a business give notice to its customers whose financial account information has been disclosed because of a security breach.
In addition, aspects of DBS/DTH service remain regulated at the state and local level. For example, the FCC has promulgated rules prohibiting restrictions by local government agencies and private organizations on the placement of DBS receiving antennas. Local governments and homeowners associations, however, may continue to regulate the placement of such antennas if necessary to accomplish a clearly defined public safety objective or to preserve a recognized historic district, and may also apply to the FCC for a waiver if there are other local concerns of a special or unusual nature. In addition, a number of state and local governments have attempted to impose consumer protection, customer service and other types of regulation on DBS operators. Also, while 23 Table of Contents DIRECTV Congress has prohibited local taxation of DBS service, state taxation is permissible, and many states have imposed such taxes, and additional states have attempted to do so recently. Incident to conducting a consumer directed business, we occasionally receive inquiries or complaints from authorities such as state attorneys general and state consumer protection offices or the FTC. These matters are generally resolved in the ordinary course of business, and DIRECTV has agreed to implement a restitution program for consumers who send eligible complaints related to consumer protection practices.
In Latin America, DIRECTV Latin America and its subsidiaries are subject to laws and regulations in each country in which we operate that govern many of the same aspects of our operations as in the United States, such as landing rights for satellites; spectrum, earth station and other licenses; must carry and other requirements with respect to the channels we carry; and regulations governing telemarketing and customer service. Regulatory regimes in Latin America are generally less developed than in the United States, and the application of existing laws and regulations to DBS/DTH providers is at times uncertain. In addition, there are certain areas where regulations in Latin America are stricter than in the United States, such as regarding labor and consumer protection laws. Foreign exchange laws in some countries can have a material impact on our ability to repatriate funds to the United States. Also, several countries such as Venezuela, Argentina and Brazil have passed or proposed laws imposing certain "national" content requirements, advertising limitations and other requirements on the content we distribute. Such laws can have an adverse impact on the business of our subsidiaries.
INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY All DIRECTV companies maintain active programs for identifying and protecting our important intellectual property. We believe that our growing portfolio of pending and issued patents are important assets. We presently hold over 2,300 issued patents worldwide relating to our past and present businesses, including over 1000 patents developed by, or otherwise relating to, the businesses of DIRECTV U.S. We hold a worldwide portfolio of 1800 trademarks related to the DIRECTV brand, products and services; and that of its related entities. In particular, DIRECTV holds trademark registrations in the US relating to its business, including registrations of the primary "DIRECTV" and the DIRECTV Cyclone Design trademarks. In many instances, these trademarks are licensed royalty-free to third parties for use in support of the DIRECTV U.S. business. We actively protect our important patents, trademarks and other intellectual property rights against unauthorized or improper use by third parties.
ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATION We are subject to requirements of federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations. These include laws regulating air emissions, water discharge, employee safety, and universal and hazardous waste management activities. We have an environmental management function designed to track, facilitate and support our compliance with these requirements and attempt to maintain compliance with all such requirements. We have made and will continue to make, as necessary, capital and other expenditures to comply with environmental requirements. We do not, however, expect capital or other expenditures for environmental compliance to be material in 2015. In addition, we periodically review environmental stewardship concepts (such as green initiatives and energy conservation strategies) and implement these whenever feasible. We have been selected by the Environmental Protection Agency as a 2010, 2011, 2012 and 2013 Energy Star award winner for excellence in energy efficient product design and recognized for our "leadership in advancing technology" to reduce energy while continuing to deliver our service. Environmental requirements are complex, change frequently and have become increasingly more stringent over time. Accordingly, we cannot provide assurance that these requirements will not change or become more stringent in the future in a manner that could have a material adverse effect on our business.
We are also subject to environmental laws requiring the investigation and cleanup of environmental contamination at facilities we formerly owned or operated or currently own or operate or to which we sent hazardous wastes, including specified universal wastes, for treatment, service, disposal or recycling. We are aware of contamination at one of our former sites. We are in the process of complying with the requirements stipulated 24 Table of Contents DIRECTV by the government agency overseeing the site cleanup and have allocated the funds to achieve the decontamination goals.
SEGMENT REPORTING DATA Operating segment and principal geographic area data for 2014, 2013 and 2012 are summarized in Note20 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item8, PartII of this Annual Report.
EMPLOYEES As of December31, 2014, DIRECTV U.S. had approximately 16,500 full-time and 450 part-time employees, DIRECTV Latin America had approximately 13,000 full-time and 2,000 part-time employees and DIRECTV Sports Networks and Other had approximately 200 full-time employees.
ACCESS TO COMPANY REPORTS Our website address is www.directv.com. Our Annual Reports on Form10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form10-Q, Current Reports on Form8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished, if any, pursuant to Section13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are available free of charge through our website as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. We are not incorporating by reference in this Annual Report on Form10-K any information on our website.
DIRECTV, and the DIRECTV Cyclone Design logo, DIRECTV CINEMA and Genie are trademarks of The DIRECTV Group,Inc. and/or its affiliated entities. Other trademarks, service marks and trade names appearing in this Annual Report are the property of their respective holders.
ITEM 1A.RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the following risk factors. The risks described below are not the only ones facing our company.
Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected by the following: We compete with other MVPDs, some of whom have greater resources than we do and levels of competition are increasing.
We compete in the MVPD industry against cable television, telcos and wireless companies and other land-based and satellite-based system operators with service offerings including video, audio and interactive programming, broadband and other entertainment services and telephony services. Some of these competitors have greater financial, marketing and other resources than we do.
Some cable television operators have large, established customer bases and many cable operators have significant investments in, and access to, programming. Cable television operators have advantages relative to our U.S. operations, including or as a result of:  being the incumbent MVPD operator with an established subscriber base in the territories in which DIRECTV U.S. competes;  access to telephone service on upgraded cable systems;  legacy arrangements for exclusivity in certain multiple dwelling units and planned communities.
In addition, certain cable companies and telcos in the U.S. and Latin America are capable of offering bundled video, broadband and telecommunications services. In some cases, it appears that the video component of such bundled offerings is significantly under-priced and, in effect, subsidized by the rates charged for broadband and telephony services. In Latin America, this practice of cross-subsidization is sometimes incentivized 25 Table of Contents DIRECTV by higher taxes on pay TV services than on telecommunication and broadband services. These pricing practices can influence customers' willingness to subscribe to our service at rates we consider appropriate.
Mergers, joint ventures and alliances among wireless or private cable television operators, telcos, broadband service providers and others may result in an increase in the number of providers capable of offering such bundled services.
We have been unable to secure certain international programming, due to exclusive arrangements of programming providers with certain competitors, which has constrained our ability to compete for subscribers who wish to obtain such programming. And as discussed below, certain cable-affiliated programmers have withheld their programming from us in certain markets, which has further constrained our ability to compete for subscribers in those markets.
In the United States, various telcos and broadband service providers have deployed fiber optic lines directly to customers' homes or neighborhoods to deliver video services, which compete with the DIRECTV service. It is uncertain whether we will be able to increase our satellite capacity, offer a significant level of new services in existing markets in which we compete or expand to additional markets as may be necessary to compete effectively. Some of these various telcos and broadband service providers also sell the DIRECTV service as part of a bundle with their voice and data services. A new broadly-deployed network with the capability of providing video, voice and data services could present a significant competitive challenge and, in the case of the telcos currently selling the DIRECTV service, could result in such companies focusing less effort and resources on selling the DIRECTV service or declining to sell it at all. We may be unable to develop other distribution methods to make up for lost sales through the telcos.
As a result of these and other factors, we may not be able to continue to expand our subscriber base or compete effectively against cable television or other MVPD operators in the future.
Emerging digital media competition could materially adversely affect us.
Our business is focused on video, and we face emerging competition from other providers of digital media, some of which have greater financial, marketing and other resources than we do. In particular, programming offered over the Internet has become more prevalent as the speed and quality of broadband networks have improved. Online video distributors and providers such as Netflix, Hulu, Roku, Amazon, Apple and Google, as well as gaming consoles such as Microsoft's Xbox One and Sony's PS4, are aggressively working to become alternative providers of video services. Such services and the growing availability of online content, coupled with an expanding market for connected devices and Internet-connected televisions, as well as wireless and other emerging mobile technologies that provide for the distribution and viewing of video programming, pose a competitive challenge to traditional MVPDs, as a number of consumers may decide to drop or reduce their traditional MVPD subscription package. Some of these services charge a nominal fee or no fee for access to their content, which could adversely affect our business. Programming suppliers also are making more content available on these alternative forms of distribution.
Significant changes in consumer behavior with regard to how they obtain video entertainment and information in response to this emerging digital media competition could materially adversely affect our revenues and earnings or otherwise disrupt our business.
26 Table of Contents DIRECTV We depend on others to produce programming and programming costs are increasing.
Almost all of our programming is provided by third parties unaffiliated with DIRECTV. Typically our programming agreements are multiple-year agreements and contain annual price increases. Upon renewal of expiring contracts, programming suppliers have historically increased the rates they charge us for programming. Often these increases are greater than the rate of inflation. We expect this practice to continue and the negotiations over such increases to become more difficult and potentially disruptive. From time to time during difficult negotiations, programming suppliers have and may in the future, require us to remove their programming our service which can result in customer dissatisfaction and increased churn. Programming expenses will continue to be our largest single expense item in the foreseeable future. Our industry has continued to experience an increase in the cost of programming, especially sports programming and retransmission costs for broadcast programming. Continued increases in programming costs may force us to increase the rates that we charge our subscribers, which could in turn, especially in a difficult economic environment, cause subscribers to terminate their subscriptions or potential new subscribers to refrain from subscribing to our service. Furthermore, due to the economy and other factors, we may be unable to pass programming cost increases on to our subscribers. Alternatively, to attempt to mitigate the effect of price increases, we may refuse to carry certain channels, which could adversely affect subscriber growth or result in higher churn.
In addition, a limited number of cable-affiliated programmers have in the past denied us access to their programming. As discussed below, the FCC's prohibition on most exclusive distribution arrangements involving cable operators and cable-affiliated programmers expired in 2012, replaced by a case-by-case complaint procedure in which the burden rests with the complainant. Our ability to compete successfully will depend on our ability to continue to obtain desirable programming and deliver it to our subscribers at competitive prices. We may not be able to renew these agreements on favorable terms, or at all, or these agreements may be canceled prior to expiration of their original terms. If we are unable to renew any of these agreements or the other parties cancel the agreements, we may not be able to obtain substitute programming, or what we obtain may not be comparable in quality or cost to our existing programming.
If we are unable to obtain rights to programming or to pass additional costs on, the potential loss of subscribers and the need to absorb some or all of the additional costs could have a material adverse effect on our earnings or cash flow.
We may experience increased subscriber churn or higher subscriber upgrade and retention.
Subscriber service cancellations, or churn, have a significant financial impact on the results of operations of any subscription television provider, as does the cost of upgrading and retaining subscribers. Any increase in our upgrade and retention costs for our existing subscribers or increased programming costs may adversely affect our financial performance or cause us to increase our subscription rates, which could increase churn. Churn may also increase due to factors beyond our control, including churn by subscribers who are unable to pay their monthly subscription fees, a slowing economy, significant signal theft, consumer fraud, a maturing subscriber base and competitive offers and alternatives. Any of the risks described in this Annual Report that could potentially have a material adverse impact on our costs or service quality or that could result in higher prices for our subscribers could cause an increase in churn and consequently have a material adverse effect on our earnings and financial performance.
Our subscriber acquisition costs could materially increase.
We incur costs for subscribers acquired by us and through third parties. These costs are known as subscriber acquisition costs and include the cost of set-top receivers and other equipment, commissions we pay to third parties, and the cost of installation, advertising, marketing and customer call center expenses associated with the acquisition of new subscribers. Our subscriber acquisition costs may materially increase if we offer more costly advanced equipment or services, including connecting our receivers to the customers' broadband service, continue 27 Table of Contents DIRECTV or expand current sales promotion activities or introduce more aggressive promotions. Any material increase in subscriber acquisition costs from current levels would negatively impact our earnings and could materially adversely affect our financial performance.
Weakening economic conditions may reduce subscriber spending and our rate of growth of subscriber additions and may increase subscriber churn.
Our business may be affected by factors that are beyond our control, such as downturns in economic activity, or in the MVPD industry. Factors such as interest rates and the health of the housing market may impact our business. A substantial portion of our revenues comes from residential customers whose spending patterns may be affected by prevailing economic conditions. Our market share in multiple dwelling units such as apartment buildings is lower than that of many of our competitors. If unemployment and foreclosures of single family residences increase, our earnings and financial performance could be negatively affected more than those of our competitors. In addition, if our customers seek alternative means to obtain video entertainment, they may choose to purchase fewer services from us or may discontinue receiving our services. Due to the economic and competitive environment, we may need to spend more, or we may provide greater discounts or credits, to acquire and retain customers who may spend less on our services. If our ARPU decreases or does not increase commensurate with increases in programming or other costs, our margins could become compressed and the long-term value of a customer would then decrease. A weak economy may affect our net subscriber additions and reduce subscriber spending and, if these economic conditions continue or deteriorate, subscriber growth could decline and churn could increase which would have a material adverse effect on our earnings and financial performance.
DIRECTV Latin America is subject to various additional risks associated with doing business internationally, which include political instability, economic instability and foreign currency controls and exchange rate volatility.
All of DIRECTV Latin America's operating companies are located outside the continental United States. DIRECTV Latin America operates and has subscribers located throughout Latin America and the Caribbean, which makes it vulnerable to risks of conducting business in foreign markets, including:  difficulties and costs associated with complying with a wide variety of complex laws, treaties and regulations;  unexpected changes in political or regulatory environments;  earnings and cash flows that may be subject to exchange rate fluctuations, tax withholding requirements or the imposition of tariffs, exchange controls or other restrictions;  restrictions on, or difficulties and costs associated with, the repatriation of cash from foreign countries to the United States;  political and economic instability;  import and export restrictions and other trade barriers;  difficulties in maintaining overseas subsidiaries and international operations;  difficulties in obtaining approval for significant transactions;  government limitations on foreign ownership;  government takeover or nationalization of business; and  government mandated price controls.
28 Table of Contents DIRECTV In the past, the countries that constitute some of DIRECTV Latin America's largest markets, including Brazil, Argentina, Colombia and Venezuela, have experienced economic crises, characterized by exchange rate instability, currency devaluation, high inflation, high interest rates, economic contraction, a reduction or cessation of international capital flows, a reduction of liquidity in the banking sector and high unemployment. These economic conditions have often been related to political instability. If these economic conditions recur, they could substantially reduce the purchasing power of the population in our markets, including the middle-markets which we are targeting, and materially adversely affect our business. Also, foreign currency exchange controls are currently in effect in Venezuela and Argentina, and have adversely affected our ability to repatriate cash balances from those countries.
Because DIRECTV Latin America offers premium pay television programming, its business may be particularly vulnerable to economic downturns. DIRECTV Latin America has in the past experienced, and may in the future experience, decreases or instability in consumer demand for its programming and increases in subscriber credit problems. DIRECTV Latin America's inability to adjust its business and operations to address these issues, including the inability to pass on price increases to offset inflation, could materially adversely affect its revenues and ability to sustain profitable operations.
Our ability to keep pace with technological developments is uncertain.
In our industry, changes occur rapidly as new technologies are developed, which could render our services and products obsolete. We may not be able to keep pace with technological developments. If new technologies on which we focus our investments fail to achieve acceptance in the marketplace or our technology does not work and requires significant cost to replace or fix, we could suffer a material adverse effect on our future competitive position, which could cause a reduction in our revenues and earnings. Further, after incurring substantial costs, one or more of the technologies under development by us or any of our strategic partners could become obsolete prior to its introduction.
Technological innovation depends, to a significant extent, on the work of technically skilled employees. Competition for the services of these employees has been vigorous. We may not be able to continue to attract and retain such employees.
To access technologies and provide products that are necessary for us to remain competitive, we may make future acquisitions and investments and may enter into strategic partnerships with other companies. Such investments may require a commitment of significant capital and human and other resources. The value of such acquisitions, investments and partnerships and the technology accessed may be highly speculative. Arrangements with third parties can lead to contractual and other disputes and dependence on others for the development and delivery of necessary technology that we may not be able to control or influence. Such relationships may commit us to technologies that are rendered obsolete by other developments or preclude the pursuit of other technologies which may prove to be superior.
Our business relies on intellectual property, some of which is owned by third parties, and we may inadvertently infringe patents and proprietary rights of others.
Many entities, including some of our competitors, have or may obtain patents and other intellectual property rights that cover or affect products or services related to those that we currently offer or may offer. If a court determines that one or more of our services or the products used to transmit or receive our services infringes on intellectual property owned by others, we and the applicable manufacturers or vendors may be required to cease developing or marketing those services and products, to obtain licenses from the owners of the intellectual property or to redesign those services and products in such a way as to avoid infringing such intellectual property rights. If a third party holds intellectual property rights, it may not allow us or the applicable manufacturers to use its intellectual property at any price, which could materially adversely affect our competitive position.
29 Table of Contents DIRECTV We may not be aware of all intellectual property rights that our services or the products used to transmit or receive our services may potentially infringe. U.S. patent applications are generally confidential until the Patent and Trademark Office issues a patent. Therefore, we cannot evaluate the extent to which our services or the products used to transmit or receive our services may infringe claims contained in pending patent applications. Further, without lengthy litigation, it is often not possible to determine definitively whether a claim of infringement is valid.
We cannot estimate the extent to which we may be required in the future to obtain intellectual property licenses or the availability and cost of any such licenses. Those costs, and their impact on our earnings, could be material. Damages in patent infringement cases may also include treble damages. If we are required to pay royalties to third parties, these increased costs could materially adversely affect our operating results. We are currently being sued in patent infringement actions related to use of technologies in our DTH business. There can be no assurance that the courts will conclude that our services or the products used to transmit or receive our services do not infringe on the rights of third parties, that we or the manufacturers would be able to obtain licenses from these persons on commercially reasonable terms or, if we were unable to obtain such licenses, that we or the manufacturers would be able to redesign our services or the products used to transmit or receive our services to avoid infringement. The final disposition of these claims is not expected to have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, but could possibly be material to our consolidated results of operations for any one period. Further, no assurance can be given that any adverse outcome would not be material to our consolidated financial position. See "Legal Proceedings-Intellectual Property Litigation" in PartI, Item3 which is incorporated by reference herein.
We rely on key executives.
We believe that our future success will depend to a significant extent upon the performance of certain of our key executives. The loss of certain of our key executives could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
Construction or launch delays on satellites could materially adversely affect our revenues and earnings.
A key component of our business strategy is our ability to expand our offering of new programming and services, including HD and 4K programming. In order to accomplish this goal, we need to construct and launch new satellites. The construction and launch of satellites are often subject to delays, including construction delays, unavailability of launch opportunities due to competition for launch slots, weather, general delays when a launch provider experiences a launch failure, and delays in obtaining regulatory approvals. A significant delay in the delivery of any satellite would materially adversely affect the use of the satellite and thus could materially adversely affect our anticipated revenues and earnings. If satellite construction schedules are not met, there can be no assurance that a launch opportunity will be available at the time a satellite is ready to be launched. Certain delays in satellite construction could also jeopardize a satellite authorization that is conditioned on timely construction and launch of the satellite.
Satellites are subject to significant launch and operational risks.
Satellites are subject to significant operational risks relating to launch and while in orbit. These risks include launch failure, incorrect orbital placement or improper operation. Launch failures result in significant delays in the deployment of satellites because of the need both to construct replacement satellites, which can take up to 36months, and to obtain other launch opportunities. Any significant delays or failures in successfully launching and deploying our satellites could materially adversely affect our ability to generate revenues. While we have traditionally purchased insurance covering the launch and, in limited cases, operation of our satellites, such policies typically cover the loss of the satellite itself or a portion thereof, and not the business interruption or other associated direct and indirect costs. In-orbit risks include malfunctions, commonly referred to as anomalies, and collisions with meteoroids, other spacecraft or other space debris. Anomalies occur as a result of satellite 30 Table of Contents DIRECTV manufacturing errors, problems with the power systems or control systems of the satellites and general failures resulting from operating satellites in the harsh space environment. We work closely with our satellite manufacturers to determine and eliminate the potential causes of anomalies in new satellites and provide for redundancies of critical components as well as having backup satellite capacity. However, we cannot assure that we will not experience anomalies in the future, nor can we assure you that our backup satellite capacity will be sufficient.
Any single anomaly or series of anomalies could materially adversely affect our operations and revenues and our relationships with our subscribers, as well as our ability to attract new subscribers for our services. Anomalies may also reduce the expected useful life of a satellite, creating additional expenses due to the need to provide replacement or backup satellites and potentially reducing revenues if service is interrupted. Finally, the occurrence of anomalies may materially adversely affect our ability to insure our satellites at commercially reasonable premiums, if at all.
Our ability to earn revenue also depends on the usefulness of our satellites. Each satellite has a limited useful life. A number of factors affect the useful life of a satellite, including, among other things:  the design;  the quality of its construction;  the durability of its component parts;  the insertion of the satellite into orbit;  any required movement, temporary or permanent, of the satellite;  the ability to continue to maintain proper orbit and control over the satellite's functions; and  the remaining on-board fuel following orbit insertion.
Generally, the minimum design life of the satellites in our fleet is between 12 and 16years. The actual useful lives of the satellites may be shorter or longer, in some cases significantly. Our operating results could be adversely affected if the useful life of any of our satellites were significantly shorter than 12years from the date of launch.
In the event of a failure or loss of any of DIRECTV U.S.' satellites, DIRECTV U.S. may relocate another satellite and use it as a replacement for the failed or lost satellite. In the event of a complete satellite failure, DIRECTV U.S.' services provided via that satellite could be unavailable for several days or longer while backup in-orbit satellites are repositioned and services are moved. DIRECTV U.S. is not insured for any resultant lost revenues. The use of backup satellite capacity for DIRECTV U.S. programming may require DIRECTV U.S. to discontinue some programming services due to potentially reduced capacity on the backup satellite. Relocation of a DIRECTV U.S. satellite may not require prior FCC approval if, among other things, the replacement satellite would operate within the authorized or coordinated parameters of the failed or lost satellite. If that is not the case, prior FCC approval would be required. Such FCC approval may not be obtained on a timely basis or at all. DIRECTV U.S. believes we have in-orbit satellite capacity to expeditiously recover transmission of most of our programming in the event one of our in-orbit satellites fails. However, programming continuity cannot be assured in the event of multiple satellite losses.
DIRECTV Latin America provides its services in PanAmericana and Brazil using leased transponders on two satellites. Sky Mexico provides its services from leased transponders on a separate satellite. Backup satellite capacity is available to serve Sky Brasil and Sky Mexico. In the event of a failure of a satellite used to provide services to Sky Brasil or Sky Mexico, we believe DIRECTV Latin America has sufficient in orbit back-up capacity to recover transmission of most of its programming distributed in those markets. In PanAmericana, DIRECTV Latin America currently has partial designated back up satellite capacity for the region and, by the end of 2015, we expect to have full back up satellite capacity to ensure programming continuity in the event of a satellite loss.
31 Table of Contents DIRECTV In addition, DIRECTV Latin America is dependent on third parties for the orbital slots in which its leased satellites are located. If those third parties fail to adequately protect their rights to continued use of and other rights related to those orbital slots, or fail to take appropriate steps to manage potential conflicts with rights holders for adjacent orbital slots, then DIRECTV Latin America could lose rights to operate from those locations or may otherwise be required to modify or limit its operations from those locations which could materially adversely affect DIRECTV Latin America's transmission capacity and its ability to compete in regions served from those orbital slots.
The loss of a satellite could materially adversely affect our earnings.
Any launch vehicle failure, or loss or destruction of any of our satellites, even if insured, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations, our ability to comply with FCC regulatory obligations and our ability to fund the construction or acquisition of replacement satellites in a timely fashion, or at all. At December31, 2014, the net book value of in-orbit satellites was $1,806million, none of which was insured.
DIRECTV U.S. depends on the Communications Act for access to cable-affiliated programming and changes impacting that access could materially adversely affect us.
DIRECTV U.S. purchases a substantial percentage of programming from programmers that are affiliated with cable system operators, including key RSNs. Currently, under certain provisions of the Communications Act governing access to programming, cable-affiliated programmers generally must sell and deliver their programming services to all MVPDs on non-discriminatory terms and conditions.
Any change in the Communications Act or the FCC's rules that would permit programmers that are affiliated with cable system operators to refuse to provide such programming or to impose discriminatory terms or conditions could materially adversely affect our ability to acquire programming on a cost-effective basis, or at all. The Communications Act prohibitions on certain cable industry exclusive contracting practices with cable-affiliated programmers expired in October 2012. Under the remaining rules, DIRECTV may bring complaints on a case-by-case basis alleging that a particular instance of exclusivity constitutes a prohibited "unfair practice" that has the purpose or effect of significantly hindering or preventing DIRECTV from providing programming to consumers. The FCC is currently considering whether to adopt additional safeguards, such as rebuttable presumptions in favor of complainants, but we cannot predict what if any action the FCC will take. Regardless of the outcome of those considerations, the weakening of the program access rules may increase the ability of cable-affiliated programmers to deny DIRECTV access to their programming.
In addition, certain cable providers have denied in the past and could in the future deny us and other MVPDs access to a limited number of channels created by programmers with which the cable providers are affiliated. In other cases, such programmers have denied MVPDs high-definition feeds of such programming. The cable providers have asserted that they were not required by the Communications Act to provide such programming (or resolution) due to the manner in which that programming is distributed. The FCC adopted rules to close this loophole. However, an evidentiary showing by an MVPD seeking access to such programming would be required and cable operators have vigorously contested such showings.
DIRECTV U.S. itself is subject to similar restrictions with respect to certain programmers affiliated with us. The FCC imposed a number of conditions on its approval of Liberty Media's acquisition of News Corporation's interest in DIRECTV which continue to apply. Those conditions require DIRECTV U.S. to offer national and regional programming services it controls to all MVPDs on non-exclusive and non-discriminatory terms and conditions, and prohibits DIRECTV U.S. from entering into exclusive arrangements with affiliated programmers or unduly influencing such programmers in their dealings with other MVPDs.
We are subject to significant regulatory oversight and changes in applicable regulatory requirements could adversely affect our business. You should review the regulatory disclosures under the caption "Item1BusinessGovernment RegulationFCC Regulation Under the Communications Act and Related Acts" which is incorporated herein by reference.
32 Table of Contents DIRECTV Changes to and implementation of statutory copyright license requirements may negatively affect our ability to deliver local and distant broadcast stations, as well as other aspects of our business.
We carry the signals of local and distant broadcast stations pursuant to statutory copyright licenses contained in SHVA, and our carriage of these stations is governed by the FCC and Copyright Office implementing regulations. Any changes to such laws or regulations could limit our ability to deliver local or distant broadcast signals. More generally, we have limited capacity, and the projected number of markets in which we can deliver local broadcast programming will continue to be constrained because of the statutory "carry-one, carry-all" requirement and may be reduced depending on the FCC's interpretation of its rules, as well as judicial decisions. The new "market modification" procedures could also limit our ability to carry local signals, depending on how the FCC implements them. We may not be able to comply with these must carry rules, or compliance may mean that we are not able to use capacity otherwise for new or additional local or national programming services.
The FCC has adopted rules for "retransmission consent" requiring us to negotiate in good faith with broadcast stations seeking carriage outside of the mandatory carriage regime described elsewhere. Failure to comply with these rules could subject us to administrative sanctions and other penalties. Moreover, the FCC is considering changes to these and other rules related to retransmission consent, which could make negotiations more difficult, increase fees charged for carriage, or result in the increased withholding of broadcast signals.
Satellite programming signals have been stolen and may be stolen, which could result in lost revenues and would cause us to incur incremental operating costs that do not result in subscriber acquisition.
The delivery of subscription programming requires the use of conditional access technology to limit access to programming to only those who are authorized to view it. The conditional access system uses encryption technology to protect the transmitted signal from unauthorized access. It is illegal to create, sell or otherwise distribute software or devices to circumvent that conditional access technology. However, theft of cable and satellite programming has been widely reported, and the access cards used in our conditional access system have been, and could be compromised in the future.
We have undertaken various initiatives with respect to our conditional access system to further enhance the security of the DIRECTV signal. We provide our subscribers with advanced access cards that we believe significantly enhance the security of our signal. We believe these access cards have not been compromised. However, we cannot guarantee that these advanced access cards will prevent future theft of our satellite programming signals. There can be no assurance that we will succeed in developing the technology we need to effectively restrict or eliminate signal theft. If our current access cards are compromised, our revenue and our ability to contract for programming could be materially adversely affected. In addition, our operating costs could increase if we attempt to implement additional measures to combat signal theft.
In addition, particularly in Latin America, we also face other forms of signal theft, including illegal retransmission of our signal through unauthorized cable head-ends and Internet key sharing schemes. If we are not able to contain and combat these and other forms of signal theft, such schemes could limit our growth and materially adversely affect our ability to generate revenue.
The ability to maintain FCC licenses and other regulatory approvals is critical to our business.
If we do not obtain all requisite U.S. regulatory approvals for the construction, launch and operation of any of our existing or future satellites, for the use of frequencies at the orbital locations planned for these satellites or for the provision of service, or the licenses obtained impose operational restrictions on us, our ability to generate revenue and profits could be materially adversely affected. In addition, under certain circumstances, existing licenses are subject to revocation or modification and upon expiration, extension or renewal may not be granted. If existing licenses are not extended or renewed, or are revoked or materially modified, our ability to generate revenue could be materially adversely affected.
33 Table of Contents DIRECTV Other U.S. regulatory risks include:  the relocation of satellites to different orbital locations if the FCC determines that relocation is in the public interest;  the denial by the FCC of an application to replace an existing satellite with a new satellite, or to operate a satellite beyond the term of its current authorization, or to operate an earth station to communicate with such satellite; and  the authorization by the United States or foreign governments of the use of frequencies by third party satellite or terrestrial facilities that have the potential to interfere with communication to or from our satellites, which could interfere with our contractual obligations or services to subscribers or other business operations.
All of our FCC satellite authorizations are subject to conditions imposed by the FCC in addition to the FCC's general authority to modify, cancel or revoke those authorizations. Use of FCC licenses and other authorizations are often subject to conditions, including technical requirements and implementation deadlines. Failure to comply with such requirements, or comply in a timely manner, could lead to the loss of authorizations and could have a material adverse effect on our ability to generate revenue. For example, loss of an authorization could potentially reduce the amount of programming and other services available to our subscribers. The materiality of such a loss of authorization would vary based upon, among other things, the orbital location at which the frequencies may be used.
Moreover, some of our authorizations and future applications may be subject to petitions and oppositions, and there can be no assurance that our authorizations will not be canceled, revoked or modified or that our applications will not be denied. The outcomes of any legislative or regulatory proceedings or their effect on our business cannot be predicted. You should review "Item1. BusinessGovernment RegulationFCC Regulation Under the Communications Act and Related Acts," which is incorporated herein by reference.
DIRECTV U.S. has significant debt.
The carrying value of DIRECTV U.S.' debt, which is guaranteed by DIRECTV, totaled $20,527million as of December31, 2014. If we do not have sufficient income or other sources of cash, it could affect our ability to service debt and pay other obligations.
We may not be able to obtain or retain certain foreign regulatory approvals.
There can be no assurance that any current regulatory approvals held by us are, or will remain, sufficient in the view of foreign regulatory authorities, or that any additional necessary approvals will be granted on a timely basis or at all, in all jurisdictions in which we operate, or that applicable restrictions in those jurisdictions will not be unduly burdensome. The failure to obtain and maintain the authorizations necessary to operate satellites or provide satellite service internationally could have a material adverse effect on our ability to generate revenue and our overall competitive position.
We rely on network and information systems and other technology, and a disruption or failure of such networks, systems or technology as a result of misappropriation of data or other malfeasance, as well as outages, natural disasters, accidental releases of information or similar events, may disrupt our business.
Because network and information systems and other technologies are critical to our operating activities, network or information system shutdowns caused by events such as computer hacking on our network or our directv.com website, dissemination of computer viruses, worms and other destructive or disruptive software, and other malicious activity including industrial espionage and malicious social engineering, as well as power outages, natural disasters such as earthquakes, terrorist attacks and similar events, pose significant risks. Due to the fast-moving pace of technological advancements, it may be difficult to detect, contain and remediate every such 34 Table of Contents DIRECTV event. Such an event could have an adverse impact on our operations, including service disruption, degradation of service, excessive call volume to call centers and damage to our broadcast centers, other properties, equipment and data. Such an event also could result in large expenditures necessary to repair or replace such networks or information systems or to protect them from similar events in the future. Third parties may also experience errors or disruptions that could adversely impact our business operations and over which we have limited control. Significant incidents could result in a disruption of our operations, customer dissatisfaction, or a loss of customers or revenues. The amount and scope of insurance we maintain against losses resulting from these events may not be sufficient to cover our losses or otherwise adequately compensate us for any disruptions to our business that may result. Furthermore, our operating activities could be subject to risks caused by misappropriation, misuse, leakage, falsification and accidental release or loss of information maintained in our information technology systems and networks, including customer, personnel and vendor data. We could be exposed to significant costs if such risks were to materialize, and such events could damage our reputation and credibility and have a negative impact on our revenues. We also could be required to expend significant capital and other resources to remedy any such security breach. As a result of the increasing awareness concerning the importance of safeguarding personal information, the potential misuse of such information and legislation that has been adopted or is being considered regarding the protection, privacy and security of personal information, the liability associated with information-related risks is increasing, particularly for businesses like ours that handle a large amount of personal customer data. The occurrence of any such network or information systems related events or security breaches could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.
Our DIRECTV Everywhere initiative offers access to our DIRECTV service content through streaming or other access through the Internet and is an important part of our strategy to continue to build the value of our service for our customers. This initiative will become more important as the volume and variety of such programming through streaming increases. The means to provide such access is a combination of proprietary technology and technology provided by our third-party vendors. Disruption or failure of these technologies or a disruption in the Internet could limit or preclude access by our customers to our streaming product.
We face risks arising from the outcome of various legal proceedings.
We are involved in various legal proceedings, including those arising in the ordinary course of business, such as consumer class actions and those described under the caption "Legal Proceedings" in PartI, Item3 incorporated by reference herein. Such matters include investigations and legal actions by the FTC and state attorneys general where regulators may seek monetary damages and may also seek to require or prohibit certain actions by us with regard to our current or potential customers. While we do not believe that any of these proceedings alone or in the aggregate will have a material effect on our consolidated financial position, an adverse outcome in one or more of these matters or the imposition of conditions by regulators on the conduct of our business could be material to our consolidated results of operations and cash flows for any one period. Further, no assurance can be given that any adverse outcome would not be material to our consolidated financial position.
Our strategic initiatives may not be successfully implemented, may not elicit the expected customer response in the market and may result in competitive reactions.
The Company has identified a number of strategic initiatives that it intends to pursue which are discussed in more detail in the "Business Strategy" section beginning in PartI, Item1 of this Annual Report. The successful implementation of those strategic initiatives requires an investment of time, talent and money and is dependent upon a number of factors some of which are not within our control. Those factors include the ability to execute such initiatives in the market, the response of existing and potential new customers, and the actions or reactions of competitors. If we fail to properly execute or deliver products or services that do not address customers' expectations, it may have an adverse effect on our ability to retain and attract customers and may increase our costs and reduce our revenues. Similarly, competitive actions or reactions to our initiatives or advancements in technology or competitive products or services could impair our ability to execute or could limit the effectiveness 35 Table of Contents DIRECTV of those strategic initiatives. There can be no assurance that we will successfully implement these strategic initiatives or that, if successfully pursued, they will have the desired effect on our business or results of operations.
In addition, below are risk factors relating to the proposed AT&T merger transaction: DIRECTV may have difficulty attracting, motivating and retaining executives and other key employees in light of the pending merger with AT&T.
Competition for qualified personnel can be intense. Current and prospective employees of DIRECTV may experience uncertainty about the effect of the merger, which may impair DIRECTV's ability to attract, retain and motivate key management, sales, marketing, technical and other personnel prior to the merger. Employee retention may be particularly challenging during the pendency of the merger, as employees of DIRECTV may experience uncertainty about their future roles with the combined company.
In addition, there could be disruptions to or distractions for the workforce and management associated with obtaining the required regulatory approvals to close the proposed transaction and planning for the integration of DIRECTV into AT&T once the transaction is approved.
Completion of the merger is subject to conditions and if these conditions are not satisfied or waived, the merger will not be completed.
The obligations of AT&T and DIRECTV to complete the merger are subject to satisfaction or waiver of a number of conditions. The obligations of AT&T and DIRECTV are each subject to, among other conditions: (i)receipt of all necessary consents from the FCC for the consummation of the merger, (ii)absence of any applicable law, order or injunction that prohibits completion of the merger, (iii)accuracy of the representations and warranties made in the merger agreement by the other party, subject to certain materiality qualifications, (iv)performance in all material respects by the other party of the material obligations required to be performed by it at or prior to completion of the merger and (v)the absence of a material adverse effect on the other party. In addition, the obligations of AT&T are also subject to receipt of a tax opinion from Sullivan& CromwellLLP, dated as of the effective time, to the effect that the merger will qualify as a reorganization within the meaning of Section368 of the Internal Revenue Code. The obligations of DIRECTV are also subject to receipt of a tax opinion from Weil, Gotshal and MangesLLP, dated as of the effective time, to the effect that the merger will qualify as a reorganization within the meaning of Section368 of the Internal Revenue Code (see the section entitled "The Merger Agreement-Conditions to Completion of the Merger"). In certain cases, AT&T's obligation to complete the merger is further subject to the relevant governmental approvals having been received without the imposition of, and there being no applicable law imposing, a regulatory material adverse effect (see the definition of regulatory material adverse effect in the section entitled "The Merger Agreement-Regulatory Approvals" beginning on page87 of the Definitive Proxy Statement of DIRECTV filed with the SEC on August21, 2014, or the August Proxy Statement).
For a more complete summary of the conditions that must be satisfied or waived prior to completion of the merger, see the section entitled "The Merger Agreement-Conditions to Completion of the Merger" beginning on page104 of the August Proxy Statement. The satisfaction of all of the required conditions could delay the completion of the merger for a significant period of time or prevent it from occurring. Any delay in completing the merger could cause AT&T not to realize some or all of the benefits that AT&T expects to achieve if the merger is successfully completed within its expected time frame. Further, there can be no assurance that the conditions to the closing of the merger will be satisfied or waived or that the merger will be completed. See the risk factor entitled "Failure to complete the merger could negatively impact the stock price and the future business and financial results of DIRECTV," below.
36 Table of Contents DIRECTV DIRECTV's business relationships may be subject to disruption due to uncertainty associated with the merger.
Parties with which DIRECTV does business may experience uncertainty associated with the transaction, including with respect to current or future business relationships with AT&T, DIRECTV or the combined company. DIRECTV's business relationships may be subject to disruption as customers, distributors, suppliers, vendors and others may attempt to negotiate changes in existing business relationships or consider entering into business relationships with parties other than AT&T, DIRECTV or the combined company. These disruptions could have an adverse effect on the business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects of DIRECTV. The risks, and adverse effects, of such disruptions could be exacerbated by a delay in completion of the merger or termination of the Merger Agreement.
Failure to complete the merger could negatively impact the stock price and the future business and financial results of DIRECTV.
If the merger is not completed for any reason, the ongoing business of DIRECTV may be adversely affected and, without realizing any of the benefits of having completed the merger, DIRECTV would be subject to a number of risks, including the following:  DIRECTV may experience negative reactions from the financial markets, including negative impacts on its stock price;  DIRECTV may experience negative reactions from its customers, regulators and employees;  DIRECTV will be required to pay certain costs relating to the merger, whether or not the merger is completed;  the Merger Agreement places certain restrictions on the conduct of DIRECTV's business prior to completion of the merger. Such restrictions, the waiver of which is subject to the consent of the AT&T (in certain cases, not to be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed), may prevent DIRECTV from making certain acquisitions or taking certain other specified actions during the pendency of the merger (see the section entitled "The Merger Agreement-Conduct of Business of DIRECTV and its Subsidiaries Prior to Completion of the Merger" beginning on page97 of the August Proxy Statement for a description of the restrictive covenants applicable to DIRECTV and AT&T); and  matters relating to the merger (including integration planning) will require substantial commitments of time and resources by DIRECTV management, which would otherwise have been devoted to day-to-day operations and other opportunities that may have been beneficial to DIRECTV as an independent company.
In addition to the above risks, DIRECTV may be required, under certain circumstances, to pay to AT&T the termination fee, which may materially adversely affect DIRECTV's financial results. Further, DIRECTV could be subject to litigation related to any failure to complete the merger or related to any enforcement proceeding commenced against DIRECTV to perform its obligations under the Merger Agreement. If the merger is not completed, these risks may materialize and may adversely affect DIRECTV's business, financial condition, financial results and stock prices.
We may face other risks described from time to time in periodic reports filed by us with the SEC.
From time to time, we may disclose other relevant risks in other periodic reports that we file with the SEC. We urge you to consider the above risk factors and any other risks disclosed in such periodic reports carefully in evaluating the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report. The forward-looking statements included in this Annual Report are made only as of the date of this Annual Report and we undertake no obligation to publicly update these forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
37 Table of Contents DIRECTV ITEM 1B.UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None.
ITEM 2.PROPERTIES As of December31, 2014, we had approximately 231 owned and leased locations operating in the United States and Latin America. The major locations of the DIRECTV U.S. segment include eight administrative offices, two broadcast centers and six call centers. The major locations of the DIRECTV Latin America segment include 13 administrative offices, four broadcast centers and five call centers. We consider our properties adequate for our present needs.
ITEM 3.LEGAL PROCEEDINGS (a)Material pending legal proceedings, other than ordinary routine litigation incidental to the business, to which we became or were a party during the year ended December31, 2014 or subsequent thereto, but before the filing of the report, are summarized below: Intellectual Property Litigation.
We are a defendant in several unrelated lawsuits claiming infringement of various patents relating to various aspects of our businesses. In certain of these cases other industry participants are also defendants, and also in certain of these cases we expect that any potential liability would be the responsibility of our equipment vendors pursuant to applicable contractual indemnification provisions. Further, in certain of these cases, suppliers of equipment to DIRECTV are also defendants, and DIRECTV has contractual obligations to indemnify and hold harmless those suppliers in those cases. To the extent that the allegations in these lawsuits can be analyzed by us at this stage of their proceedings, we believe the claims are without merit and intend to defend the actions vigorously. We have determined the likelihood of a material liability in such matters is remote or have made appropriate accruals and the final disposition of these claims is not expected to have a material effect on our consolidated financial position. However, if an adverse ruling is made in a lawsuit involving key intellectual property, such ruling could possibly be material to our consolidated results of operations of any one period. No assurance can be given that any adverse outcome would not be material to our consolidated financial position.
State and Federal Inquiries.
From time to time, we receive investigative inquiries or subpoenas from state and federal authorities with respect to alleged violations of state and federal statutes. These inquiries may lead to legal proceedings in some cases.
FTC Investigation.
As reported previously, DIRECTV U.S. received a request for information from the Federal Trade Commission, or FTC, on issues similar to those resolved in 2011 with a multistate group of state attorneys general. We have been cooperating with the FTC by providing information about our sales and marketing practices and customer complaints. We have engaged in ongoing negotiations with FTC staff concerning these issues. The FTC staff has recently advised us that they have obtained authority from the Commissioners to file suit and that the damages sought by the FTC in such a proceeding could be substantial. However, until suit is filed, the parties are continuing to engage in discussion regarding a potential settlement.
Waste Disposal Inquiry.
In August 2012, DIRECTV U.S. received from the State of California subpoenas and interrogatories related to our generation, handling, record keeping, transportation and disposal of hazardous waste, including universal waste, in the State of California, and the training of employees regarding the same. The investigation is jointly conducted by the Office of the Attorney General and the District Attorney for Alameda County and appears to be part of a broader effort to investigate waste handling and disposal processes of a number of industries. We are continuing to review our policies and procedures applicable to all facilities and cooperating with the investigation.
38 Table of Contents DIRECTV Other.
We are subject to other legal proceedings and claims that arise in the ordinary course of our business. The amount of ultimate liability with respect to such actions is not expected to materially affect our financial position, results of operations or liquidity.
(b)The following previously reported legal proceeding was terminated during the fourth quarter ended December31, 2014.
DIRECTV Shareholder Litigation-Proposed DIRECTV and AT&T Merger.
As previously reported, beginning on May21, 2014, and following the May18, 2014 announcement that DIRECTV had entered into a definitive agreement to combine with AT&TInc., several shareholder putative class action lawsuits were filed, six in Delaware Chancery Court, or the Delaware Actions, and one in California Superior Court, or the California Action, against DIRECTV, its directors and AT&TInc., alleging breach of fiduciary duties in connection with the proposed transaction. The complaints generally and collectively asserted that defendants failed to maximize the value of DIRECTV, and sought to enjoin the proposed transaction as well as unspecified damages, costs and fees. An Order consolidating the Delaware Actions and appointing Lead Plaintiff and Lead Counsel was entered on July21, 2014 and discovery in the Delaware Actions was stayed pending the filing of a Consolidated Complaint. Subsequently, Lead Counsel in the Delaware Actions filed a motion to voluntarily dismiss the Delaware Actions against all defendants and that motion was granted by order entered by the Chancery Court on October28, 2014. The California Action subsequently has been voluntarily dismissed by plaintiff effective February9, 2015.
ITEM 4.MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES Not applicable.
39 Table of Contents DIRECTV PART II ITEM 5.MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Common Stock Price Our common stock is publicly traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol "DTV." The following table sets forth for the quarters indicated the high and low sales prices for our common stock, as reported on the NASDAQ Global Select Market.
2014 High Low Fourth Quarter $ 88.08 $ 82.04 Third Quarter 88.25 83.14 Second Quarter 89.46 73.54 First Quarter 80.77 67.80 2013 High Low Fourth Quarter $ 69.15 $ 57.40 Third Quarter 67.85 57.05 Second Quarter 65.81 53.50 First Quarter 57.64 47.71 As of the close of business on February13, 2015, there were 42,995 holders of record of our common stock.
Dividend Rights and Other Stockholder Matters Holders of our common stock are entitled to such dividends and other distributions in cash, stock or property as may be declared by our Board of Directors in its sole discretion, subject to the preferential and other dividend rights of any outstanding series of our preferred stock. There were no shares of our preferred stock outstanding at December31, 2014.
No dividends on our common stock have been declared by our Board of Directors for more than five years. We have no current plans to pay any dividends on our common stock. We currently expect to use our future earnings, if any, for the development of our businesses or other corporate purposes, which may include share repurchases.
Information regarding compensation plans under which our equity securities may be issued will be included in an amendment to be filed on Form10-K/A not later than April30, 2015.
Share Repurchase Program Since 2006 our Board of Directors has approved multiple authorizations for the repurchase of our common stock. In February 2014 our Board of Directors approved a new authorization for up to $3.5billion for repurchases of our common stock. On May18, 2014, DIRECTV and AT&T entered into a definitive agreement under which DIRECTV will combine with AT&T in a stock-and-cash transaction. As a result, we have suspended the share repurchase program and agreed to not purchase, repurchase, redeem or otherwise acquire any shares of our capital stock without AT&T's consent unless the Merger Agreement is terminated.
During the three months ended December31, 2014 there were no share repurchases.
For additional information regarding our share repurchases see Note15 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in PartII, Item8 of this Annual Report.
40 Table of Contents DIRECTV ITEM 6.SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA Years Ended December31, 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 (Dollars in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts) Consolidated Statements of Operations Data: Revenues $ 33,260 $ 31,754 $ 29,740 $ 27,226 $ 24,102 Total operating costs and expenses 28,132 26,604 24,655 22,597 20,206                  Operating profit $ 5,128 $ 5,150 $ 5,085 $ 4,629 $ 3,896                                                    Net income attributable to DIRECTV $ 2,756 $ 2,859 $ 2,949 $ 2,609 $ 2,198 Basic earnings attributable to DIRECTV common stockholders per common share $ 5.46 $ 5.22 $ 4.62 $ 3.49 $ 2.31 Diluted earnings attributable to DIRECTV common stockholders per common share $ 5.40 $ 5.17 $ 4.58 $ 3.47 $ 2.30 Basic and diluted earnings attributable to DIRECTV ClassB common stockholders per common share, for the period of November19, 2009 through June16, 2010, including $160million exchange inducement value for the Malone Transaction $  $  $  $  $ 8.44 Weighted average number of common shares outstanding (in millions): Basic 505 548 638 747 870 Diluted 510 553 644 752 876 Weighted average number of ClassB common shares outstanding, for the period of November19, 2009 through June16, 2010 (in millions): Basic     22 Diluted     22 Weighted average number of total common shares outstanding (in millions): Basic 505 548 638 747 880 Diluted 510 553 644 752 886 As of December31, 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 (Dollars in Millions) Consolidated Balance Sheets Data: Total assets $ 25,459 $ 21,905 $ 20,555 $ 18,423 $ 17,909 Obligations under capital leases 982 495 528 545 580 Long-term debt 19,485 18,284 17,170 13,464 10,472 Total stockholders' deficit (4,828 ) (6,544 ) (5,431 ) (3,107 ) (194 ) See the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements and Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for additional information regarding significant transactions during each of the three years in the period ended December31, 2014.
41 Table of Contents DIRECTV ITEM 7.MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS CAUTIONARY STATEMENT FOR PURPOSE OF THE "SAFE HARBOR" PROVISIONS OF THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF1995 This Annual Report on Form10-K may contain certain statements that we believe are, or may be considered to be, "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of various provisions of the Securities Act of 1933 and of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These forward-looking statements generally can be identified by use of statements that include phrases such as we "believe," "expect," "estimate," "anticipate," "intend," "plan," "foresee," "project" or other similar references to future periods. Examples of forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements we make related to our business strategy and regarding our outlook for 2015 financial results, liquidity and capital resources.
Forward-looking statements are based on our current expectations and assumptions regarding our business, the economy and other future conditions. Because forward-looking statements relate to the future, they are subject to inherent uncertainties, risks and changes in circumstances that are difficult to predict. Our actual results may differ materially from those contemplated by the forward-looking statements. We caution you therefore against relying on any of these forward-looking statements. They are neither statements of historical fact nor guarantees or assurances of future performance. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements include economic, business, competitive, national or global political, market and regulatory conditions and other risks, each of which is described in more detail in Item1ARisk Factors of this Annual Report.
Any forward looking statement made by us in this Annual Report on Form10-K speaks only as of the date on which it is made. Factors or events that could cause our actual results to differ may occur and it is not possible for us to predict them all. We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise, except as required by law.
CONTENTS The following is a discussion of our results of operations and financial condition. This discussion should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Annual Report. Information in this section is organized as follows:  Summary Results of Operations and Financial Condition  Significant Events Affecting the Comparability of the Results of Operations  Key Terminology  Executive Overview and Outlook  Results of Operations  Liquidity and Capital Resources  Contractual Obligations  Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements  Contingencies  Certain Relationships and Related-Party Transactions  Critical Accounting Estimates 42 Table of Contents DIRECTV SUMMARY RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION Years Ended December31, 2014 2013 2012 (Dollars in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts) Consolidated Statements of Operations Data: Revenues $ 33,260 $ 31,754 $ 29,740 Total operating costs and expenses 28,132 26,604 24,655            Operating profit 5,128 5,150 5,085 Interest income 68 72 59 Interest expense (898 ) (840 ) (842 ) Other, net 150 106 140            Income before income taxes 4,448 4,488 4,442 Income tax expense (1,673 ) (1,603 ) (1,465 )            Net income 2,775 2,885 2,977 Less: Net income attributable to noncontrolling interest (19 ) (26 ) (28 ) Net income attributable to DIRECTV $ 2,756 $ 2,859 $ 2,949                                  Basic earnings attributable to DIRECTV per common share $ 5.46 $ 5.22 $ 4.62 Diluted earnings attributable to DIRECTV per common share $ 5.40 $ 5.17 $ 4.58 Weighted average number of total common shares outstanding (in millions): Basic 505 548 638 Diluted 510 553 644 December31, 2014 2013 (Dollars in Millions) Consolidated Balance Sheets Data: Cash and cash equivalents $ 4,635 $ 2,180 Total current assets 8,819 5,953 Total assets 25,459 21,905 Total current liabilities 6,959 6,530 Long-term debt 19,485 18,284 Redeemable noncontrolling interest  375 Total stockholders' deficit (4,828 ) (6,544 ) Reference should be made to the notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
43 Table of Contents DIRECTV SUMMARY RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION(continued) Years Ended December31, 2014 2013 2012 (Dollars in Millions) Other Data: Operating profit before depreciation and amortization (1) Operating profit $ 5,128 $ 5,150 $ 5,085 Add: Depreciation and amortization expense 2,943 2,828 2,437            Operating profit before depreciation and amortization $ 8,071 $ 7,978 $ 7,522                                  Operating profit before depreciation and amortization margin 24.3 % 25.1 % 25.3 % Cash flow information Net cash provided by operating activities $ 6,369 $ 6,394 $ 5,634 Net cash used in investing activities (3,363 ) (3,753 ) (3,363 ) Net cash used in financing activities (168 ) (2,176 ) (1,242 ) Free cash flow (2) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 6,369 $ 6,394 $ 5,634 Less: Cash paid for property and equipment (2,940 ) (3,409 ) (2,960 ) Less: Cash paid for satellites (285 ) (377 ) (389 )            Free cash flow $ 3,144 $ 2,608 $ 2,285                                  (1) Operating profit before depreciation and amortization, which is a financial measure that is not determined in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, or GAAP, can be calculated by adding amounts under the caption "Depreciation and amortization expense" to "Operating profit." This measure should be used in conjunction with GAAP financial measures and is not presented as an alternative measure of operating results, as determined in accordance with GAAP. Our management and our Board of Directors use operating profit before depreciation and amortization to evaluate the operating performance of our company and our business segments and to allocate resources and capital to business segments. This metric is also used as a measure of performance for incentive compensation purposes and to measure income generated from operations that could be used to fund capital expenditures, service debt or pay taxes. Depreciation and amortization expense primarily represents an allocation to current expense of the cost of historical capital expenditures and for acquired intangible assets resulting from prior business acquisitions. To compensate for the exclusion of depreciation and amortization expense from operating profit, our management and our Board of Directors separately measure and budget for capital expenditures and business acquisitions.
We believe this measure is useful to investors, along with GAAP measures (such as revenues, operating profit and net income), to compare our operating performance to other communications, entertainment and media service providers. We believe that investors use current and projected operating profit before depreciation and amortization and similar measures to estimate our current or prospective enterprise value and make investment decisions. This metric provides investors with a means to compare operating results exclusive of depreciation and amortization expense. Our management believes this is useful given the significant variation in depreciation and amortization expense that can result from the timing of capital expenditures, the capitalization of intangible assets, potential variations in expected useful lives when compared to other companies and periodic changes to estimated useful lives.
Operating profit before depreciation and amortization margin is calculated by dividing Operating profit before depreciation and amortization by Revenues.
44 Table of Contents DIRECTV SUMMARY RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION(continued) (2) Free cash flow, which is a financial measure that is not determined in accordance with GAAP, can be calculated by deducting amounts under the captions "Cash paid for property and equipment" and "Cash paid for satellites" from "Net cash provided by operating activities" from the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. This financial measure should be used in conjunction with other GAAP financial measures and is not presented as an alternative measure of cash flows from operating activities, as determined in accordance with GAAP. Our management and our Board of Directors use free cash flow to evaluate the cash generated by our current subscriber base, net of capital expenditures, for the purpose of allocating resources to activities such as adding new subscribers, retaining and upgrading existing subscribers, for additional capital expenditures and other capital investments or transactions and as a measure of performance for incentive compensation purposes. We believe this measure is useful to investors, along with other GAAP measures (such as cash flows from operating and investing activities), to compare our operating performance to other communications, entertainment and media service providers. We believe that investors also use current and projected free cash flow to determine the ability of revenues from our current and projected subscriber base to fund required and discretionary spending and to help determine our financial value.
45 Table of Contents DIRECTV SUMMARY RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION(continued) Selected Segment Data Revenues Percent of Total Revenues Operating Profit (Loss) Depreciation and Amortization Expense Operating Profit (Loss) Before Depreciation and Amortization Operating Profit Margin Operating Profit Before Depreciation and Amortization Margin (Dollars in Millions) December31, 2014 DIRECTV U.S.
$ 26,001 78.2 % $ 4,749 $ 1,722 $ 6,471 18.3 % 24.9 % Sky Brasil 3,887 11.7 % 488 687 1,175 12.6 % 30.2 % PanAmericana and Other 3,174 9.5 % (46 ) 520 474 NM * 14.9 %                        DIRECTV Latin America 7,061 21.2 % 442 1,207 1,649 6.3 % 23.4 % Sports Networks, Eliminations and Other 198 0.6 % (63 ) 14 (49 ) NM * NM *                        Total $ 33,260 100.0 % $ 5,128 $ 2,943 $ 8,071 15.4 % 24.3 %                                                                      December31, 2013 DIRECTV U.S.
$ 24,676 77.7 % $ 4,444 $ 1,640 $ 6,084 18.0 % 24.7 % Sky Brasil 3,753 11.8 % 529 723 1,252 14.1 % 33.4 % PanAmericana and Other 3,091 9.8 % 247 444 691 8.0 % 22.4 %                        DIRECTV Latin America 6,844 21.6 % 776 1,167 1,943 11.3 % 28.4 % Sports Networks, Eliminations and Other 234 0.7 % (70 ) 21 (49 ) NM * NM *                        Total $ 31,754 100.0 % $ 5,150 $ 2,828 $ 7,978 16.2 % 25.1 %                                                                      December31, 2012 DIRECTV U.S.
$ 23,235 78.1 % $ 4,153 $ 1,501 $ 5,654 17.9 % 24.3 % Sky Brasil 3,501 11.8 % 555 533 1,088 15.9 % 31.1 % PanAmericana and Other 2,743 9.2 % 400 374 774 14.6 % 28.2 %                        DIRECTV Latin America 6,244 21.0 % 955 907 1,862 15.3 % 29.8 % Sports Networks, Eliminations and Other 261 1.0 % (23 ) 29 6 NM * NM *                        Total $ 29,740 100.0 % $ 5,085 $ 2,437 $ 7,522 17.1 % 25.3 %                                                                      * Percentage not meaningful.
46 Table of Contents DIRECTV SUMMARY RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION(continued) The following represents additional selected information for our operating segments as of and for the year ended: Segment Assets Capital Expenditures (Dollars in Millions) December31, 2014 DIRECTV U.S.
$ 16,719 $ 1,757 Sky Brasil 2,654 867 PanAmericana and Other 4,671 580         DIRECTV Latin America 7,325 1,447 Sports Networks, Eliminations and Other 1,415 21         Total $ 25,459 $ 3,225                         December31, 2013 DIRECTV U.S.
$ 13,446 $ 2,050 Sky Brasil 2,854 961 PanAmericana and Other 4,004 759         DIRECTV Latin America 6,858 1,720 Sports Networks, Eliminations and Other 1,601 16         Total $ 21,905 $ 3,786                         December31, 2012 DIRECTV U.S.
$ 12,490 $ 1,741 Sky Brasil 2,951 812 PanAmericana and Other 3,335 786         DIRECTV Latin America 6,286 1,598 Sports Networks, Eliminations and Other 1,779 10         Total $ 20,555 $ 3,349                         47 Table of Contents DIRECTV SIGNIFICANT EVENTS AFFECTING THE COMPARABILITY OF THE RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Venezuelan Devaluation and Foreign Currency Exchange Controls Companies operating in Venezuela are required to obtain Venezuelan government approval to exchange Venezuelan bolivars into U.S. dollars and such approval has not consistently been granted for several years. Consequently, our ability to pay U.S. dollar denominated obligations and repatriate cash generated in Venezuela in excess of local operating requirements is limited, which has resulted in increases in the cash balance at our Venezuelan subsidiary, and limited our ability to import set-top receivers and other equipment, limiting the growth of our business in Venezuela.
In February 2013, the Venezuelan government announced a devaluation of the Venezuelan bolivar from the official exchange rate of 4.3 Venezuelan bolivars per U.S. dollar to an official rate of 6.3 Venezuelan bolivars per U.S. dollar. As a result of the devaluation, we recorded a pre-tax charge in "Venezuelan currency devaluation charge" in the Consolidated Statements of Operations of $166million ($136million after tax) in the first quarter of 2013, related to the remeasurement of the bolivar denominated net monetary assets of our Venezuelan subsidiary as of the date of the devaluation.
In the first quarter of 2013, the Venezuelan government announced a new currency exchange system, the Sistema Complementario de Administracin de Divisas, or SICAD 1, which is intended to function as an auction system for participants to exchange Venezuelan bolivars for U.S. dollars. The volume of amounts exchanged through such SICAD 1 system and the resulting exchange rate are published by the Venezuelan Central Bank. Effective January24, 2014, the Venezuelan government announced that dividends and royalties would be subject to the SICAD 1 program. The SICAD 1 exchange rate, which was 12.0 Venezuelan bolivars per U.S. dollar as of December31, 2014, is determined by periodic auctions. In February 2014, the Venezuelan government announced SICAD 2, which is an exchange mechanism that became available on March24, 2014. The exchange rate for SICAD 2 was 49.99 Venezuelan bolivars per U.S. dollar as of December31, 2014. Additionally, in February 2015, the Venezuelan government announced that the SICAD 2 exchange mechanism would no longer be available and created SIMADI, a new open market currency exchange system.
We currently believe the SICAD 1 rate is the most representative rate to use for remeasurement, as the official rate of 6.3 Venezuelan bolivars per U.S. dollar will likely be reserved only for the settlement of U.S. dollar denominated obligations related to purchases of "essential goods and services," and the equity of our Venezuelan subsidiary would be realized, if at all, through permitted dividends paid at the SICAD 1 rate. Therefore, as of December31, 2014, we are continuing to remeasure our Venezuelan subsidiary's financial statements in U.S. dollars using the exchange rate determined by periodic auctions under SICAD 1, which was 12.0 Venezuelan bolivars per U.S. dollar. Prior to March31, 2014, we used the official exchange rate of 6.3 Venezuelan bolivars per U.S. dollar. As a result of the devaluation, we recorded a pre-tax charge in "Venezuelan currency devaluation charge" in the Consolidated Statements of Operations of $281million in the first quarter of 2014, related to the remeasurement of the bolivar denominated net monetary assets of our Venezuelan subsidiary on March31, 2014.
As of December31, 2014, our Venezuelan subsidiary had Venezuelan bolivar denominated net monetary assets of $481million, including cash of $481million, based on the SICAD 1 exchange rate of 12.0 Venezuelan bolivars per U.S. dollar. In 2014, our Venezuelan subsidiary generated revenues of approximately $900million and operating profit before depreciation and amortization of approximately $400million, excluding the impact of the $281million Venezuelan devaluation charge, as well as the impact of additional exchange rate losses in Venezuela recorded during 2014. The exchange rate used to report net monetary assets and operating results of our Venezuelan subsidiary is currently based on the results of periodic SICAD 1 auctions, which is expected to result in fluctuations in reported amounts that could be material to the results of operations in Venezuela in future periods and could materially affect the comparability of results for our Venezuelan subsidiary between periods. The comparability of our results of operations and financial position in Venezuela will also be affected in the event of additional changes to the currency exchange rate system, further devaluations of the Venezuelan 48 Table of Contents DIRECTV bolivar or if we determine in the future that a rate other than the SICAD 1 rate is appropriate for the remeasurement of our Venezuelan bolivar denominated net monetary assets.
Foreign Currency Exchange Rates The comparability of our results of operations is impacted by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and the volatility of those foreign currencies has an ongoing impact to our operating results. See "Foreign Currency Risk" in Item7A "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk" for further information.
ECAD As previously reported, Escritorio Central de Arrecadacao, or ECAD, the organization responsible for collecting performance rights fees under Brazilian law, had outstanding claims against Sky Brasil, along with other video distributors in Brazil. In the third quarter of 2013, Sky Brasil entered into an agreement with ECAD whereby Sky Brasil agreed to settle all claims for the period from 2004 through December31, 2013 for a cash payment of $92million in September 2013. As a result of this settlement, Sky Brasil recognized a $128million pre-tax gain from the reversal of amounts previously accrued during such period, of which $70million was recorded as a reduction in "Broadcast programming and other", $37million was recorded as a reduction in "Interest expense" and $21million was recorded in "Other, net" in the Consolidated Statements of Operations.
Divestitures On April16, 2013, DSN transferred 100% of its interest in DSN Northwest to NW Sports NetLLC. Upon completion of the transaction, the Seattle Mariners have a majority interest in NW SportsLLC and DSN retains a noncontrolling interest, which we account for using the equity method of accounting. Additionally, DSN provides management oversight and programming services to NW Sports NetLLC as part of management service agreements entered into as part of this transaction. As a result of this transaction, we deconsolidated DSN Northwest and recorded a non-cash, pre-tax charge of approximately $59million ($56million after tax) in "Other, net" in the Consolidated Statements of Operations.
In December 2012, we sold an 18% interest in GSN to our equity partner for $234million, reducing our ownership interest from 60% to 42%. We recognized a pre-tax gain of $111million ($68million after tax) on the sale in "Other, net" in the Consolidated Statements of Operations.
For additional information regarding the sale of investments, refer to Note8 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item8, PartII of this Annual Report.
Share Repurchase Program Since 2006 our Board of Directors has approved multiple authorizations for the repurchase of our common stock. In February 2014 our Board of Directors approved a new authorization for up to $3.5billion for repurchases of our common stock. On May18, 2014 DIRECTV and AT&T entered into a definitive agreement, under which AT&T would combine with DIRECTV in a stock and cash transaction. As a result, we have suspended the share repurchase program and agreed to not purchase, repurchase, redeem or otherwise acquire any shares of our capital stock during the pendency of the proposed transaction and without AT&T's consent.
49 Table of Contents DIRECTV The following table sets forth information regarding shares repurchased and retired during the periods presented: 2014 2013 2012 (Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts) Total cost of repurchased and retired shares $ 1,386 $ 4,000 $ 5,148 Average price per share $ 73.82 $ 57.54 $ 48.24 Number of shares repurchased and retired 19 70 107 AT&T Merger-Related Costs On May18, 2014, DIRECTV and AT&TInc., or AT&T, announced that they entered into a definitive agreement under which DIRECTV will combine with AT&T in a stock and cash transaction. The Agreement and Plan of Merger, which was included as Exhibit2.1 to the Form8-K filed with the SEC on May19, 2014, or the Merger Agreement, was approved unanimously by the Board of Directors of each company and was approved by our stockholders at a special meeting held on September25, 2014.
In connection with the proposed merger, we recognized costs of $72million for the year ended December31, 2014 in "General and administrative expenses" in the Consolidated Statements of Operations, primarily related to professional services fees. These costs are reported in the "Sports Networks, Eliminations and Other" segment.
KEY TERMINOLOGY Revenues.
We earn revenues mostly from monthly fees we charge subscribers for subscriptions to basic and premium channel programming, advanced receiver fees (which include HD, DVR and multi-roomviewing), seasonal live sporting events and pay-per-view programming. We also earn revenues from monthly fees we charge subscribers for multiple set-top receivers, hardware revenues from subscribers who lease or purchase set-top receivers from us, warranty service fees and advertising services. Revenues are reported net of customer credits and discounted promotions.
Broadcast Programming and Other.
These costs primarily include license fees for subscription service programming, pay-per-view programming, seasonal live sporting and other events. Other costs include continuing service fees paid to third parties for active subscribers and warranty service costs.
Subscriber Service Expenses.
Subscriber service expenses include the costs of customer call centers, billing, remittance processing and service calls.
Broadcast Operations Expenses.
These expenses include broadcast center operating costs, signal transmission expenses (including costs of collecting signals for our local channel offerings), and costs of monitoring, maintaining and insuring our satellites. Also included are engineering expenses associated with deterring theft of our signal.
Subscriber Acquisition Costs.
These costs include the cost of set-top receivers and other equipment, commissions we pay to national retailers, independent satellite television retailers, dealers and telcos, and the cost of installation, advertising, marketing and customer call center expenses associated with the acquisition of new subscribers. Set-top receivers leased to new subscribers are capitalized in "Property and equipment, net" in the Consolidated Balance Sheets and depreciated over their useful lives. In certain countries in Latin America, where our customer agreements provide for the lease of the entire DIRECTV or SKY System, we also capitalize the costs of the other customer premises equipment and related installation costs. The amount of set-top receivers capitalized each period for subscriber acquisitions is included in "Cash paid for property and equipment" in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.
50 Table of Contents DIRECTV Upgrade and Retention Costs.
Upgrade and retention costs are associated with upgrade efforts for existing subscribers that we believe will result in higher average monthly revenue per subscriber, or ARPU, and lower churn. Our upgrade efforts include subscriber equipment upgrade programs for advanced receivers and similar initiatives. Retention costs also include the costs of installing and providing hardware under our movers program for subscribers relocating to a new residence. Set-top receivers leased to existing subscribers under upgrade and retention programs are capitalized in "Property and equipment, net" in the Consolidated Balance Sheets and depreciated over their estimated useful lives. The amount of set-top receivers capitalized each period for upgrade and retention programs is included in "Cash paid for property and equipment" in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.
General and Administrative Expenses.
General and administrative expenses include departmental costs for legal, administrative services, finance, marketing and information technology. These costs also include expenses for bad debt and other operating expenses, such as legal settlements, and gains or losses from the sale or disposal of fixed assets.
Average Monthly Revenue Per Subscriber.
We calculate ARPU by dividing average monthly revenues, net of customer credits and discounted promotions, for the period (total revenues during the period divided by the number of months in the period) by average subscribers for the period. We calculate average subscribers for the period by adding the number of subscribers as of the beginning of the period and for each quarter end in the current year or period and dividing by the sum of the number of quarters in the period plus one.
Average Monthly Subscriber Churn.
Average monthly subscriber churn represents the number of subscribers whose service is disconnected, expressed as a percentage of the average total number of subscribers. We calculate average monthly subscriber churn by dividing the average monthly number of disconnected subscribers for the period (total subscribers disconnected, net of reconnects, during the period divided by the number of months in the period) by average subscribers for the period.
Subscriber Count.
The total number of subscribers represents the total number of subscribers actively subscribing to our service, including subscribers who have suspended their account for a particular season of the year because they are temporarily away from their primary residence and subscribers who are in the process of relocating and commercial equivalent viewing units.
SAC.
We calculate SAC, which represents total subscriber acquisition costs stated on a per subscriber basis, by dividing total subscriber acquisition costs for the period by the number of gross new subscribers acquired during the period. We calculate total subscriber acquisition costs for the period by adding together "Subscriber acquisition costs" expensed during the period and the amount of cash paid for equipment leased to new subscribers during the period.
EXECUTIVE OVERVIEW AND OUTLOOK Please refer to "Risk Factors" in Item1A for a discussion of risks that may affect forecasted results of our business generally.
DIRECTV U.S.
DIRECTV U.S. faces challenges related to the rapid advance of technology that provides consumers with more options both in and out of the home and an industry that is increasingly competitive. In addition, programming content providers are continuing to seek increased rates for their content that is well above inflation, making it more challenging to pass these costs through to our customers.
Revenue growth at DIRECTV U.S. has been generated by an increase in ARPU and growth of our subscriber base. In 2015, we expect revenue to increase in the mid-single digit percentage range driven primarily by ARPU growth. We also could experience a modest decline in our cumulative subscriber base in 2015, if the AT&T merger is not completed.
51 Table of Contents DIRECTV In 2015, we expect operating profit before depreciation and amortization to grow in the low-single digit percentage range. We expect to continue to be challenged by rising broadcast programming costs; however we intend to manage the impact to our margins by raising prices, increasing the penetration of new and advanced services, as well as driving growth in ancillary revenues such as commercial and ad sales. We also expect to continue productivity improvements, which are expected to reduce costs and improve call center performance, field operations and customer satisfaction. We also expect a greater use of refurbished set-top boxes in 2015. As these costs are expensed, we expect lower margins but also lower capital expenditures.
We expect total capital expenditures in 2015 to decrease approximately $200million at DIRECTV U.S from $1.75billion in 2014, primarily due to a reduction in gross additions, a higher use of refurbished set-top receivers and lower set-top receiver costs.
DIRECTV Latin America.
Some Latin American countries in which we operate continue to undergo a period of economic uncertainty. We remain committed to our strategy to profitably grow our business across the region in spite of these challenging macroeconomic conditions. Consistent with our strategy in 2014, we are focused on delivering market-leading advanced services for a growing premium subscriber base, and leveraging our scale to further penetrate and profitably serve the rapidly growing mass market. We also intend to improve productivity, while managing our capital investments and cost structure.
In 2015, we expect gross subscriber additions to decline to about 2 million in Brazil and between 1.5 million and 1.6 million in PanAmericana, excluding Venezuela, mainly due to the lack of the World Cup soccer tournament in 2015. The lower gross additions are expected to reduce net subscriber additions to about 500,000 at DIRECTV Latin America, excluding Venezuela, with net subscriber additions lower both at Sky Brasil and PanAmericana as compared to 2014.
Excluding the impact of $346million in charges related to 2014 Venezuelan currency devaluation, as well as any future devaluation of the Venezuelan bolivar, we expect revenues and operating profit before depreciation and amortization to decline in the low-single digit percentage range in 2015. We have assumed further depreciation of some of the major currencies, but our results are highly volatile depending on changes in foreign currency exchange rates, particularly in Argentina, Brazil and Venezuela, as well as changes in the macroeconomic environment. We expect capital expenditures in Latin America to be approximately $1.45billion, which includes capital expenditures related to subscribers, investments in upgrading DIRECTV Latin America's infrastructure, including satellites and related broadcast facilities, as well as strategic initiatives such as wireless broadband.
DIRECTV Consolidated.
Excluding expected merger related costs in 2015, we anticipate earnings per common share to increase approximately ten percent from the $5.46 earnings per share reported in 2014 resulting mainly from higher operating profit, partially offset by increased income tax expenses. As discussed above, these estimates are highly volatile depending on changes in foreign currency exchange rates, as well as changes in the macroeconomic and political environment in Latin America.
We also anticipate free cash flow, or cash provided by operating activities less capital expenditures, to increase in the low single digit percentage range from the $3.1billion generated in 2014, excluding expected merger related costs in 2015.
52 Table of Contents DIRECTV RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Year Ended December31, 2014 Compared with the Year Ended December31, 2013 DIRECTV U.S. Results of Operations The following table provides operating results and a summary of key subscriber data for the DIRECTV U.S. segment: Change 2014 2013 $ % (Dollars in Millions, Except Per Subscriber Amounts) Revenues $ 26,001 $ 24,676 $ 1,325 5.4 % Operating costs and expenses Costs of revenues, exclusive of depreciation and amortization expense Broadcast programming and other 12,343 11,616 727 6.3 % Subscriber service expenses 1,519 1,474 45 3.1 % Broadcast operations expenses 303 293 10 3.4 % Selling, general and administrative expenses, exclusive of depreciation and amortization expense Subscriber acquisition costs 2,853 2,642 211 8.0 % Upgrade and retention costs 1,276 1,350 (74 ) (5.5 )% General and administrative expenses 1,236 1,217 19 1.6 % Depreciation and amortization expense 1,722 1,640 82 5.0 %               Total operating costs and expenses 21,252 20,232 1,020 5.0 %               Operating profit $ 4,749 $ 4,444 $ 305 6.9 %                                           Operating profit margin 18.3 % 18.0 %   Other data: Operating profit before depreciation and amortization $ 6,471 $ 6,084 $ 387 6.4 % Operating profit before depreciation and amortization margin 24.9 % 24.7 %   Total number of subscribers (in thousands) 20,352 20,253 99 0.5 % ARPU $ 106.94 $ 102.18 $ 4.76 4.7 % Average monthly subscriber churn % 1.52 % 1.50 %  1.3 % Gross subscriber additions (in thousands) 3,804 3,790 14 0.4 % Subscriber disconnections (in thousands) 3,705 3,621 84 2.3 % Net subscriber additions (in thousands) 99 169 (70 ) (41.4 )% Average subscriber acquisition costsper subscriber (SAC) $ 883 $ 873 $ 10 1.1 % Capital expenditures: Property and equipment $ 726 $ 648 $ 78 12.0 % Subscriber leased equipmentsubscriber acquisitions 507 666 (159 ) (23.9 )% Subscriber leased equipmentupgrade and retention 451 538 (87 ) (16.2 )% Satellites 73 198 (125 ) (63.1 )%               Total capital expenditures $ 1,757 $ 2,050 $ (293 ) (14.3 )%                                           Depreciation expensesubscriber leased equipment $ 967 $ 922 $ 45 4.9 % Subscribers.
In 2014, net subscriber additions decreased as compared to 2013 as slightly higher gross subscriber additions were offset by higher average monthly churn. The higher average monthly churn was 53 Table of Contents DIRECTV primarily due to a more competitive environment including an increased number of subscribers electing to eliminate MVPD services.
Revenues.
DIRECTV U.S. revenues increased in 2014 as a result of higher ARPU and a larger subscriber base. The increase in ARPU resulted primarily from price increases on programming packages, higher advanced receiver service fees, higher fees for our enhanced warranty program, as well as higher ad sales and commercial revenues, partially offset by increased promotional offers for new and existing customers.
Operating profit before depreciation and amortization.
Operating profit before depreciation and amortization increased in 2014 as compared to 2013 primarily due to higher revenues coupled with lower upgrade and retention costs, partially offset by higher broadcast programming and other costs and higher subscriber acquisition costs. Upgrade and retention costs decreased primarily due to lower equipment costs. Broadcast programming and other costs increased primarily due to annual program supplier rate increases. Subscriber acquisition costs increased primarily due to an increase in promotional offers targeted at higher quality subscribers and an increase in the use of refurbished equipment.
Operating profit before depreciation and amortization margin increased in 2014 as compared to 2013 primarily due to the higher revenues coupled with lower upgrade and retention costs, as well as slower relative growth in general and administrative expenses, partially offset by higher broadcast programming and other costs.
Operating profit.
Operating profit and operating profit margin increased in 2014 compared to 2013 due to an increase in operating profit before depreciation and amortization and operating profit before depreciation and amortization margin, partially offset by an increase in depreciation and amortization expense due to higher total capitalized subscriber leased equipment.
54 Table of Contents DIRECTV DIRECTV Latin America Results of Operations The following table provides operating results and a summary of key subscriber data for the consolidated DIRECTV Latin America operations, which does not include Sky Mexico: Change 2014 2013 $ % (Dollars in Millions, Except Per Subscriber Amounts) Revenues $ 7,061 $ 6,844 $ 217 3.2 % Operating profit before depreciation and amortization (1) 1,649 1,943 (294 ) (15.1 )% Operating profit before depreciation and amortization margin(1) 23.4 % 28.4 %   Operating profit(1) $ 442 $ 776 $ (334 ) (43.0 )% Operating profit margin(1) 6.3 % 11.3 %   Other data: ARPU (2) $ 48.39 $ 51.64 $ (3.25 ) (6.3 )% Average monthly total subscriber churn % (2) 2.39 % 2.37 %  0.8 % Average monthly post paid subscriber churn % (2) 1.95 % 2.10 %  (7.1 )% Total number of subscribers (in thousands)(2)(3) 12,471 11,568 903 7.8 % Gross subscriber additions (in thousands)(3)(4) 4,395 4,382 13 0.3 % Net subscriber additions (in thousands)(2)(3)(4) 903 1,239 (336 ) (27.1 )% Capital expenditures: Property and equipment $ 254 $ 224 $ 30 13.4 % Subscriber leased equipmentsubscriber acquisitions 666 923 (257 ) (27.8 )% Subscriber leased equipmentupgrade and retention 337 409 (72 ) (17.6 )% Satellites 190 164 26 15.9 %               Total capital expenditures $ 1,447 $ 1,720 $ (273 ) (15.9 )%                                           (1) Amounts include the impact of the Venezuelan devaluation charge of $281million recorded in the first quarter of 2014 and $166million recorded in the first quarter of 2013, as well as the ongoing impact of foreign currency exchange fluctuations.
(2) Based on the results of an internal investigation, we determined that, beginning in 2012, certain employees of Sky Brasil directed activities which were inconsistent with Sky Brasil's authorized policies for subscriber retention and churn management. These activities had the effect of artificially reducing churn and increasing the Sky Brasil subscriber base during portions of 2013. As a result, subscribers who would have previously ceased receiving Sky Brasil service were terminated as subscribers pursuant to Sky Brasil's authorized policies. We estimate that as of March31, 2013, our subscriber count would have been approximately 200,000 lower than the number of subscribers previously reported if the identified improper actions had not been taken. See the Current Report on Form8-K filed with the SEC on June27, 2013 for further details.
(3) DIRECTV Latin America subscriber data excludes subscribers on the Sky Mexico platform.
(4) Gross and net subscriber additions exclude 1,000 subscribers acquired in transactions in Brazil during 2013.
55 Table of Contents DIRECTV Sky Brasil Results of Operations The following table provides operating results and a summary of key subscriber data for the consolidated Sky Brasil operations: Change 2014 2013 $ % (Dollars in Millions, Except Per Subscriber Amounts) Revenues $ 3,887 $ 3,753 $ 134 3.6 % Operating profit before depreciation and amortization 1,175 1,252 (77 ) (6.2 )% Operating profit before depreciation and amortization margin 30.2 % 33.4 %   Operating profit $ 488 $ 529 $ (41 ) (7.8 )% Operating profit margin 12.6 % 14.1 %   Other data: ARPU $ 58.35 $ 59.97 $ (1.62 ) (2.7 )% Total number of subscribers (in thousands) (1) 5,643 5,371 272 5.1 % Total capital expenditures $ 867 $ 961 $ (94 ) (9.8 )% (1) See Note(2) on the table showing consolidated DIRECTV Latin America results of operations above.
Subscribers.
In 2014, net subscriber additions of approximately 272,000 decreased as the higher gross subscriber additions were more than offset by higher subscriber disconnections associated with the larger subscriber base, as well as slightly higher average monthly total subscriber churn in 2014. The increase in gross subscriber additions was driven primarily by higher demand for FIFA World Cup. Average monthly subscriber churn increased due the introduction of the prepaid service, a reduction in credits to existing subscribers and challenging macroeconomic conditions, as well as the migration of key systems that impacted existing subscribers.
Revenues.
Revenues increased in 2014 as compared to 2013 due to subscriber growth partially offset by a decrease in ARPU. The decrease in ARPU was primarily due to unfavorable exchange rates, partially offset by higher ARPU in local currency terms, which resulted from a reduction in promotional offers to subscribers and an increase in subscribers with advanced services.
Operating profit before depreciation and amortization.
Operating profit before depreciation and amortization and operating profit before depreciation and amortization margin decreased in 2014 as compared to 2013, as the higher revenues were more than offset by higher broadcast programming and other costs mainly due to the settlement of the ECAD dispute. Also impacting operating profit before depreciation and amortization and operating profit before depreciation and amortization margin were higher expenses resulting from the introduction of a new broadband service and costs associated with the migration of key systems.
Operating profit.
Operating profit and operating profit margin decreased in 2014 as compared to 2013, primarily due to the decrease in operating profit before depreciation expense and operating profit before depreciation expense margin partially offset by lower depreciation and amortization expense due to changes in foreign exchange rates.
56 Table of Contents DIRECTV PanAmericana and Other Results of Operations The following table provides operating results and a summary of key subscriber data for the consolidated DIRECTV PanAmericana and Other operations: Change 2014 2013 $ % (Dollars in Millions, Except Per Subscriber Amounts) Revenues $ 3,174 $ 3,091 $ 83 2.7 % Operating profit before depreciation and amortization(1) 474 691 (217 ) (31.4 )% Operating profit before depreciation and amortization margin(1) 14.9 % 22.4 %   Operating profit (loss)(1) $ (46 ) $ 247 $ (293 ) (118.6 )% Operating profit margin(1) NM* 8.0 %   Other data: ARPU $ 40.03 $ 44.19 $ (4.16 ) (9.4 )% Total number of subscribers (in thousands) 6,828 6,197 631 10.2 % Total capital expenditures $ 580 $ 759 $ (179 ) (23.6 )% * Percentage not meaningful.
(1) Amounts include the impact of the Venezuelan devaluation charges of $281million recorded in the first quarter of 2014 and $166million recorded in the first quarter of 2013, as well as the ongoing impact of foreign currency exchange fluctuations.
Subscribers.
In 2014, net subscriber additions of 631,000 decreased primarily due to higher average monthly subscriber churn and lower gross subscriber additions. Gross subscriber additions decreased primarily from tighter sales filters resulting from challenging macroeconomic conditions. Average monthly subscriber churn increased slightly due to a higher mix of subscribers on the prepaid service.
Revenues.
Revenues increased in 2014 as compared to 2013 due to subscriber growth, partially offset by a decrease in ARPU. The decrease in ARPU was primarily due to unfavorable exchange rates, primarily in Venezuela and Argentina and a higher penetration of mass market subscribers, partially offset by price increases and an increase in subscribers with advanced services.
Operating profit before depreciation and amortization.
Operating profit before depreciation and amortization and operating profit before amortization margin decreased in 2014 as compared to 2013, primarily in Venezuela as a result of the $346million devaluation charge of which $281million was recorded in "Venezuelan currency devaluation charge" and $65million was recorded in "General administrative expenses" in the Consolidated Statement of Operations related to the remeasurement of Venezuelan bolivar denominated net monetary assets in 2014 as compared to the $166million charge recorded in "Venezuelan devaluation charge" in the Consolidated Statements of Operations in 2013. Also contributing to the decrease were unfavorable exchange rates in Argentina, as well as higher broadcast programming costs associated with special events, including the FIFA World Cup and the impact of inflation and the timing of price increases in Venezuela.
Operating profit.
Operating profit and operating profit margin decreased in 2014 as compared to 2013, due to the decrease in operating profit before depreciation and amortization and operating profit before depreciation and amortization margin, as well as an increase in depreciation and amortization expense due to subscriber leased equipment and infrastructure costs capitalized over the last year.
DIRECTV Consolidated Other Income, Income Taxes and Net Income Attributable to Noncontrolling Interest Interest income.
Interest income was $68million in 2014 and $72million in 2013.
57 Table of Contents DIRECTV Interest expense.
The increase in interest expense to $898million in 2014 from $840million in 2013 was a result of a higher average debt balance, partially offset by the settlement of the ECAD dispute in 2013. We capitalized interest costs of $35million in 2014 and $41million in 2013.
Other, net.
The significant components of "Other, net" were as follows: 2014 2013 Change (Dollars in Millions) Equity in earnings from unconsolidated affiliates(1) $ 133 $ 198 $ (65 ) Interest rate swap gain 39  39 Net gains from sale of investments 26 8 18 Net foreign currency transaction loss (22 ) (52 ) 30 Loss on early extinguishment of debt (19 )  (19 ) Other (4 ) (3 ) (1 ) Fair-value loss on non-employee stock options (3 ) (7 ) 4 DSN Northwest deconsolidation charge  (59 ) 59 ECAD settlement gain  21 (21 )            Total $ 150 $ 106 $ 44                                  (1)Includes an increase in equity earnings from Sky Mexico of approximately $60million related to the recognition of certain one-time tax benefits in 2013.
Income tax expense.
We recognized income tax expense of $1,673million in 2014 and $1,603million in 2013. The effective tax rate for 2014 was 37.6% compared to 35.7% for 2013. The higher effective tax rate in 2014 is primarily attributable to the unfavorable tax impact of the Venezuela currency devaluation and benefits recorded in 2013 for the recognition of uncertain tax benefits due to the expiration of the statute of limitations in federal and foreign tax jurisdictions and the settlement of state-related matters.
Net income attributable to noncontrolling interest.
Net income attributable to noncontrolling interest was $19million in 2014 and $26million in 2013.
Earnings Per Share Earnings per share and weighted shares outstanding were as follows for the years ended December31: 2014 2013 Basic earnings attributable to DIRECTV per common share $ 5.46 $ 5.22 Diluted earnings attributable to DIRECTV per common share $ 5.40 $ 5.17 Weighted average number of common shares outstanding (in millions): Basic 505 548 Diluted 510 553 The increases in basic and diluted earnings per share were due to a reduction in weighted average shares outstanding resulting from our share repurchase program, partially offset by lower net income attributable to DIRECTV.
58 Table of Contents DIRECTV Year Ended December31, 2013 Compared with the Year Ended December31, 2012 DIRECTV U.S. Results of Operations The following table provides operating results and a summary of key subscriber data for the DIRECTV U.S. segment: Change 2013 2012 $ % (Dollars in Millions, Except Per Subscriber Amounts) Revenues $ 24,676 $ 23,235 $ 1,441 6.2 % Operating costs and expenses Costs of revenues, exclusive of depreciation and amortization expense Broadcast programming and other 11,616 10,743 873 8.1 % Subscriber service expenses 1,474 1,464 10 0.7 % Broadcast operations expenses 293 306 (13 ) (4.2 )% Selling, general and administrative expenses, exclusive of depreciation and amortization expense Subscriber acquisition costs 2,642 2,673 (31 ) (1.2 )% Upgrade and retention costs 1,350 1,253 97 7.7 % General and administrative expenses 1,217 1,142 75 6.6 % Depreciation and amortization expense 1,640 1,501 139 9.3 %               Total operating costs and expenses 20,232 19,082 1,150 6.0 %               Operating profit $ 4,444 $ 4,153 $ 291 7.0 %                                           Operating profit margin 18.0 % 17.9 %   Other data: Operating profit before depreciation and amortization $ 6,084 $ 5,654 $ 430 7.6 % Operating profit before depreciation and amortization margin 24.7 % 24.3 %   Total number of subscribers (in thousands) 20,253 20,084 169 0.8 % ARPU $ 102.18 $ 96.98 $ 5.20 5.4 % Average monthly subscriber churn % 1.50 % 1.53 %  (2.0 )% Gross subscriber additions (in thousands) 3,790 3,874 (84 ) (2.2 )% Subscriber disconnections (in thousands) 3,621 3,675 (54 ) (1.5 )% Net subscriber additions (in thousands) 169 199 (30 ) (15.1 )% Average subscriber acquisition costsper subscriber (SAC) $ 873 $ 859 $ 14 1.6 % Capital expenditures: Property and equipment $ 648 $ 541 $ 107 19.8 % Subscriber leased equipmentsubscriber acquisitions 666 656 10 1.5 % Subscriber leased equipmentupgrade and retention 538 291 247 84.9 % Satellites 198 253 (55 ) (21.7 )%               Total capital expenditures $ 2,050 $ 1,741 $ 309 17.7 %                                           Depreciation expensesubscriber leased equipment $ 922 $ 815 $ 107 13.1 % Subscribers.
In 2013, net subscriber additions decreased due to lower gross subscriber additions associated with a continued focus on attaining higher quality subscribers, as well as a more challenging competitive environment and a decline in aggregate subscribers across the MVPD industry. This decrease was partially offset by lower average monthly subscriber churn in 2013. In 2012, average monthly churn was unfavorably impacted by a contract dispute with a large programmer that resulted in the removal of several channels from our service 59 Table of Contents DIRECTV for nine days. The lower average monthly churn was also due to a greater number of subscribers on contract commitments and auto-bill pay, as well as stricter credit policies in 2013.
Revenues.
DIRECTV U.S. revenues increased in 2013 as a result of higher ARPU and the larger subscriber base. The increase in ARPU resulted primarily from higher advanced receiver service fees, price increases on programming packages, higher fees for our new enhanced warranty program, as well as higher commercial and ad sales revenues, partially offset by increased promotional offers to new and existing subscribers.
Operating profit before depreciation and amortization.
Operating profit before depreciation and amortization increased in 2013 as compared to 2012 primarily due to higher revenues and lower subscriber acquisition costs, partially offset by higher broadcast programming and other costs, higher upgrade and retention costs and higher general and administrative costs. Subscriber acquisition costs decreased primarily due to the decrease in gross subscriber additions. SAC per subscriber, which includes the cost of capitalized set-top receivers, increased primarily due to an increase in subscriber demand for advanced products and higher marketing costs per subscriber added. Broadcast programming and other costs increased primarily due to annual program supplier rate increases, a larger subscriber base and increased costs associated with providing the expanded warranty program. Upgrade and retention costs increased in 2013 as compared to 2012 primarily due to a larger number of subscriber upgrades to advanced products related to customer loyalty initiatives. General and administrative costs increased primarily as a result of higher labor costs.
Operating profit before depreciation and amortization margin increased in 2013 as compared to 2012 driven by the incremental margin generated by higher revenues combined with lower subscriber acquisition costs and mostly unchanged subscriber service expenses. Subscriber service expenses remained relatively unchanged due to continued improvement and efficiency initiatives. These margin improvements were partially offset by relatively higher broadcast programming costs mostly related to annual supplier rate increases.
Operating profit.
Operating profit and operating profit margin increased in 2013 compared to 2012 due to an increase in operating profit before depreciation and amortization and operating profit before depreciation and amortization margin, partially offset by an increase in depreciation and amortization expense due to higher total capitalized subscriber leased equipment.
60 Table of Contents DIRECTV DIRECTV Latin America Results of Operations The following table provides operating results and a summary of key subscriber data for the consolidated DIRECTV Latin America operations: Change 2013 2012 $ % (Dollars in Millions, Except Per Subscriber Amounts) Revenues $ 6,844 $ 6,244 $ 600 9.6 % Operating profit before depreciation and amortization 1,943 1,862 81 4.4 % Operating profit before depreciation and amortization margin 28.4 % 29.8 %   Operating profit $ 776 $ 955 $ (179 ) (18.7 )% Operating profit margin 11.3 % 15.3 %   Other data: ARPU $ 51.64 $ 57.25 $ (5.61 ) (9.8 )% Average monthly total subscriber churn % 2.37 % 1.81 %  30.9 % Average monthly post-paid subscriber churn % 2.10 % 1.50 %  40.0 % Total number of subscribers (in thousands) (1)(2) 11,568 10,328 1,240 12.0 % Gross subscriber additions (in thousands) (1)(2) 4,382 4,417 (35 ) (0.8 )% Net subscriber additions (in thousands) (1)(2) 1,239 2,439 (1,200 ) (49.2 )% Capital expenditures: Property and equipment $ 224 $ 214 $ 10 4.7 % Subscriber leased equipmentsubscriber acquisitions 923 837 86 10.3 % Subscriber leased equipmentupgrade and retention 409 419 (10 ) (2.4 )% Satellites 164 128 36 28.1 %               Total capital expenditures $ 1,720 $ 1,598 $ 122 7.6 %                                           (1) These amounts include the impact of the $166million Venezuelan devaluation charge and the ongoing impact of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations.
(2) Based on the results of an internal investigation, we have determined that, beginning in 2012, certain employees of Sky Brasil directed activities which are inconsistent with Sky Brasil's authorized policies for subscriber retention and churn management. These activities had the effect of artificially reducing churn and increasing the Sky Brasil subscriber base during portions of 2012 and 2013. As a result, subscribers who would have previously ceased receiving Sky Brasil service have been terminated as subscribers pursuant to Sky Brasil's authorized policies. We estimate that as of March31, 2013, our subscriber count would have been approximately 200,000 lower than the number of subscribers previously reported if the identified improper actions had not been taken. See the Current Report on Form8-K filed with the SEC on June27, 2013 for further details. Prior year results for subscribers, churn and ARPU have not been adjusted for the findings of this investigation.
(3) DIRECTV Latin America subscriber data exclude the subscribers of the Sky Mexico platform.
(4) Gross and net subscriber additions exclude 1,000 subscribers acquired in transactions in Brazil during 2013 and 18,000 subscribers acquired in transactions in Brazil during 2012.
61 Table of Contents DIRECTV Sky Brasil Results of Operations The following table provides operating results and a summary of key subscriber data for the consolidated Sky Brasil operations: Change 2013 2012 $ % (Dollars in Millions, Except Per Subscriber Amounts) Revenues $ 3,753 $ 3,501 $ 252 7.2 % Operating profit before depreciation and amortization 1,252 1,088 164 15.1 % Operating profit before depreciation and amortization margin 33.4 % 31.1 %   Operating profit $ 529 $ 555 $ (26 ) (4.7 )% Operating profit margin 14.1 % 15.9 %   Other data: ARPU $ 59.97 $ 65.68 $ (5.71 ) (8.7 )% Total number of subscribers (in thousands) (1) 5,371 5,038 333 6.6 % Total capital expenditures $ 961 $ 812 $ 149 18.3 % (1) See Note(2) on the table showing consolidated DIRECTV Latin America results of operations above.
Subscribers.
In 2013, net subscriber additions decreased due to higher average monthly subscriber churn in 2013. Average monthly total subscriber churn increased related to the improper crediting of certain subscriber accounts and associated corrective actions described above, as well as challenging economic and competitive conditions. The higher average monthly subscriber churn was also impacted by the effect of a higher mix of mass market subscribers in 2013.
Revenues.
Revenues increased in 2013 as compared to 2012 due to subscriber growth partially offset by a decrease in ARPU. The decrease in ARPU was primarily due to unfavorable exchange rates and the effect of increased penetration of lower ARPU mass market subscribers, partially offset by price increases and a higher number of upgrades, including advanced services.
Operating profit before depreciation and amortization.
Operating profit before depreciation and amortization increased in 2013 as compared to 2012, primarily due to higher revenues and the settlement of the ECAD dispute, partially offset by higher broadcast programming costs related to the larger subscriber base. Also impacting operating profit before depreciation and amortization were higher subscriber service expenses related to the larger subscriber base.
Operating profit before depreciation and amortization margin increased in 2013 as compared to 2012, driven by the incremental margin generated by higher revenues and lower relative broadcast programming and other costs, primarily related to the settlement of the ECAD dispute.
Operating profit.
Operating profit and operating profit margin decreased in 2013 as compared to 2012, as the increase in operating profit before depreciation and amortization was offset by an increase in depreciation and amortization expense due to higher total capitalized subscriber leased equipment and installation and higher depreciation expense associated with the higher monthly average total subscriber churn discussed above.
62 Table of Contents DIRECTV PanAmericana and Other Results of Operations The following table provides operating results and a summary of key subscriber data for the consolidated DIRECTV PanAmericana and Other operations: Change 2013 2012 $ % (Dollars in Millions, Except Per Subscriber Amounts) Revenues $ 3,091 $ 2,743 $ 348 12.7 % Operating profit before depreciation and amortization (1) 691 774 (83 ) (10.7 )% Operating profit before depreciation and amortization margin (1) 22.4 % 28.2 %   Operating profit (1) $ 247 $ 400 $ (153 ) (38.3 )% Operating profit margin (1) 8.0 % 14.6 %   Other data: ARPU $ 44.19 $ 49.24 $ (5.05 ) (10.3 )% Total number of subscribers (in thousands) 6,197 5,291 906 17.1 % Total capital expenditures $ 759 $ 786 $ (27 ) (3.4 )% (1)Amounts include the impact of the Venezuelan devaluation charge of $166million recorded in the first quarter of 2013.
Subscribers.
In 2013, net subscriber additions decreased primarily due to lower gross subscriber additions combined with higher average monthly subscriber churn in 2013. The decrease in gross subscriber additions was due to certain limitations on importing set-top receivers for new subscribers in Venezuela, as well as lower gross subscriber additions in Argentina associated with a more challenging economic environment. This decrease in gross subscriber additions was partially offset by increased gross subscriber additions in Chile, Colombia and Ecuador primarily due to greater mass market demand. Average monthly total subscriber churn decreased as a result of higher pre-paid reconnection rates, coupled with lower post paid churn in 2013.
Revenues.
Revenues increased in 2013 as compared to 2012 due to subscriber growth, partially offset by a decrease in ARPU. The decrease in ARPU was primarily due to the devaluation of the Venezuelan bolivar in February 2013 and currency depreciation in Argentina, partially offset by price increases.
Operating profit before depreciation and amortization.
Operating profit before depreciation and amortization decreased in 2013 as compared to 2012, primarily in Venezuela as a result of the charge resulting from the devaluation of the bolivar in February 2013. The decrease in operating profit before depreciation and amortization in Venezuela was partially offset by an increase in operating profit before depreciation and amortization in Colombia and Argentina, primarily due to higher revenues, partially offset by higher broadcast programming costs and subscriber service expenses related to the larger subscriber base, as well as higher general and administrative expenses related to higher infrastructure costs.
Operating profit before depreciation and amortization margin decreased in 2013 as compared to 2012, primarily in Venezuela, as the higher revenues were more than offset by the impact of the $166million charge related to the devaluation of the bolivar in February 2013.
Operating profit.
Operating profit and operating profit margin decreased in 2013 as compared to 2012, primarily due to the decrease in operating profit before depreciation and amortization and an increase in depreciation and amortization expense due to higher total capitalized subscriber leased equipment and higher depreciation expense due to higher total capitalized subscriber leased equipment and installation costs.
63 Table of Contents DIRECTV DIRECTV Consolidated Other Income, Income Taxes and Net Income Attributable to Noncontrolling Interest Interest income.
Interest income was $72million in 2013 and $59million in 2012 .
Interest expense.
The decrease in interest expense to $840million in 2013 from $842million in 2012 was primarily a result of the settlement of the ECAD dispute, partially offset by the impact of a higher average debt balance. We capitalized interest costs of $41million in 2013 and $24million in 2012.
Other, net.
The significant components of "Other, net" were as follows: 2013 2012 Change (Dollars in Millions) Equity in earnings from unconsolidated affiliates (1) $ 198 $ 131 $ 67 DSN Northwest deconsolidation charge (59 )  (59 ) Net foreign currency transaction loss (52 ) (34 ) (18 ) ECAD settlement gain 21  21 Net gains from sale of investments 8 122 (114 ) Fair-value loss on non-employee stock options (7 ) (4 ) (3 ) Other (3 ) (11 ) 8 Loss on early extinguishment of debt  (64 ) 64            Total $ 106 $ 140 $ (34 )                                  (1) Includes an increase in equity earnings from Sky Mexico of approximately $60million related to the recognition of certain one-time tax benefits in 2013.
Income tax expense.
We recognized income tax expense of $1,603million in 2013 and $1,465million in 2012. The effective tax rate for 2013 was 35.7% compared to 33.0% for 2012. The higher effective tax rate in 2013 was primarily attributable to the unfavorable tax impacts of the Venezuela currency devaluation and the DSN Northwest Transaction in 2013 and a benefit recorded for the recognition of uncertain tax benefits due to the expiration of the statute of limitations in federal and foreign tax jurisdictions in 2012.
Net income attributable to noncontrolling interest.
Net income attributable to noncontrolling interest was $26million in 2013 and $28million in 2012.
Earnings Per Share Common stock earnings per share and weighted shares outstanding were as follows for the years ended December31: 2013 2012 Basic earnings attributable to DIRECTV per common share $ 5.22 $ 4.62 Diluted earnings attributable to DIRECTV per common share $ 5.17 $ 4.58 Weighted average number of common shares outstanding (in millions): Basic 548 638 Diluted 553 644 The increases in basic and diluted earnings per share were due to a reduction in weighted average shares outstanding resulting from our share repurchase program, partially offset by lower net income attributable to DIRECTV.
64 Table of Contents DIRECTV LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Our principal sources of liquidity are our cash, cash equivalents and the cash flow that we generate from our operations. We expect that net cash provided by operating activities will grow and believe that our existing cash balances and cash provided by operations will be sufficient to fund our existing business plan. DIRECTV U.S. has the ability to borrow up to $2.5billion under its revolving credit facilities. As of December31, 2014, there were no borrowings outstanding under the revolving credit facilities. In addition, DIRECTV U.S. has a commercial paper program backed by its revolving credit facilities, which provides for the issuance of short-term commercial paper in the United States up to a maximum aggregate principal of $2.5billion. At December31, 2014, we had no short-term commercial paper outstanding compared with $200million outstanding at December31, 2013. Aggregate amounts outstanding under the revolving credit facilities and the commercial paper program are limited to $2.5billion.
At December31, 2014, our cash and cash equivalents totaled $4,635million compared with $2,180million at December31, 2013.
As a measure of liquidity, the current ratio (ratio of current assets to current liabilities) was 1.27 at December31, 2014 and 0.91 at December31, 2013. Working capital increased by $2,437million to $1,860million at December31, 2014 from a deficit of $577million at December31, 2013. The increase during the year was primarily due to cash proceeds of $1,200million from the December 2014 senior notes debt issuance coupled with the suspension of our share repurchase program in May 2014.
Summary Cash Flow Information Years Ended December31, 2014 2013 2012 (Dollars in Millions) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 6,369 $ 6,394 $ 5,634 Net cash used in investing activities (3,363 ) (3,753 ) (3,363 ) Net cash used in financing activities (168 ) (2,176 ) (1,242 ) Free cash flow: Net cash provided by operating activities $ 6,369 $ 6,394 $ 5,634 Less: Cash paid for property, equipment and satellites (3,225 ) (3,786 ) (3,349 )            Free cash flow $ 3,144 $ 2,608 $ 2,285                                  Cash Flows Provided By Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities decreased slightly in 2014 as compared to 2013 mainly due to an increase in cash paid for interest and taxes, partially offset by higher operating profit before depreciation and amortization. Net cash provided by operating activities increased in 2013 as compared to 2012 mainly due to higher operating profit before depreciation and amortization and an increase in cash generated from working capital mostly at DIRECTV U.S. related to timing of vendor payables and a decrease in inventory principally due to increased usage of refurbished set-top boxes, partially offset by increased prepaid expenses and cash paid for interest and taxes.
Cash paid for income taxes was $1,513million in 2014, $1,479million in 2013 and $1,406million in 2012. The increase in cash paid for taxes in 2014 was primarily due to an increase in income before income taxes in the non foreign jurisdictions. The increase in cash paid for income taxes in 2013 resulted primarily from a tax payment for the settlement of prior year taxes.
Cash paid for interest was $886million in 2014, $840million in 2013 and $781million in 2012. The increase in cash paid for interest from 2012 to 2014 is due to the increase in our average debt outstanding.
65 Table of Contents DIRECTV Cash Flows Used In Investing Activities Capital expenditures for subscriber leased set-top receivers at DIRECTV U.S. decreased in 2014 from 2013 as slightly higher gross subscriber additions in 2014 were offset by lower hardware costs and an increase in the use of refurbished set-top receivers. Capital expenditures for subscriber leased set-top receivers at DIRECTV U.S. remained relatively flat from 2012 to 2013, as the decrease in gross subscriber additions has been offset by an increase in advanced set-top receivers provided to subscribers under upgrade and retention initiatives.
During 2014, 2013 and 2012, DIRECTV U.S. was in the process of constructing two satellites, D14, which was launched in the fourth quarter of 2014, and D15, which we expect to launch in the first half of 2015. Additionally, capital expenditures were higher in 2012 and 2013 as a result of the construction of our new El Segundo campus.
During 2014, 2013 and 2012, DIRECTV Latin America was in the process of constructing two satellites to be leased for PanAmericana, ISDLA 1, which launched in 2014, and ISDLA 2, which is expected to be launched in 2015. As a part of the lease agreement, we are required to make prepayments prior to the launch and commencement of the lease term. Payments related to the lease agreement totaled $88million for 2014, $105million for 2013 and $128million for 2012 and are included as satellite capital expenditures. In addition, during 2013 DIRECTV Latin America contracted for the construction and launch of a new satellite for Sky Brasil, SKY-Brasil 1, which we expect to launch in the second quarter of 2016. DIRECTV Latin America paid $102million in 2014 and $59million in 2013 for the construction of SKY-Brasil 1 during 2014.
We paid $47million in 2014, $66million in 2013 and $16million in 2012 for investments, net of cash acquired, in various companies. Our cash spending on investment in companies is discretionary and we may fund strategic investment opportunities should they arise in the future. We received cash proceeds of $32million in 2014, related to the sale of various investments, $257million in 2013, primarily related to the 2012 sale of an 18% interest in Game Show Network, and $24million also related to the sale of various investments, as further discussed in Note8 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. In addition, we paid cash of $120million for broadband spectrum licenses at DIRECTV Latin America in 2014 and $159million for spectrum at DIRECTV Latin America and new patent licenses in DIRECTV U.S. in 2013.
Cash Flows Used in Financing Activities During 2014, we had $2,437million of net cash proceeds from the issuance of senior notes, $195million of cash proceeds from BNDES, $18million of cash proceeds from Desenvolve SP and $200million of net cash repayments of short-term commercial paper. We also repaid $1,000million of our senior notes and $66million of the BNDES financing facility in 2014. During 2013, we had $1,947million of net cash proceeds from the issuance of senior notes, $152million of cash proceeds from BNDES and $158million of net cash repayments of short-term commercial paper. We also repaid $15million of the BNDES financing facility and borrowed and repaid $10million under our revolving credit facility in 2013. During 2012, we had $5,190million of net cash proceeds from the issuance of senior notes and $358million of net cash proceeds from the issuance of short-term commercial paper. We also repaid $1,500million of our long-term debt and borrowed and repaid $400million under our revolving credit facility.
Under our share repurchase program, we repurchased and retired $1,386million in 2014, $4,000million in 2013, and $5,175million in 2012 of our common shares. The decrease in the cash payments in 2014 was due to the suspension of our share repurchase program in May 2014, as further discussed below.
Share Repurchase Program Since 2006 our Board of Directors has approved multiple authorizations for the repurchase of our common stock. In February 2014 our Board of Directors approved an authorization for up to $3.5billion for repurchases of our common stock. On May18, 2014, DIRECTV and AT&T entered into a definitive agreement under 66 Table of Contents DIRECTV which AT&T will combine with DIRECTV in a stock-and-cash transaction. As a result, we have suspended the share repurchase program and agreed to not purchase, repurchase, redeem or otherwise acquire any shares of our capital stock during the pendency of the proposed transaction with and without AT&T's consent.
Debt At December31, 2014, we had $20,812million in total outstanding borrowings, which consisted of senior notes and borrowings under the BNDES and Desenvolve SP financing facilities at Sky Brasil. Our outstanding borrowings are more fully described in Note10 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item8, PartII of this Annual Report.
Should the proposed merger transaction with AT&T not proceed, we may borrow in the future in order to maintain a ratio of outstanding long-term debt equal to approximately 2.5 times operating profit before depreciation and amortization of DIRECTV on a consolidated basis. We will continue to evaluate our optimal leverage on an ongoing basis. Regardless of the proposed merger transaction with AT&T, we may purchase our outstanding senior notes in the future from time to time in open market transactions or otherwise as part of liability management initiatives.
Senior Notes.
At December31, 2014, DIRECTV U.S.' senior notes had a carrying value of $20,527million and a weighted-average coupon rate of 4.5%. The principal amount of our senior notes mature as follows: $1,200million in 2015, $2,250million in 2016, $1,250million in 2017, $750million in 2018, $1,000million in 2019 and $14,068million thereafter.
Commercial Paper.
On November27, 2012, DIRECTV U.S. established a commercial paper program backed by its revolving credit facilities, which provides for the issuance of short-term commercial paper in the United States up to a maximum aggregate principal of $2.5billion. As of December31, 2014, we had no short-term commercial paper outstanding. As of December31, 2013, we had $200million of short-term commercial paper outstanding, with a weighted average maturity of 133days, at a weighted average yield of 0.41%.
Revolving Credit Facilities DIRECTV U.S. has a $1.0billion revolving credit facility, which expires in February 2016, and a $1.5billion revolving credit facility, which expires in September 2017. We pay a commitment fee of 0.15% per year for the unused commitment under the revolving credit facilities. Borrowings currently bear interest at a rate equal to the London Interbank Offer Rate (LIBOR) plus 1.25%. Both the commitment fee and the annual interest rate may increase or decrease under certain conditions due to changes in DIRECTV U.S.' long-term, unsecured debt ratings. Under certain conditions, DIRECTV U.S. may increase the borrowing capacity of the revolving credit facilities by an aggregate amount of up to $500million. Aggregate amounts outstanding under the revolving credit facilities and the commercial paper program are limited to $2.5billion. As of December31, 2014 and December31, 2013, there were no borrowings outstanding under the revolving credit facilities.
Borrowings under the revolving credit facilities are unsecured senior obligations of DIRECTV U.S. and will rank equally in right of payment with all of DIRECTV U.S.' existing and future senior debt and will rank senior in right of payment to all of DIRECTV U.S.' future subordinated debt, if any.
Covenants and Restrictions The revolving credit facilities require DIRECTV U.S. to maintain at the end of each fiscal quarter a specified ratio of indebtedness to earnings before interest, taxes and depreciation and amortization. The revolving credit facilities also include covenants that limit DIRECTV U.S.' ability to, among other things, (i)incur additional subsidiary indebtedness, (ii)incur liens, (iii)enter into certain transactions with affiliates, (iv)merge or consolidate with another entity, (v)sell, assign, lease or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of its assets, 67 Table of Contents DIRECTV and (vi)change its lines of business. Additionally, the senior notes contain restrictive covenants that are similar. If DIRECTV U.S. fails to comply with these covenants, all or a portion of its borrowings under the senior notes could become immediately payable and its revolving credit facilities could be terminated. At December31, 2014, management believes DIRECTV U.S. was in compliance with all such covenants. The senior notes provide that the borrowings may be required to be prepaid if certain change-in-control events, coupled with a ratings decline, occur. The revolving credit facilities provide that the borrowings may be required to be prepaid if certain change-in-control events occur.
DIRECTV Guarantors.
DIRECTV guarantees all of the senior notes then outstanding, jointly and severally with DIRECTV HoldingsLLC's material domestic subsidiaries. DIRECTV unconditionally guarantees that the principal and interest on the respective senior notes will be paid in full when due and that the obligations of the Co-Issuers to the holders of the outstanding senior notes will be performed. The revolving credit facilities and the commercial paper program are also similarly fully guaranteed by DIRECTV.
As a result of the guarantees, holders of the senior notes, the revolving credit debt and the commercial paper have the benefit of DIRECTV's interests in the assets and related earnings of our operations that are not held through DIRECTV HoldingsLLC and its subsidiaries. Those operations are primarily our DTH digital television services throughout Latin America which are held by DIRECTV Latin America and our regional sports networks which are held by DSN. However, the subsidiaries that own and operate the DIRECTV Latin America business and the regional sports networks have not guaranteed the senior notes, the revolving credit facilities and the commercial paper program.
The guarantees are unsecured senior obligations of DIRECTV and rank equally in right of payment with all of DIRECTV's existing and future senior debt and rank senior in right of payment to all of DIRECTV's future subordinated debt, if any. The guarantees are effectively subordinated to all existing and future secured obligations, if any, of DIRECTV to the extent of the value of the assets securing the obligations. DIRECTV is not subject to the covenants contained in each indenture of the senior notes and our guarantees will terminate and be released on the terms set forth in each of the indentures.
BNDES Financing Facility In March 2013, Sky Brasil entered into a Brazilian real denominated financing facility with Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento Econmico e Social, or BNDES, a government owned bank in Brazil, under which Sky Brasil may borrow funds for the purchase of set-top receivers. As of December31, 2014, Sky Brasil had borrowings of R$710million ($267million) outstanding under the BNDES facility bearing interest at a weighted-average rate of 5.11% per year. As of December31, 2013, Sky Brasil had borrowings of R$320million ($137million) outstanding under the BNDES facility bearing interest at a weighted-average rate of 3.07% per year. Borrowings under the facility are required to be repaid in 30monthly installments. The U.S. dollar amounts reflect the conversion of the Brazilian real denominated amounts into U.S. dollars based on the exchange rates of R$2.66 / $1.00 and R$2.34 / $1.00 as of December31, 2014 and December31, 2013, respectively.
Borrowings under the BNDES facility mature as follows: R$338million ($127million) in 2015, R$274million ($103million) in 2016 and R$98million ($37million) in 2017. The financing facility is collateralized by the financed set-top receivers with an original purchase price of approximately R$1,024million ($385million) based on the exchange rate of R$2.66 / $1.00 as of December31, 2014.
Desenvolve SP Financing Facility In the second quarter of 2014, Sky Brasil entered into a Brazilian real denominated financing facility with Desenvolve SP, an agency created by the Sao Paulo State Government for economic development, under which Sky Brasil may borrow funds for the construction of a satellite and broadcast facility. Each borrowing under the facility, including accrued interest, will be repaid in a single installment five years from the date of such borrowing. The financing facility is secured by a third party bank guarantee. As of December31, 2014, Sky 68 Table of Contents DIRECTV Brasil had borrowings of R$48million ($18million) under the facility bearing interest of 2.5% per year, with a maturity of 2019. The U.S. dollar amounts reflect the conversion of the Brazilian real denominated amounts into U.S. dollars based on the exchange rate of R$2.66 / $1.00 at December31, 2014.
Contingencies Venezuela Devaluation and Foreign Currency Exchange Controls.
Companies operating in Venezuela are required to obtain Venezuelan government approval to exchange Venezuelan bolivars into U.S. dollars and such approval has not consistently been granted for several years. Consequently, our ability to pay U.S. dollar denominated obligations and repatriate cash generated in Venezuela in excess of local operating requirements is limited, which has resulted in increases in the cash balance at our Venezuelan subsidiary, and limited our ability to import set-top receivers and other equipment, limiting the growth of our business in Venezuela.
In February 2013, the Venezuelan government announced a devaluation of the Venezuelan bolivar from the official exchange rate of 4.3 Venezuelan bolivars per U.S. dollar to an official rate of 6.3 Venezuelan bolivars per U.S. dollar. As a result of the devaluation, we recorded a pre-tax charge in "Venezuelan currency devaluation charge" in the Consolidated Statements of Operations of $166million ($136million after tax) in the first quarter of 2013, related to the remeasurement of the bolivar denominated net monetary assets of our Venezuelan subsidiary as of the date of the devaluation.
In the first quarter of 2013, the Venezuelan government announced a new currency exchange system, the Sistema Complementario de Administracin de Divisas, or SICAD 1, which is intended to function as an auction system for participants to exchange Venezuelan bolivars for U.S. dollars. The volume of amounts exchanged through such SICAD 1 system and the resulting exchange rate are published by the Venezuelan Central Bank. Effective January24, 2014, the Venezuelan government announced that dividends and royalties would be subject to the SICAD 1 program. The SICAD 1 exchange rate, which was 12.0 Venezuelan bolivars per U.S. dollar as of December31, 2014, is determined by periodic auctions. In February 2014, the Venezuelan government announced SICAD 2, which is an exchange mechanism that became available on March24, 2014. The exchange rate for SICAD 2 was 49.99 Venezuelan bolivars per U.S. dollar as of December31, 2014. Additionally, in February 2015, the Venezuelan government announced that the SICAD 2 exchange mechanism would no longer be available and created SIMADI, a new open market currency exchange system.
We currently believe the SICAD 1 rate is the most representative rate to use for remeasurement, as the official rate of 6.3 Venezuelan bolivars per U.S. dollar will likely be reserved only for the settlement of U.S. dollar denominated obligations related to purchases of "essential goods and services," and the equity of our Venezuelan subsidiary would be realized, if at all, through permitted dividends paid at the SICAD 1 rate. Therefore, as of December31, 2014, we are continuing to remeasure our Venezuelan subsidiary's financial statements in U.S. dollars using the exchange rate determined by periodic auctions under SICAD 1, which was 12.0 Venezuelan bolivars per U.S. dollar. Prior to March31, 2014, we used the official exchange rate of 6.3 Venezuelan bolivars per U.S. dollar. As a result of the devaluation, we recorded a pre-tax charge in "Venezuelan currency devaluation charge" in the Consolidated Statements of Operations of $281million in the first quarter of 2014, related to the remeasurement of the bolivar denominated net monetary assets of our Venezuelan subsidiary on March31, 2014.
As of December31, 2014, our Venezuelan subsidiary had Venezuelan bolivar denominated net monetary assets of $481million, including cash of $481million, based on the SICAD 1 exchange rate of 12.0 Venezuelan bolivars per U.S. dollar. In 2014, our Venezuelan subsidiary generated revenues of approximately $900million and operating profit before depreciation and amortization of approximately $400million, excluding the impact of the $281million Venezuelan devaluation charge, as well as the impact of additional exchange rate losses in Venezuela recorded during 2014. The exchange rate used to report net monetary assets and operating results of our Venezuelan subsidiary is currently based on the results of periodic SICAD 1 auctions, which is expected to result in fluctuations in reported amounts that could be material to the results of operations in Venezuela in future periods and could materially affect the comparability of results for our Venezuelan subsidiary between 69 Table of Contents DIRECTV periods. The comparability of our results of operations and financial position in Venezuela will also be affected in the event of additional changes to the currency exchange rate system, further devaluations of the Venezuelan bolivar or if we determine in the future that a rate other than the SICAD 1 rate is appropriate for the remeasurement of our Venezuelan bolivar denominated net monetary assets.
Income taxes.
During 2014, we reached settlement with various state tax jurisdictions resulting in the recognition of uncertain tax benefits. As a result we recorded a benefit of $35million in "Income tax expense" in the Consolidated Statements of Operations during the year ended December31, 2014. During 2013, we reached settlement with federal and state tax jurisdictions resulting in the recognition of uncertain tax benefits. As a result we recorded a benefit of $76million in "Income tax expense" in the Consolidated Statements of Operations during the year ended December31, 2013. We engage in continuous discussions and negotiations with federal, state, and foreign taxing authorities and reevaluate our uncertain tax positions, and, while it is often difficult to predict the final outcome or the timing of resolution of any particular tax matter or tax position, we believe that it is reasonably possible that our unrecognized tax benefits will not change materially during the next twelve months.
Other.
Several factors may affect our ability to fund our operations and commitments that we discuss in "Contractual Obligations," "Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements" and "Contingencies" below. In addition, our future cash flows may be reduced if we experience, among other things, significantly higher subscriber additions than planned, increased subscriber churn or upgrade and retention costs, higher than planned capital expenditures for satellites and broadcast equipment, satellite anomalies or signal theft. Additionally, DIRECTV U.S.' ability to borrow under the revolving credit facilities is contingent upon DIRECTV U.S. meeting financial and other covenants associated with its facilities as more fully described above.
CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS The following table sets forth our contractual obligations as of December31, 2014, including the future periods in which payments are expected. Additional details regarding these obligations are provided in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in PartII, Item8 of this Annual Report, as referenced in the table. The contractual obligations below do not include payments that could be made related to our net unrecognized tax benefits liability, which amounted to $516million as of December31, 2014. The timing and amount of any such future payments is not reasonably estimable, as such payments are dependent on the completion and resolution of examinations with tax authorities.
Payments Due By Period Contractual Obligations Total Less than 1year 1-3years 3-5years More than 5years (Dollars in Millions) Long-term debt obligations (Note10) (a) $ 31,899 $ 2,220 $ 5,273 $ 3,289 $ 21,117 Purchase obligations (Note21) (b) 16,330 2,158 3,791 3,576 6,805 Operating lease obligations (Note21) (c) 963 108 200 198 457 Capital lease obligations (Notes13 and 21)(d) 1,331 146 283 254 648                  Total $ 50,523 $ 4,632 $ 9,547 $ 7,317 $ 29,027                                                    (a) Long-term debt obligations include interest calculated based on the rates in effect at December31, 2014, however, the obligations do not reflect potential prepayments required under indentures.
(b) Purchase obligations consist primarily of broadcast programming commitments, regional professional team rights agreements, service contract commitments and satellite construction and launch contracts. Broadcast programming commitments include guaranteed minimum contractual commitments that are typically based on a flat fee or a minimum number of required subscribers subscribing to the related programming. Actual 70 Table of Contents DIRECTV payments may exceed the minimum payment requirements if the actual number of subscribers subscribing to the related programming exceeds the minimum amounts. Service contract commitments include minimum commitments for the purchase of services that have been outsourced to third parties, such as billing services, telemetry, tracking and control services and broadcast center services. In most cases, actual payments, which are typically based on volume, usually exceed these minimum amounts.
(c) Certain of the operating leases contain variable escalation clauses and renewal or purchase options, which we do not consider in the amounts disclosed.
(d) Capital lease obligations include prepayments related to a satellite lease contract, which we expect to account for as a capital lease upon commencement. For further discussion, please refer to Note21 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in PartII, Item8 of this Annual Report.
OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS As of December31, 2014, we were contingently liable under standby letters of credit and bonds in the aggregate amount of $316million primarily related to judicial deposit and payment guarantees in Latin America and insurance deductibles.
CONTINGENCIES For a discussion of "Contingencies", see Note21 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in PartII, Item8 of this Annual Report.
CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED-PARTY TRANSACTIONS For a discussion of "Certain Relationships and Related-Party Transactions," see Note19 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in PartII, Item8 of this Annual Report.
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES The preparation of the consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires management to make estimates, judgments and assumptions that affect amounts reported. Management bases its estimates, judgments and assumptions on historical experience and on various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. Due to the inherent uncertainty involved in making estimates, actual results reported for future periods may be affected by changes in those estimates. The following represents what we believe are the critical accounting policies that may involve a higher degree of estimation, judgment and complexity. Management has discussed the development and selection of these critical accounting estimates with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors, and the Audit Committee has reviewed our disclosures relating to them, which are presented below. For a summary of our significant accounting policies, including those discussed below, see Note2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in PartII, Item8 of this Annual Report.
Income Taxes.
We must make certain estimates and judgments in determining provisions for income taxes. These estimates and judgments occur in the calculation of tax credits, tax benefits and deductions, and in the calculation of certain tax assets and liabilities, which arise from differences in the timing of recognition of revenue and expense for tax and financial statement purposes.
We assess the recoverability of deferred tax assets at each reporting date and where applicable, record a valuation allowance to reduce the total deferred tax asset to an amount that will, more-likely-than-not, be realized in the future. Our assessment includes an analysis of whether deferred tax assets will be realized in the ordinary course of operations based on the available positive and negative evidence, including the scheduling of deferred tax liabilities and forecasted income from operating activities. The underlying assumptions we use in forecasting future taxable income require significant judgment. In the event that actual income from operating activities 71 Table of Contents DIRECTV differs from forecasted amounts, or if we change our estimates of forecasted income from operating activities, we could record additional charges or reduce allowances in order to adjust the carrying value of deferred tax assets to their realizable amount. Such adjustments could be material to our consolidated financial statements.
In addition, the recognition of a tax benefit for tax positions involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax regulations. Judgment is required in assessing the future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in our financial statements or tax returns. We provide for taxes for uncertain tax positions where assessments have not been received. We believe such tax reserves are adequate in relation to the potential for additional assessments. Once established, we adjust these amounts only when more information is available or when an event occurs necessitating a change to the reserves. Future events such as changes in the facts or law, judicial decisions regarding the application of existing law or a favorable audit outcome will result in changes to the amounts provided.
Contingent Matters.
Determining when, or if, an accrual should be recorded for a contingent matter, including but not limited to legal and tax issues, and the amount of such accrual, if any, requires a significant amount of management judgment and estimation. We develop our judgments and estimates in consultation with outside counsel based on an analysis of potential outcomes. Due to the uncertainty of determining the likelihood of a future event occurring and the potential financial statement impact of such an event, it is possible that upon further development or resolution of a contingent matter, we could record a charge in a future period that would be material to our consolidated financial statements.
Depreciable Lives of Leased Set-Top Receivers.
We currently lease most set-top receivers provided to new and existing subscribers and therefore capitalize the cost of those set-top receivers. We depreciate set-top receivers at DIRECTV U.S. over a three to five year estimated useful life, which is based on, among other things, management's judgment of the risk of technological obsolescence. Changes in the estimated useful lives of set-top receivers capitalized could result in significant changes to the amounts recorded as depreciation expense. If we extended the depreciable life of the set-top receivers at DIRECTV U.S. by one year, it would result in an approximately $270million reduction in annual depreciation expense.
Valuation of Long-Lived Assets.
We evaluate the carrying value of long-lived assets to be held and used, other than goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives, when events and circumstances warrant such a review. We consider the carrying value of a long-lived asset impaired when the anticipated undiscounted future cash flow from such asset is separately identifiable and is less than its carrying value. In that event, we recognize a loss based on the amount by which the carrying value exceeds the fair value of the long-lived asset. We determine fair value primarily using the estimated future cash flows associated with the asset under review, discounted at a rate commensurate with the risk involved, and other valuation techniques. We determine losses on long-lived assets to be disposed of in a similar manner, except that we reduce the fair value for the cost of disposal. Changes in estimates of future cash flows could result in a write-down of the asset in a future period.
Valuation of Goodwill and Intangible Assets with Indefinite Lives.
We evaluate the carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives annually in the fourth quarter or more frequently when events and circumstances change that would more likely than not result in an impairment loss. We completed our annual impairment testing during the fourth quarter of 2014, and determined that there was no impairment of goodwill or intangible assets with indefinite lives. As of December31, 2014, the fair value of each reporting unit and our intangible assets with indefinite lives significantly exceed their carrying values. See Note7 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in PartII, Item8 of this Annual Report.
The goodwill evaluation requires the estimation of the fair value of reporting units where we record goodwill. We determine fair values primarily using estimated cash flows discounted at a rate commensurate with the risk involved, when appropriate. Estimation of future cash flows requires significant judgment about future operating results, and can vary significantly from one evaluation to the next. Risk adjusted discount rates are not fixed and are subject to change over time. As a result, changes in estimated future cash flows and/or changes in 72 Table of Contents DIRECTV discount rates could result in a write-down of goodwill or intangible assets with indefinite lives in a future period which could be material to our consolidated financial statements.
ITEM 7A.QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The following discussion and the estimated amounts generated from the sensitivity analyses referred to below include forward-looking statements of market risk which assume for analytical purposes that certain adverse market conditions may occur. Actual future market conditions may differ materially from such assumptions and the amounts noted below are the result of analyses used for the purpose of assessing possible risks and the mitigation thereof. Accordingly, you should not consider the forward-looking statements as our projections of future events or losses.
General Our cash flows and earnings are subject to fluctuations resulting from changes in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and changes in the market value of our equity investments. We manage our exposure to these market risks through internally established policies and procedures and, when deemed appropriate, through the use of derivative financial instruments. We enter into derivative instruments only to the extent considered necessary to meet our risk management objectives, and do not enter into derivative contracts for speculative purposes.
Foreign Currency Risk Transaction Exposure We generally conduct our business in U.S. dollars with some business conducted in a variety of foreign currencies and therefore we are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Our objective in managing our exposure to foreign currency changes is to reduce earnings and cash flow volatility associated with foreign exchange rate fluctuations. Accordingly, we may enter into foreign exchange contracts to mitigate risks associated with foreign currency denominated assets, liabilities, commitments and anticipated foreign currency transactions. The gains and losses on derivative foreign exchange contracts offset changes in value of the related exposures.
As of December31, 2014, we had no significant foreign currency exchange contracts outstanding, excluding the cross-currency swaps described in Note11 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in PartII, Item8 of this Annual Report. The impact of a hypothetical 10% adverse change in exchange rates would be a loss of $128million, net of taxes, at December31, 2014, a portion of which could be recorded in "Foreign currency translation adjustments" in our Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income.
Economic Exposure We are exposed to the market risks associated with fluctuations in foreign exchange rates as they relate to our foreign currency denominated debt obligations. Cross-currency swaps are used to effectively convert fixed rate foreign currency denominated debt to fixed rate U.S. dollar denominated debt, hedging the risk that the cash flows related to annual interest payments and the payment of principal at maturity may be adversely affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates. The gains and losses on the cross-currency swaps offset changes in the U.S. dollar equivalent value of the related exposures. As of December31, 2014, the fair value of our cross-currency swaps was an asset of $8million, which is recorded in "Investments and other assets" and a liability of $24million which is recorded in "Other liabilities and deferred credits" in our Consolidated Balance Sheets. For additional information, refer to Note11 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in PartII, Item8 of this Annual Report.
73 Table of Contents DIRECTV Counterparty Credit Risk We manage the credit risks associated with our derivative financial instruments through diversification and the evaluation and monitoring of the creditworthiness of the counterparties. Although we may be exposed to losses in the event of nonperformance by the counterparties, we do not expect such losses, if any, to be significant. We have agreements with certain counterparties that include collateral provisions. These provisions require a party with an aggregate unrealized loss position in excess of certain thresholds to post cash collateral for the amount in excess of the threshold. The threshold levels in our collateral agreements are based on our and the counterparties' credit ratings. As of December31, 2014 we held no cash collateral from counterparties. As of December31, 2013, we held cash collateral of $10million, which is recorded in "Accounts payable and accrued liabilities" in our Consolidated Balance Sheets. For additional information, refer to Note11 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in PartII, Item8 of this Annual Report.
Interest Rate Risk From time to time, we may be subject to fluctuating interest rates for variable rate borrowings, which may adversely impact our consolidated results of operations and cash flows. We had outstanding debt of $20,812million at December31, 2014, which consisted principally of DIRECTV U.S.' fixed rate borrowings. For additional information, refer to Note11 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in PartII, Item8 of this Annual Report.
74 Table of Contents DIRECTV ITEM 8.FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of DIRECTV El Segundo, California We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of DIRECTV and subsidiaries (the "Company") as of December31, 2014 and 2013, and the related consolidated statements of operations, comprehensive income, changes in stockholders' deficit and redeemable noncontrolling interest, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December31, 2014. Our audits also included the financial statement schedule listed in the Index at Item15. These financial statements and financial statement schedule are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the financial statements and financial statement schedule based on our audits.
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
In our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of DIRECTV and subsidiaries at December31, 2014 and 2013, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December31, 2014, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Also, in our opinion, such financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein.
We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of December31, 2014, based on the criteria established in Internal ControlIntegrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our report dated February24, 2015 expressed an unqualified opinion on the Company's internal control over financial reporting.
/s/ DELOITTE& TOUCHELLP Los Angeles, California February24, 2015 75 Table of Contents DIRECTV CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS Years Ended December31, 2014 2013 2012 (Dollars in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts) Revenues $ 33,260 $ 31,754 $ 29,740 Operating costs and expenses Costs of revenues, exclusive of depreciation and amortization expense Broadcast programming and other 14,930 13,991 13,028 Subscriber service expenses 2,320 2,242 2,137 Broadcast operations expenses 430 409 414 Selling, general and administrative expenses, exclusive of depreciation and amortization expense Subscriber acquisition costs 3,659 3,419 3,397 Upgrade and retention costs 1,456 1,547 1,427 General and administrative expenses 2,113 2,002 1,815 Venezuelan currency devaluation charge 281 166  Depreciation and amortization expense 2,943 2,828 2,437            Total operating costs and expenses 28,132 26,604 24,655            Operating profit 5,128 5,150 5,085 Interest income 68 72 59 Interest expense (898 ) (840 ) (842 ) Other, net 150 106 140            Income before income taxes 4,448 4,488 4,442 Income tax expense (1,673 ) (1,603 ) (1,465 )            Net income 2,775 2,885 2,977 Less: Net income attributable to noncontrolling interest (19 ) (26 ) (28 )            Net income attributable to DIRECTV $ 2,756 $ 2,859 $ 2,949                                  Basic earnings attributable to DIRECTV per common share $ 5.46 $ 5.22 $ 4.62 Diluted earnings attributable to DIRECTV per common share $ 5.40 $ 5.17 $ 4.58 Weighted average number of common shares outstanding (in millions): Basic 505 548 638 Diluted 510 553 644 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements.
76 Table of Contents DIRECTV CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME Years Ended December31, 2014 2013 2012 (Dollars in Millions) Net income $ 2,775 $ 2,885 $ 2,977 Other comprehensive income (loss), net of taxes: Defined benefit plans: Gains (losses) related to changes in plan experience and actuarial assumptions arising during the period (49 ) 22 (45 ) Prior service credit arising during the period 21   Amortization of amounts resulting from changes in plan experience and actuarial assumptions recognized as periodic benefit cost 10 38 12 Amortization of amounts resulting from changes in plan provisions recognized as periodic benefit cost  1  Cash flow hedges: Unrealized gains (losses) arising during the period (87 ) 80 (10 ) Reclassification adjustments included in net income 117 (49 ) (7 ) Foreign currency translation adjustments (108 ) (173 ) (32 ) Available for sale securities: Unrealized holding losses on securities   (4 ) Reclassification adjustment for net losses recognized during period  1             Other comprehensive loss (96 ) (80 ) (86 )            Comprehensive income 2,679 2,805 2,891 Less: Comprehensive income attributable to noncontrolling interest (10 ) (20 ) (13 )            Comprehensive income attributable to DIRECTV $ 2,669 $ 2,785 $ 2,878                                  The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements.
77 Table of Contents DIRECTV CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS December31, 2014 2013 (Dollars in Millions, Except Share Data) ASSETS Current assets Cash and cash equivalents $ 4,635 $ 2,180 Accounts receivable, net 2,800 2,547 Inventories 299 283 Deferred income taxes 68 140 Prepaid expenses and other 1,017 803         Total current assets 8,819 5,953 Satellites, net 3,040 2,467 Property and equipment, net 6,721 6,650 Goodwill 3,929 3,970 Intangible assets, net 994 920 Investments and other assets 1,956 1,945         Total assets $ 25,459 $ 21,905                         LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS' DEFICIT Current liabilities Accounts payable and accrued liabilities $ 5,048 $ 4,685 Unearned subscriber revenues and deferred credits 584 589 Current debt 1,327 1,256         Total current liabilities 6,959 6,530 Long-term debt 19,485 18,284 Deferred income taxes 1,726 1,804 Other liabilities and deferred credits 2,117 1,456 Commitments and contingencies Redeemable noncontrolling interest  375 Stockholders' deficit Common stock and additional paid-in capital$0.01 par value, 3,950,000,000 shares authorized, 502,733,342 and 519,306,232 shares issued and outstanding of DIRECTV common stock at December31, 2014 and December31, 2013, respectively 3,613 3,652 Accumulated deficit (8,408 ) (9,874 ) Accumulated other comprehensive loss (418 ) (322 )         Total DIRECTV stockholders' deficit (5,213 ) (6,544 ) Noncontrolling interest 385          Total stockholders' deficit (4,828 ) (6,544 ) Total liabilities and stockholders' deficit $ 25,459 $ 21,905                         The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements.
78 Table of Contents DIRECTV CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN STOCKHOLDERS' DEFICIT AND NONCONTROLLING INTEREST DIRECTV Common Shares Common Stock and Additional Paid-In Capital Accumulated Deficit Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss Total DIRECTV Stockholders' Deficit Noncontrolling Interest Total Stockholders' Deficit Redeemable Noncontrolling Interest (Dollars in Millions, Except Share Data) Balance as of January1, 2012 691,306,695 $ 4,799 $ (7,750 ) $ (156 ) $ (3,107 ) $  $ (3,107 ) $ 265 Net Income 2,949 2,949 2,949 28 Stock repurchased and retired (106,691,615 ) (739 ) (4,409 ) (5,148 ) (5,148 ) Stock options exercised and restricted stock units vested and distributed 2,224,737 (54 ) (54 ) (54 ) Share-based compensation expense 109 109 109 Tax benefit from share-based compensation 30 30 30 Adjustment to the fair value of redeemable noncontrolling interest (122 ) (122 ) (122 ) 122 Other (2 ) (2 ) (2 ) Other comprehensive loss (86 ) (86 ) (86 ) (15 )                           Balance as of December31, 2012 586,839,817 4,021 (9,210 ) (242 ) (5,431 )  (5,431 ) 400 Net Income 2,859 2,859 2,859 26 Stock repurchased and retired (69,510,155 ) (477 ) (3,523 ) (4,000 ) (4,000 ) Stock options exercised and restricted stock units vested and distributed 1,976,570 (61 ) (61 ) (61 ) Share-based compensation expense 100 100 100 Tax benefit from share-based compensation 23 23 23 Adjustment to the fair value of redeemable noncontrolling interest 45 45 45 (45 ) Other 1 1 1 Other comprehensive loss (80 ) (80 ) (80 ) (6 )                           Balance as of December31, 2013 519,306,232 3,652 (9,874 ) (322 ) (6,544 )  (6,544 ) 375 Net Income 2,756 2,756 19 2,775 Stock repurchased and retired (18,774,194 ) (130 ) (1,256 ) (1,386 ) (1,386 ) Stock options exercised and restricted stock units vested and distributed 2,201,304 (36 ) (36 ) (36 ) Share-based compensation expense 104 104 104 Tax benefit from share-based compensation 23 23 23 Other (34 ) (34 ) (34 ) Other comprehensive loss (96 ) (96 ) (96 ) CTA adjustment allocated to noncontrolling interest  (9 ) (9 ) Noncontrolling interest  375 375 (375 )                           Balance as of December31, 2014 502,733,342 $ 3,613 $ (8,408 ) $ (418 ) $ (5,213 ) $ 385 $ (4,828 ) $                                                                                The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements.
79 Table of Contents DIRECTV CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS Years Ended December31, 2014 2013 2012 (Dollars in Millions) Cash Flows From Operating Activities Net income $ 2,775 $ 2,885 $ 2,977 Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by operating activities: Depreciation and amortization expense 2,943 2,828 2,437 Venezuelan currency devaluation charge 281 166  DSN Northwest deconsolidation charge  59  Amortization of deferred revenues and deferred credits (48 ) (53 ) (75 ) Share-based compensation expense 104 100 109 Equity in earnings from unconsolidated affiliates (133 ) (198 ) (131 ) Net foreign currency transaction loss 87 52 34 Dividends received 28 41 79 Net gains from sale of investments (19 ) (8 ) (122 ) Deferred income taxes 166 323 (102 ) Excess tax benefit from share-based compensation (23 ) (24 ) (30 ) Other 31 (7 ) 85 Change in operating assets and liabilities: Accounts receivable (242 )  (50 ) Inventories (16 ) 118 (206 ) Prepaid expenses and other (81 ) (334 ) 58 Accounts payable and accrued liabilities 361 272 370 Unearned subscriber revenues and deferred credits (5 ) 26 28 Other, net 160 148 173            Net cash provided by operating activities 6,369 6,394 5,634 Cash Flows From Investing Activities Cash paid for property and equipment (2,940 ) (3,409 ) (2,960 ) Cash paid for satellites (285 ) (377 ) (389 ) Investment in companies, net of cash acquired (47 ) (66 ) (16 ) Proceeds from sale of investments 32 257 24 Other, net (123 ) (158 ) (22 )            Net cash used in investing activities (3,363 ) (3,753 ) (3,363 ) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements.
80 Table of Contents DIRECTV CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS(continued) Years Ended December31, 2014 2013 2012 (Dollars in Millions) Cash Flows From Financing Activities Issuance (repayment) of commercial paper (maturity 90days or less), net $  $ (155 ) $ 156 Proceeds from short-term borrowings 301 556 202 Repayment of short-term borrowings (501 ) (559 )  Proceeds from borrowings under revolving credit facility  10 400 Repayment of borrowings under revolving credit facility  (10 ) (400 ) Proceeds from long-term debt 2,650 2,099 5,190 Debt issuance costs (14 ) (12 ) (36 ) Repayment of long-term debt (1,066 ) (15 ) (1,500 ) Repayment of other long-term obligations (69 ) (63 ) (51 ) Common shares repurchased and retired (1,386 ) (4,000 ) (5,175 ) Stock options exercised 21  3 Taxes paid in lieu of shares issued for share-based compensation (60 ) (61 ) (61 ) Excess tax benefit from share-based compensation 23 24 30 Other, net (67 ) 10             Net cash used in financing activities (168 ) (2,176 ) (1,242 )            Effect of exchange rate changes on Venezuelan cash and cash equivalents (383 ) (187 )             Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 2,455 278 1,029 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the year 2,180 1,902 873            Cash and cash equivalents at end of the year $ 4,635 $ 2,180 $ 1,902                                  Supplemental Cash Flow Information Cash paid for interest $ 886 $ 840 $ 781 Cash paid for income taxes 1,513 1,479 1,406 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements.
81 Table of Contents DIRECTV NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note1: Description of Business DIRECTV, which we also refer to as the Company, we, or us, is a leading provider of digital television entertainment in the United States and Latin America. We operate two direct-to-home, or DTH, business units; DIRECTV U.S. and DIRECTV Latin America, which are differentiated by their geographic locations and are engaged in acquiring, promoting, selling and distributing digital entertainment programming primarily via satellite to residential and commercial subscribers. In addition, we own and operate two regional sports networks, and also own non-controlling interests in two others, ROOT SPORTS Northwest and ROOT SPORTS Houston. We own a 42% interest in Game Show NetworkLLC, or GSN, a television network dedicated to game-related programming and Internet interactive game playing. We account for our investment in ROOT SPORTS Northwest, ROOT SPORTS Houston and GSN using the equity method of accounting.
DIRECTV U.S.
DIRECTV HoldingsLLC and its subsidiaries, which we refer to as DIRECTV U.S., is the largest provider of DTH digital television services and the second largest provider in the multi-channel video programming distribution industry in the United States.
DIRECTV Latin America.
DIRECTV Latin America HoldingsInc. and its subsidiaries, or DIRECTV Latin America, is a leading provider of DTH digital television services throughout Latin America. DIRECTV Latin America is comprised of: PanAmericana, which provides services in Argentina, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Peru, Puerto Rico, Venezuela and certain other countries in the region, and Sky Brasil ServicosLtda., or Sky Brasil, which is a 93% owned subsidiary. DIRECTV Latin America also includes our 41% equity method investment in Innova, S. de R.L. de C.V., or Sky Mexico, which we include in the PanAmericana and Other segment.
DIRECTV Sports Networks.
DIRECTV Sports NetworksLLC and its subsidiaries, or DSN, is comprised primarily of two wholly owned regional sports networks based in Denver, Colorado and Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, and two regional sports networks based in Seattle, Washington and Houston, Texas in which DSN retains a noncontrolling interest, each of which operates under the brand name ROOT SPORTS. As further discussed in Note4 below, we acquired a noncontrolling interest in the regional sports network based in Houston, Texas, or Houston Sports Holdings,LLC, or HSH, in the fourth quarter of 2014, which we account for using the equity method of accounting. The operating results of DSN are reported as part of the "Sports Networks, Eliminations and Other" reporting segment.
Proposed AT&T Merger Transaction On May18, 2014, DIRECTV and AT&TInc., or AT&T, announced that they entered into a definitive agreement under which DIRECTV will combine with AT&T in a stock and cash transaction. The Agreement and Plan of Merger, which was included as Exhibit2.1 to the Form8-K filed with the SEC on May19, 2014, or the Merger Agreement, was approved unanimously by the Board of Directors of each company and was approved by our stockholders at a special meeting held on September25, 2014.
Subject to the conditions in the Merger Agreement, at the effective time of the merger, our shareholders will receive $95.00 per share, subject to adjustments as described below under the terms of the merger, comprised of $28.50 per share in cash and $66.50 per share in AT&T stock. The stock portion will be subject to a collar such that our shareholders will receive 1.905 AT&T shares if AT&T stock price is below $34.90 at closing and 1.724 AT&T shares if AT&T stock price is above $38.58 at closing. If AT&T stock price at closing is between $34.90 and $38.58, our shareholders will receive a number of shares between 1.724 and 1.905, equal to $66.50 in value based on a volume-weighted average as provided in the Merger Agreement. The value of the shares may differ on the date of exchange. The transaction is subject to review by the U.S. Department of Justice and the Federal Communications Commission. The transaction has been reviewed and approved by Brazil telecommunications and Mexican antitrust authorities. The transaction is expected to close in the first half of 2015.
82 Table of Contents DIRECTV NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(continued) In connection with the proposed combination, we have made certain representations, warranties and covenants in the Merger Agreement, including, among other things, covenants by DIRECTV to conduct its business in the ordinary course during the interim period between the execution of the Merger Agreement and consummation of the merger and not to take certain actions prior to the closing of the merger without the prior approval of AT&T.
Also, during the third quarter of 2014, we entered into an agreement with the National Football League, or NFL, to renew and extend our rights to exclusively distribute the NFL Sunday Ticket service, or the NFL Agreement. Pursuant to the Merger Agreement, AT&T had the right to terminate the Merger Agreement or not consummate the merger if we failed to enter into a contract with the NFL providing for exclusive distribution rights for "NFL Sunday Ticket" service. AT&T has confirmed to us that the NFL Agreement satisfies the requirements of the Merger Agreement.
Note2: Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Principles of Consolidation We present our accompanying financial statements on a consolidated basis and include our accounts and those of our domestic and foreign subsidiaries that we control through equity ownership or for which we are deemed to be the primary beneficiary, after elimination of intercompany accounts and transactions.
Use of Estimates in the Preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements We prepare our consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, which requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect amounts reported herein. We base our estimates and assumptions on historical experience and on various other factors that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Due to the inherent uncertainty involved in making estimates, our actual results reported in future periods may be affected by changes in those estimates.
Revenue Recognition We enter into multiple deliverable revenue arrangements with our subscribers under which we provide DIRECTV receiving equipment, services and programming during their contract period, of up to two years. We allocate consideration to each deliverable in the arrangement based on its relative selling price. We determine the selling price of the DIRECTV receiving equipment using our best estimate. We determine the selling price for services based on prices charged by third parties. We determine the selling price of the programming using our standard programming rates. The DIRECTV receiving equipment, services and programming are each considered separate units of accounting.
We recognize subscription and pay-per-view revenues and seasonal live sporting events when programming is broadcast to subscribers. We recognize subscriber fees for multiple set top receivers and warranty services as revenue, as earned. We recognize advertising revenues when the related services are performed. We defer programming payments received from subscribers in advance of the broadcast as "Unearned subscriber revenues and deferred credits" in the Consolidated Balance Sheets until earned. We recognize revenues to be received under contractual commitments on a straight line basis over the minimum contractual period. We report revenues net of customer credits and discounted promotions.
83 Table of Contents DIRECTV NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(continued) Broadcast Programming and Other We recognize the costs of television programming distribution rights when we distribute the related programming. We recognize the costs of television programming rights to distribute live sporting events for a season or tournament to expense using the straight-line method over the course of the season or tournament.
We defer advance payments in the form of cash and equity instruments from programming content providers for carriage of their signal and recognize them as a reduction of "Broadcast programming and other" in the Consolidated Statements of Operations on a straight-line basis over the related contract term. We record equity instruments at fair value based on quoted market prices or values determined by management.
Subscriber Acquisition Costs Subscriber acquisition costs consist of costs we incur to acquire new subscribers. We include the cost of set-top receivers and other equipment, commissions we pay to national retailers, independent satellite television retailers, dealers and regional telephone companies, which we refer to as telcos, and the cost of installation, advertising, marketing and customer call center expenses associated with the acquisition of new subscribers in subscriber acquisition costs. We expense these costs as incurred, or when subscribers activate the DIRECTV service, as appropriate, except for the cost of set-top receivers leased to new subscribers, which we capitalize in "Property and equipment, net" in the Consolidated Balance Sheets and depreciate over their estimated useful lives. In certain countries in Latin America, where our customer agreements provide for the lease of the entire DIRECTV or SKY System, we also capitalize the costs of the other customer premises equipment and related installation costs in "Property and equipment, net" in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Although paid in advance, the retailer or dealer earns substantially all commissions paid for customer acquisitions over 12months from the date of subscriber activation. Should the subscriber cancel our service during such 12month service period, we are reimbursed for the unearned portion of the commission by the retailer or dealer and record a decrease to subscriber acquisition costs. We include the amount of our set-top receivers capitalized each period for subscriber acquisition activities in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows under the caption "Cash paid for property and equipment." See Note6 for additional information.
Upgrade and Retention Costs Upgrade and retention costs consist primarily of costs we incur for upgrade efforts for existing subscribers. We include the costs of subscriber equipment upgrade programs for digital video recorder, or DVR, high-definition, or HD, and HD DVR receivers, our multiple set-top receiver offers and other similar initiatives. Retention costs also include the costs of installing and providing hardware under our movers program for subscribers relocating to a new residence. We expense these costs as incurred, except for the cost of set-top receivers leased to existing subscribers, which we capitalize in "Property and equipment, net" in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. We include the amount of our set-top receivers capitalized each period for upgrade and retention activities in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows under the caption "Cash paid for property and equipment." See Note6 for additional information.
Cash and Cash Equivalents Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash on deposit and highly liquid investments we purchase with original maturities of three months or less.
Inventories We state inventories at the lower of average cost or market. Inventories consist of finished goods for DIRECTV System equipment and DIRECTV System access cards.
84 Table of Contents DIRECTV NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(continued) Property and Equipment, Satellites and Depreciation We carry property and equipment, and satellites, at cost, net of accumulated depreciation. The amounts we capitalize for satellites currently being constructed and those that have been successfully launched include the costs of construction, launch, launch insurance, incentive obligations and capitalized interest. We generally compute depreciation using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets. We amortize leasehold improvements over the lesser of the life of the asset or term of the lease.
Capitalized Software Costs We capitalize certain software costs incurred, either from internal or external sources, as part of "Property and equipment, net" in the Consolidated Balance Sheets and depreciate these costs on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the software. We recognize planning, training, support and maintenance costs incurred either prior to or following the implementation phase as expense in the Consolidated Statements of Operations in the period in which they occur. We had unamortized capitalized software costs of $941million as of December31, 2014 and $771million as of December31, 2013. We recorded depreciation expense of $391million in 2014, $331million in 2013 and $292million in 2012 in "Depreciation and amortization expense" in the Consolidated Statements of Operations.
Goodwill and Intangible Assets Goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives are carried at historical cost and are subject to write-down, as needed, based upon an impairment analysis that we must perform at least annually, or sooner if an event occurs or circumstances change that would more likely than not result in an impairment loss. We perform our annual impairment analysis in the fourth quarter of each year. We use estimates of fair value to determine the amount of impairment, if any, of goodwill and intangibles assets with indefinite lives. The goodwill evaluation requires the estimation of the fair value of reporting units where we record goodwill. We determine fair values primarily using estimated cash flows discounted at a rate commensurate with the risk involved, when appropriate. If an impairment loss results from the annual impairment test, we would record the loss as a pre-tax charge to operating income.
We amortize other intangible assets using the straight-line method over their estimated useful lives, which range from 4 to 20years.
Valuation of Long-Lived Assets We evaluate the carrying value of long-lived assets to be held and used, other than goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives, when events and circumstances warrant such a review. We consider the carrying value of a long-lived asset impaired when the anticipated undiscounted future cash flow from such asset is separately identifiable and is less than its carrying value. In that event, we would recognize a loss based on the amount by which the carrying value exceeds the fair value of the long-lived asset. We determine fair value primarily using estimated future cash flows associated with the asset under review, discounted at a rate commensurate with the risk involved, or other valuation techniques. We determine losses on long-lived assets to be disposed of in a similar manner, except that we reduce the fair value for the cost of disposal.
Foreign Currency The U.S. dollar is the functional currency for most of our foreign operations. We recognize gains and losses resulting from remeasurement of these operations' foreign currency denominated assets, liabilities and transactions into the U.S. dollar in the Consolidated Statements of Operations.
85 Table of Contents DIRECTV NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(continued) We also have foreign operations where the local currency is their functional currency. Accordingly, these foreign entities translate assets and liabilities from their local currencies to U.S. dollars using year-end exchange rates while income and expense accounts are translated at the average rates in effect during the year. We record the resulting translation adjustment as part of "Accumulated other comprehensive loss," a separate component of stockholders' deficit in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Investments We maintain investments in equity securities of unaffiliated companies. We carry non-marketable equity securities at cost. We consider marketable equity securities available-for-sale and they are carried at current fair value based on quoted market prices with unrealized gains or losses (excluding other-than-temporary losses), net of taxes, reported as part of "Accumulated other comprehensive loss" in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. We regularly review our investments to determine whether a decline in fair value below the cost basis is "other-than-temporary." We consider, among other factors: the magnitude and duration of the decline; the financial health and business outlook of the investee, including industry and sector performance, changes in technology, and operational and financing cash flow factors; and our intent and ability to hold the investment. If we judge the decline in fair value to be other-than-temporary, we write-down the cost basis of the security to fair value and recognize the amount in the Consolidated Statements of Operations as part of "Other, net" and record it as a reclassification adjustment from "Accumulated other comprehensive loss" in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
We account for investments in which we own at least 20% of the voting securities or have significant influence under the equity method of accounting. We record equity method investments at cost and adjust for the appropriate share of the net earnings or losses of the investee. We record investee losses up to the amount of the investment plus advances and loans made to the investee, and financial guarantees made on behalf of the investee.
Derivative Financial Instruments For derivative financial instruments designated as fair value hedges, the change in the fair value of both the derivative instrument and the hedged item are recognized in earnings in the current period. For derivative financial instruments designated as cash flow hedges, the effective portion of the unrealized gains or losses on the derivative financial instruments are initially reported in "Accumulated other comprehensive loss" in the Consolidated Balance Sheets, and subsequently reclassified to earnings in the same periods during which the hedged item affects earnings. The ineffective portion of the unrealized gains and losses on these derivative financial instruments, if any, is recorded immediately in earnings. We do not offset assets and liabilities related to our derivative financial instruments.
Debt Issuance Costs We defer costs we incur to issue debt and amortize these costs to interest expense using the straight-line method over the term of the respective obligation.
Share-Based Payment We grant restricted stock units and common stock options to certain employees and shares of stock to our directors as part of their annual compensation for Board services.
We record compensation expense equal to the fair value of stock-based awards at the grant date on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period of up to three years, reduced for estimated forfeitures and adjusted for anticipated payout percentages related to the achievement of performance targets.
86 Table of Contents DIRECTV NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(continued) Sales Taxes Sales taxes collected and remitted to state and local authorities are recorded on a net basis.
Income Taxes We determine deferred tax assets and liabilities based on the difference between the financial statement and tax basis of assets and liabilities, using enacted tax rates in effect for the year in which we expect the differences to reverse. We must make certain estimates and judgments in determining income tax provisions, assessing the likelihood of recovering our deferred tax assets, and evaluating tax positions.
We recognize a benefit in "Income tax expense" in the Consolidated Statements of Operations for uncertain tax positions that are more-likely-than-not to be sustained upon examination, measured at the largest amount that has a greater than 50% likelihood of being realized upon settlement. Unrecognized tax benefits represent tax benefits taken or expected to be taken in income tax returns, for which the benefit has not yet been recognized in "Income tax expense" in the Consolidated Statements of Operations due to the uncertainty of whether such benefits will be ultimately realized. We recognize interest and penalties accrued related to unrecognized tax benefits in "Income tax expense" in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. Unrecognized tax benefits are recorded in "Income tax expense" in the Consolidated Statements of Operations at such time that the benefit is effectively settled.
Advertising Costs We expense advertising costs primarily in "Subscriber acquisition costs" in the Consolidated Statements of Operations as incurred. Advertising costs for print and media related to national advertising campaigns, net of payments received from programming content providers for marketing support, were $578million in 2014, $548million in 2013 and $514million in 2012.
Market Concentrations and Credit Risk We sell programming services and extend credit, in amounts generally not exceeding $200 each, to a large number of individual residential subscribers throughout the United States and most of Latin America. As applicable, we maintain allowances for anticipated losses.
Fair Value Measurement We determine the fair value measurements of assets and liabilities based on the three level valuation hierarchy established for classification of fair value measurements. The valuation hierarchy is based on the transparency of inputs to the valuation of an asset or liability as of the measurement date. Inputs refer broadly to the assumptions that market participants would use in pricing an asset or liability and may be observable or unobservable. The three level hierarchy of inputs is as follows: Level1: Valuation is based on quoted market prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level2: Valuation is based upon quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities in active markets, or other inputs that are observable, for substantially the full term of the asset or liability.
Level3: Valuation is based upon other unobservable inputs that are not corroborated by market data.
The carrying value of cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, investments and other assets, accounts payable, short-term borrowings and amounts included in accrued liabilities and other meeting the definition of a financial instrument approximated their fair values at December31, 2014 and 2013.
87 Table of Contents DIRECTV NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(continued) Note3: New Accounting Standard Revenue Recognition.
In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, as a new Topic, Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 606. This is a comprehensive new revenue recognition standard which will supersede existing revenue recognition guidance. The standard creates a five-step model for revenue recognition that requires companies to exercise judgment when considering contract terms and relevant facts and circumstances. The five-step model includes (1)identifying the contract, (2)identifying the separate performance obligations in the contract, (3)determining the transaction price, (4)allocating the transaction price to the separate performance obligations and (5)recognizing revenue when each performance obligation has been satisfied. The standard also requires expanded disclosures surrounding revenue recognition. The standard is effective for fiscal periods beginning after December15, 2016 and allows for either a full retrospective or modified retrospective adoption. We are currently evaluating the impact of the adoption of this standard on our consolidated financial statements.
Note4: Acquisition and Divestiture Houston Sports Holdings,LLC In November 2014, DSN acquired a 60% equity interest in Houston Sports Holdings,LLC, a regional sports network which broadcasts games for Major League Baseball's Houston Astros and the National Basketball Association's Houston Rockets. The remaining 40% equity interest was acquired by AT&T. Following the close of the transaction, we contributed $30million in cash for the operations of the regional sports network. Due to certain governance arrangements which limit our ability to control HSH, we account for our investment in HSH as an equity method investment.
DSN Northwest Transaction On April16, 2013, DSN transferred 100% of its interest in DSN Northwest to NW Sports NetLLC. Upon completion of the transaction, the Seattle Mariners have a majority interest in NW Sports NetLLC and DSN retains a noncontrolling interest, which we account for using the equity method of accounting. Additionally, DSN provides management oversight and programming services to NW Sports NetLLC as part of management service agreements entered into as part of this transaction. As a result of this transaction, we deconsolidated DSN Northwest and recorded a non-cash, pre-tax charge of approximately $59million ($56million after tax) in "Other, net" in the Consolidated Statements of Operations.
Note5: Accounts Receivable, Net The following table sets forth the amounts recorded for "Accounts receivable, net" in our Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December31: 2014 2013 (Dollars in Millions) Subscriber $ 1,889 $ 1,775 Telco 579 475 Trade and other 441 392         Total 2,909 2,642 Less: Allowance for doubtful accounts (109 ) (95 )         Accounts receivable, net $ 2,800 $ 2,547                         88 Table of Contents DIRECTV NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(continued) Note6: Satellites, Net and Property and Equipment, Net The following table sets forth the amounts recorded for "Satellites, net" and "Property and equipment, net" in our Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December31: Estimated Useful Lives (years) 2014 2013 (Dollars in Millions) Satellites 10-16 $ 3,599 $ 3,164 Satellites under construction  1,234 1,066            Total 4,833 4,230 Less: Accumulated depreciation (1,793 ) (1,763 )            Satellites, net $ 3,040 $ 2,467                                  Land  $ 76 $ 41 Buildings and leasehold improvements 2-40 548 434 Machinery and equipment 2-23 2,221 2,069 Capitalized software 3 3,478 2,923 Subscriber leased set-top equipment 3-7 10,445 10,176 Construction in-progress  557 677            Total 17,325 16,320 Less: Accumulated depreciation (10,604 ) (9,670 )            Property and equipment, net $ 6,721 $ 6,650                                  We capitalized interest costs of $35million in 2014, $41million in 2013 and $24million in 2012 as part of the cost of our property and satellites under construction. Depreciation expense, which includes amortization of property and equipment and satellites held under capital leases, was $2,889million in 2014, $2,780million in 2013 and $2,342million in 2012.
The following table sets forth property and equipment leased to our subscribers as of December31: 2014 2013 (Dollars in Millions) Subscriber leased set-top equipment $ 10,445 $ 10,176 Less: Accumulated depreciation of subscriber leased equipment (6,175 ) (5,778 )         Subscriber leased set-top equipment, net $ 4,270 $ 4,398                         89 Table of Contents DIRECTV NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(continued) Note7: Goodwill and Intangible Assets, Net The following table sets forth the changes in the carrying amounts of "Goodwill" in the Consolidated Balance Sheets by segment for the years ended December31, 2014 and 2013: DIRECTV Latin America Sports Networks, Eliminations and Other DIRECTV U.S.
Sky Brasil PanAmericana and Other Total (Dollars in Millions) Balance as of January1, 2013 $ 3,177 $ 380 $ 211 $ 295 $ 4,063 Sky Brasil foreign currency translation adjustment  (49 )   (49 ) DSN Northwest Transaction    (73 ) (73 ) Acquisitions 14 15   29                  Balance as of December31, 2013 3,191 346 211 222 3,970 Sky Brasil foreign currency translation adjustment  (41 )   (41 ) Balance as of December31, 2014 $ 3,191 $ 305 $ 211 $ 222 $ 3,929                                                    The following table sets forth the components for "Intangible assets, net" in the Consolidated Balance Sheets as of: December31, 2014 December31, 2013 Estimated Useful Lives (years) Gross Amount Accumulated Amortization Net Amount Gross Amount Accumulated Amortization Net Amount (Dollars in Millions) Orbital slots Indefinite $ 432 $  $ 432 $ 432 $  $ 432 Satellite rights 15 78 25 53 88 22 66 Subscriber related 5-10 330 310 20 363 336 27 Dealer network 15 130 130  130 127 3 Trade name, spectrum licenses and other 4-20 483 91 392 350 61 289 Distribution agreements 6-20 159 62 97 123 20 103                        Total intangible assets $ 1,612 $ 618 $ 994 $ 1,486 $ 566 $ 920                                                                      Amortization expense of intangible assets was $54million in 2014, $48million in 2013 and $95million in 2012.
Estimated amortization expense for intangible assets in each of the next five years and thereafter is as follows: $57million in 2015, $57million in 2016, $57million in 2017, $55million in 2018, $51million in 2019 and $285million thereafter.
We performed our annual impairment tests for goodwill and orbital slots in the fourth quarters of 2014, 2013 and 2012. The estimated fair values for each reporting unit and the orbital slots exceeded our carrying values, and accordingly, no impairment losses were recorded during 2014, 2013 or 2012. Additionally, there are no accumulated impairment losses as of December31, 2014 and 2013.
90 Table of Contents DIRECTV NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(continued) Note8: Investments Equity Method Investments Sky Mexico.
DIRECTV accounts for the excess of the carrying value for its investment in Sky Mexico over DIRECTV's share of Sky Mexico's equity in memo accounts allocated to goodwill and definite lived intangibles attributable to affiliate and advertising relationships. We recognized $1million in 2014, $1million in 2013 and $4million in 2012 of amortization on definite lived intangibles in equity earnings of Sky Mexico related to these assets.
Game Show Network.
DIRECTV accounts for the excess of the carrying value for its investment in GSN over DIRECTV's share of GSN's equity in memo accounts allocated to goodwill and definite lived intangibles attributable to affiliate and advertising relationships. We recognized $7million in 2014, $7million in 2013 and $10million in 2012 of amortization on definite lived intangibles in equity earnings of GSN related to these assets.
In December 2012, we sold an 18% interest in GSN for $234million to our equity partner, which reduced our ownership interest from 60% to 42%. We recognized a pre-tax gain of $111million ($68million after tax) on the sale in "Other, net" in the Consolidated Statement of Operations, which represents the difference between the selling price and the carrying amount of the portion of our equity method investment sold. We received the cash proceeds from the sale of $234million in 2013 and included the amount as cash flows from investing activities in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for the year ended December31, 2013. For the year ended December31, 2012, the $234million sale price was a non-cash investing activity for purposes of the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows.
The following table sets forth the carrying value of our investments which we account for under the equity method of accounting as of December31: 2014 2013 (Dollars in Millions) Sky Mexico $ 675 $ 644 GSN 345 324 NW Sports NetLLC 100 92 Other equity method investments 265 179         Total investments accounted for under the equity method of accounting $ 1,385 $ 1,239                         The following table sets forth equity in earnings and losses of our investments accounted for under the equity method of accounting for the years ended December31: 2014 2013 2012 (Dollars in Millions) Sky Mexico $ 58 $ 134 $ 62 GSN 21 33 42 Other 54 31 27            Total net equity earnings for investments accounted for under the equity method of accounting $ 133 $ 198 $ 131                                  We received cash dividends of $28million in 2014, $41million in 2013 and $79million in 2012 from companies that we account for under the equity method. Undistributed earnings from equity method investments were $600million as of December31, 2014 and $488million as of December31, 2013.
91 Table of Contents DIRECTV NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(continued) Equity Securities We had investments in non-marketable equity securities of $61million as of December31, 2014 and $73million as of December31, 2013, which were stated at cost. We had investments in marketable equity securities of $1million as of December31, 2013, which were carried at fair market value. We had no investments in marketable equity securities as of December 31, 2014.
Note9: Accounts Payable and Accrued Liabilities The following table sets forth the significant components of "Accounts payable and accrued liabilities" in our Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December31: 2014 2013 (Dollars in Millions) Programming costs $ 2,521 $ 2,368 Accounts payable 1,584 1,070 Payroll and employee benefits 411 392 Other 532 855         Total accounts payable and accrued liabilities $ 5,048 $ 4,685                         As of December31, 2014, there were $23million of amounts payable to vendors for property and equipment and no amounts payable for satellites in "Accounts payable and accrued liabilities" in the Consolidated Balance Sheets, which is considered a non-cash investing activity for purposes of the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the year ended December31, 2014. As of December31, 2013 there were $70million of amounts payable to vendors for property and equipment and no amounts payable for satellites in "Accounts payable and accrued liabilities" in the Consolidated Balance Sheets, which is considered a non-cash investing activity for purposes of the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the year ended December31, 2013.
Note10: Debt The following table sets forth our outstanding debt as of December31: 2014 2013 (Dollars in Millions) Current debt Commercial paper $  $ 200 Current portion of long-term debt 1,200 1,000 Current portion of borrowings under BNDES financing facility 127 56 Long-term debt Senior notes 19,327 18,203 Borrowings under BNDES financing facility 140 81 Borrowings under Desenvolve SP financing facility 18          Total debt $ 20,812 $ 19,540                         2014 Financing Transactions In March 2014, DIRECTV U.S. issued, pursuant to a registration statement, $1,250million in aggregate principal of 4.450% senior notes due in 2024 with proceeds, net of an original issue discount, of $1,245million. We incurred $7million of debt issuance costs in connection with this transaction.
92 Table of Contents DIRECTV NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(continued) Also in March 2014, DIRECTV U.S. exercised its early redemption right under the indenture of the 4.750% senior notes due in 2014 ("the 2014 Notes") effective April24, 2014. The redemption price was based on the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest using a discount rate equal to the Treasury Rate (as defined in the indenture governing the 2014 Notes) plus 40 basis points, together with accrued and unpaid interest as of April24, 2014. The aggregate principal amount of the 2014 Notes outstanding was $1,000million and we made a cash payment of $1,022million to redeem such Notes.
In December 2014, DIRECTV U.S. issued, pursuant to a registration statement, $1,200million in aggregate principal of 3.950% senior notes due in 2025 with proceeds, net of an original issue discount, of $1,192million. We incurred $7million of debt issuance costs in connection with this transaction.
2013 Financing Transactions In January 2013, DIRECTV U.S. issued, pursuant to a registration statement, $750million in aggregate principal of 1.750% senior notes due in 2018 resulting in proceeds, net of an original issue discount, of $743million. We incurred $4million of debt issuance costs in connection with this transaction.
In May 2013, DIRECTV U.S. issued, pursuant to a registration statement, 500million ($650million) in aggregate principal of 2.750% senior notes due in 2023 resulting in proceeds, net of an original issue discount, of 497million ($646million). The U.S. dollar amounts reflect the conversion of the 500million aggregate principal and the 497million proceeds, net of discount, to U.S. dollars based on the exchange rate of 1.00/ $1.30 at May13, 2013. In connection with the issuance of these senior notes, DIRECTV U.S. entered into cross-currency swaps to effectively convert its fixed-rate Euro denominated debt, including annual interest payments and the payment of principal at maturity, to fixed-rate U.S. dollar denominated debt, as further discussed in Note11. We incurred $4million of debt issuance costs in connection with this transaction.
In November 2013, DIRECTV U.S. issued, pursuant to a registration statement, 350million ($560million) in aggregate principal of 5.200% senior notes due in 2033 resulting in proceeds, net of an original issue discount, of 349million ($558million). The U.S. dollar amounts reflect the conversion of the 350million aggregate principal and the 349million proceeds, net of discount, to U.S. dollars based on the exchange rate of 1.00/ $1.60 at November13, 2013. In connection with the issuance of these senior notes, DIRECTV U.S. entered into cross-currency swaps to effectively convert its fixed-rate British pound sterling denominated debt, including annual interest payments and the payment of principal at maturity, to fixed-rate U.S. dollar denominated debt, as further discussed in Note11. We incurred $4million of debt issuance costs in connection with this transaction.
2012 Financing Transactions In the first quarter of 2012, DIRECTV U.S. borrowed and repaid $400million under its $2billion revolving credit facility, which was terminated on September28, 2012, and replaced with a three and one-half year, $1billion revolving credit facility and a five year, $1.5billion revolving credit facility.
In March 2012, DIRECTV U.S. issued the following senior notes in private placement transactions: Principal Proceeds, net of discount (Dollars in Millions) 2.400% senior notes due in 2017 $ 1,250 $ 1,249 3.800% senior notes due in 2022 1,500 1,499 5.150% senior notes due in 2042 1,250 1,248         $ 4,000 $ 3,996                         93 Table of Contents DIRECTV NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(continued) We incurred $25million of debt issuance costs in connection with this transaction.
In May 2012, DIRECTV U.S. redeemed, pursuant to the terms of its indenture, all of its then outstanding $1,500million of 7.625% senior notes due in 2016, at a price of 103.813%, plus accrued and unpaid interest, for a total of $1,614million. We recorded a pre-tax charge of $64million ($40million after tax) during the second quarter of 2012, of which $57million resulted from the premium paid for the redemption and $7million resulted from the write-off of deferred debt issuance and other transaction costs. The charge was recorded in "Other, net" in our Consolidated Statements of Operations.
In September 2012, DIRECTV U.S. issued, pursuant to a registration statement, 750million ($1,208million) in aggregate principal of 4.375% senior notes due in 2029 resulting in proceeds, net of an original issue discount, of 742million ($1,194million). The U.S. dollar amounts reflect the conversion of the 750million aggregate principal and the 742million proceeds, net of discount, to U.S. dollars based on the exchange rate of 1.00/ $1.61 at September11, 2012. In connection with the issuance of these senior notes, DIRECTV U.S. entered into cross-currency swaps to effectively convert its fixed-rate British pound sterling denominated debt, including annual interest payments and the payment of principal at maturity, to fixed-rate U.S. dollar denominated debt, as further discussed in Note11. We incurred $9million of debt issuance costs in connection with this transaction.
In November 2012, DIRECTV U.S. established a $2.5billion commercial paper program backed by its revolving credit facilities, as discussed in further detail below. For the year ended December31, 2012, borrowings under the commercial paper program, net of repayments, were $358million.
94 Table of Contents DIRECTV NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(continued) Senior Notes The following table sets forth our outstanding senior notes balance as of December31: Principal amount Carrying value, net of unamortized original issue discounts or including premiums 2014 2014 2013 (Dollars in Millions) 4.750% senior notes due in 2014 $  $  $ 1,000 3.550% senior notes due in 2015 1,200 1,200 1,200 3.125% senior notes due in 2016 750 750 750 3.500% senior notes due in 2016 1,500 1,499 1,499 2.400% senior notes due in 2017 1,250 1,249 1,249 1.750% senior notes due in 2018 750 746 744 5.875% senior notes due in 2019 1,000 996 996 5.200% senior notes due in 2020 1,300 1,299 1,299 4.600% senior notes due in 2021 1,000 999 999 5.000% senior notes due in 2021 (1) 1,500 1,506 1,495 3.800% senior notes due in 2022 (1) 1,500 1,520 1,499 2.750% senior notes due in 2023 (2) 605 602 684 4.450% senior notes due in 2024 (1) 1,250 1,285  3.950% senior notes due in 2025 1,200 1,192  4.375% senior notes due in 2029 (2) 1,168 1,157 1,229 5.200% senior notes due in 2033 (2) 545 543 577 6.350% senior notes due in 2040 500 500 500 6.000% senior notes due in 2040 1,250 1,236 1,235 6.375% senior notes due in 2041 1,000 1,000 1,000 5.150% senior notes due in 2042 1,250 1,248 1,248            Total senior notes $ 20,518 $ 20,527 $ 19,203                                  (1) The carrying values as of December31, 2014 include the following fair value adjustments: an increase of $10million for the 5.000% senior notes due in 2021, an increase of $20million for the 3.800% senior notes due in 2022 and an increase of $39million for the 4.450% senior notes due in 2024.
(2) These amounts reflect the remeasurement of the aggregate principal and carrying value of our foreign currency denominated senior notes to U.S. dollars based on the exchange rates in effect at each of the dates presented.
The fair value of our senior notes was approximately $22,044million at December31, 2014 and $19,424million at December31, 2013. We calculated the fair values based on quoted market prices of our senior notes, which is a Level1 input under the accounting guidance for fair value measurements of assets and liabilities.
All of our senior notes were issued by DIRECTV HoldingsLLC and DIRECTV FinancingCo.,Inc., or the Co-Issuers, and have been registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
The principal amount of our senior notes mature as follows: $1,200million in 2015, $2,250million in 2016, $1,250million in 2017, $750million in 2018, $1,000million in 2019 and $14,068million thereafter.
95 Table of Contents DIRECTV NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(continued) The amount of interest accrued related to our outstanding debt was $278million at December31, 2014 and $271million at December31, 2013.
Commercial Paper DIRECTV U.S. has a commercial paper program backed by its revolving credit facilities, which provides for the issuance of short-term commercial paper in the United States up to a maximum aggregate principal of $2.5billion. As of December31, 2014 we had no short-term commercial paper outstanding. As of December31, 2013, we had $200million of short-term commercial paper outstanding, with a weighted average maturity of 133days, at a weighted average yield of 0.41%. Aggregate amounts outstanding under the revolving credit facilities described below and the commercial paper program are limited to $2.5billion.
Revolving Credit Facilities DIRECTV U.S. has a $1.0billion revolving credit facility, which expires in February 2016, and a $1.5billion revolving credit facility, which expires in September 2017. We pay a commitment fee of 0.15% per year for the unused commitment under the revolving credit facilities. Borrowings currently bear interest at a rate equal to the London Interbank Offer Rate (LIBOR) plus 1.25%. Both the commitment fee and the annual interest rate may increase or decrease under certain conditions due to changes in DIRECTV U.S.' long-term, unsecured debt ratings. Under certain conditions, DIRECTV U.S. may increase the borrowing capacity of the revolving credit facilities by an aggregate amount of up to $500million. Aggregate amounts outstanding under the revolving credit facilities and the commercial paper program are limited to $2.5billion. As of December31, 2014 and December31, 2013, there were no borrowings outstanding under the revolving credit facilities.
Borrowings under the revolving credit facilities are unsecured senior obligations of DIRECTV U.S. and will rank equally in right of payment with all of DIRECTV U.S.' existing and future senior debt and will rank senior in right of payment to all of DIRECTV U.S.' future subordinated debt, if any.
Covenants and Restrictions The revolving credit facilities require DIRECTV U.S. to maintain at the end of each fiscal quarter a specified ratio of indebtedness to earnings before interest, taxes and depreciation and amortization. The revolving credit facilities also include covenants that limit DIRECTV U.S.' ability to, among other things, (i)incur additional subsidiary indebtedness, (ii)incur liens, (iii)enter into certain transactions with affiliates, (iv)merge or consolidate with another entity, (v)sell, assign, lease or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of its assets, and (vi)change its lines of business. Additionally, the senior notes contain covenants that are similar. If DIRECTV U.S. fails to comply with these covenants, all or a portion of its borrowings under the senior notes could become immediately payable and its revolving credit facilities could be terminated. The senior notes provide that the borrowings may be required to be prepaid if certain change-in-control events, coupled with a ratings decline, occur. The revolving credit facilities provide that the borrowings may be required to be prepaid if certain change-in-control events occur.
DIRECTV Guarantors.
DIRECTV entered into a series of Supplemental Indentures whereby DIRECTV agreed to fully guarantee all of the senior notes outstanding, jointly and severally with most of DIRECTV HoldingsLLC's domestic subsidiaries. The Supplemental Indentures provide that DIRECTV unconditionally guarantees that the principal and interest on the respective senior notes will be paid in full when due and that the obligations of the Co-Issuers to the holders of the outstanding senior notes will be performed. The revolving credit facilities and the commercial paper program are also similarly fully guaranteed by DIRECTV.
As a result of the guarantees, holders of the senior notes, the revolving credit debt and the commercial paper have the benefit of DIRECTV's interests in the assets and related earnings of our operations that are not held 96 Table of Contents DIRECTV NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(continued) through DIRECTV HoldingsLLC and its subsidiaries. Those operations are primarily our DTH digital television services throughout Latin America which are held by DIRECTV Latin America and our regional sports networks which are held by DSN. However, the subsidiaries that own and operate the DIRECTV Latin America business and the regional sports networks have not guaranteed the senior notes, the revolving credit facilities and the commercial paper program.
The guarantees are unsecured senior obligations of DIRECTV and rank equally in right of payment with all of DIRECTV's existing and future senior debt and rank senior in right of payment to all of DIRECTV's future subordinated debt, if any. The guarantees are effectively subordinated to all existing and future secured obligations, if any, of DIRECTV to the extent of the value of the assets securing the obligations. DIRECTV is not subject to the covenants contained in each indenture of the senior notes and our guarantees will terminate and be released on the terms set forth in each of the indentures.
Desenvolve SP Financing Facility In the second quarter of 2014, Sky Brasil entered into a Brazilian real denominated financing facility with Desenvolve SP, an agency created by the Sao Paulo State Government for economic development, under which Sky Brasil may borrow funds for the construction of a satellite and broadcast facility. Each borrowing under the facility, including accrued interest, will be repaid in a single installment five years from the date of such borrowing. The financing facility is secured by a third party bank guarantee. As of December31, 2014, Sky Brasil had borrowings of R$48million ($18million) under the facility bearing interest of 2.5% per year, with a maturity of 2019. The U.S. dollar amounts reflect the conversion of the Brazilian real denominated amounts into U.S. dollars based on the exchange rate of R$2.66 / $1.00 at December31, 2014.
BNDES Financing Facility In March 2013, Sky Brasil entered into a Brazilian real denominated financing facility with Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento Econmico e Social, or BNDES, a government owned bank in Brazil, under which Sky Brasil may borrow funds for the purchase of set-top receivers. As of December31, 2014, Sky Brasil had borrowings of R$710million ($267million) outstanding under the BNDES facility bearing interest at a weighted-average rate of 5.11% per year. As of December31, 2013, Sky Brasil had borrowings of R$320million ($137million) outstanding under the BNDES facility bearing interest at a weighted-average rate of 3.07% per year. Borrowings under the facility are required to be repaid in 30monthly installments. The U.S. dollar amounts reflect the conversion of the Brazilian real denominated amounts into U.S. dollars based on the exchange rates of R$2.66 / $1.00 and R$2.34 / $1.00 as of December31, 2014 and December31, 2013, respectively.
Borrowings under the BNDES facility mature as follows: R$338million ($127million) in 2015, R$274million ($103million) in 2016 and R$98million ($37million) in 2017. The financing facility is collateralized by the financed set-top receivers with an original purchase price of approximately R$1,024million ($385million) based on the exchange rate of R$2.66 / $1.00 as of December31, 2014.
Restricted Cash Restricted cash of $10million as of December31, 2014 and $7million as of December31, 2013 is included as part of "Prepaid expenses and other" in our Consolidated Balance Sheets. These amounts secure certain of our letter of credit obligations and restrictions on the cash will be removed as the letters of credit expire.
97 Table of Contents DIRECTV NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(continued) Note11: Derivative Financial Instruments We use derivative financial instruments primarily to manage the risks associated with fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. We do not use derivatives for trading or speculative purposes. We record derivative financial instruments in the Consolidated Balance Sheets as either assets or liabilities at fair value. We calculate the fair value of derivative contracts using an income-approach model (discounted cash flow analysis), the use of which is considered a Level2 valuation technique, using observable inputs, such as yield curves, foreign currency exchange rates, and incorporating counterparty credit risk, as applicable. For derivative financial instruments designated as fair value hedges, the change in the fair value of both the derivative instrument and the hedged item are recognized in earnings in the current period. For derivative financial instruments designated as cash flow hedges, the effective portion of the unrealized gains or losses on the derivative financial instruments are initially reported in "Accumulated other comprehensive loss" in the Consolidated Balance Sheets, and subsequently reclassified to earnings in the same periods during which the hedged item affects earnings. The ineffective portion of the unrealized gains and losses on these derivative financial instruments, if any, is recorded immediately in earnings. We evaluate the effectiveness of our derivative financial instruments at inception and on a quarterly basis.
The following table sets forth the fair values of assets and liabilities associated with the derivative financial instruments as of: Assets Liabilities December31, 2014 December31, 2013 December31, 2014 December31, 2013 (Dollars in millions) Cash flow hedges: Cross-currency swap contracts $ 8 $ 112 $ 24 $  Interest rate swap contracts  3  1 Fair value hedges: Interest rate swap contracts 12  6                Total derivative financial instruments $ 20 $ 115 $ 30 $ 1                                           The fair values of the assets associated with derivative financial instruments are recorded in "Investments and other assets" in the Consolidated Balance Sheets and the fair values of the liabilities associated with derivative financial instruments are recorded in "Other liabilities and deferred credits" in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
The following table sets forth the notional amounts of outstanding derivative financial instruments as of: December31, 2014 December31, 2013 (Dollars in millions) Cash flow hedges: Cross-currency swap contracts $ 2,418 $ 2,418 Interest rate swaps  500 Fair value hedges: Interest rate swaps 3,000          Total notional amount of derivative financial instruments $ 5,418 $ 2,918                         Collateral Arrangements.
We have agreements with our derivative instrument counterparties that include collateral provisions which require a party with an unrealized loss position in excess of certain thresholds to post cash collateral for the amount in excess of the threshold. The threshold levels in our collateral agreements are 98 Table of Contents DIRECTV NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(continued) based on each party's credit ratings. We held no cash collateral from counterparties as of December31, 2014 and held $10million of cash collateral from counterparties as of December31, 2013. We did not have any cash collateral posted with counterparties as of December31, 2014 and December31, 2013. We do not offset the fair value of collateral, whether the right to reclaim cash collateral (a receivable) or the obligation to return cash collateral (a payable), against the fair value of the derivative instruments.
Cross-Currency Swap Contracts On September11, 2012, DIRECTV U.S. issued, pursuant to a U.S. registration statement, 750million in aggregate principal of 4.375% senior notes due in 2029. On May13, 2013, DIRECTV U.S. issued, pursuant to a U.S. registration statement, 500million in aggregate principal of 2.750% senior notes due in 2023. On November13, 2013, DIRECTV U.S. issued, pursuant to a U.S. registration statement, 350million in aggregate principal of 5.200% senior notes due in 2033. In connection with the issuance of these senior notes, DIRECTV U.S. entered into cross-currency swap contracts to manage the related foreign exchange risk by effectively converting all of the fixed-rate British pound sterling and fixed-rate Euro denominated debt, including annual interest payments and the payment of principal at maturity, to fixed-rate U.S. dollar denominated debt. These cross-currency swaps are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges. The terms of the cross-currency swap contracts correspond to the related hedged senior notes and have the same maturities as that of the hedged senior notes.
We calculate the fair value of the cross-currency swap contracts using an income-approach model (discounted cash flow analysis), the use of which is considered a Level2 valuation technique, using observable inputs, such as foreign currency exchange rates, swap rates, cross-currency basis swap spreads and incorporating counterparty credit risk.
During 2014, DIRECTV U.S. recorded net remeasurement gains of $189million in "Other, net" in the Consolidated Statements of Operations related to the remeasurement of the hedged senior notes. To offset these remeasurement gains, we reclassified $189million ($117million after tax) from "Accumulated other comprehensive loss" in the Consolidated Balance Sheets to "Other, net" in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. During 2013, DIRECTV U.S. recorded net remeasurement losses of $80million in "Other, net" in the Consolidated Statements of Operations related to the remeasurement of the hedged senior notes. To offset these remeasurement losses, we reclassified $80million ($49million after tax) from "Accumulated other comprehensive loss" in the Consolidated Balance Sheets to "Other, net" in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. These reclassifications eliminate the impact of the remeasurement of the hedged senior notes from our results of operations. We measured no ineffectiveness for the years ended December31, 2014 and December31, 2013 related to these cross-currency swap contracts.
Interest Rate Lock Contracts Periodically we enter into interest rate lock contracts such as forward starting swaps and treasury locks to hedge against changes in interest payments attributable to changes in the benchmark interest rate during the period leading up to a forecasted issuance of fixed rate debt. These interest rate locks are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges. On March17, 2014, DIRECTV U.S. issued $1,250million in aggregate principal of 4.450% senior notes due in 2024. In connection with this transaction, DIRECTV U.S. settled all then-outstanding forward-starting interest rate swaps, which were previously entered into to protect against unfavorable interest rate changes related to the forecasted issuance of debt. These interest rate swaps were designated and qualified as cash flow hedges. As a result of settling these forward-starting interest rate swaps, we recognized $1million of ineffectiveness in earnings during 2014. As of December31, 2014, we had recorded $9million in "Accumulated other comprehensive loss" in the Consolidated Balance Sheets related to these 99 Table of Contents DIRECTV NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(continued) forward-starting interest rate swaps that is being recognized as interest expense over the term of the 4.450% senior notes due in 2024.
Fixed-to-Floating Interest Rate Swap Contracts DIRECTV U.S. may enter into fixed-to-floating interest rate swap contracts from time to time in order to manage its interest rate exposure. We designate such swaps as fair value hedges. Depending on market conditions, the mix of our fixed interest rate and floating interest rate debt and other factors, we may periodically discontinue these fair value hedges and terminate our fixed-to-floating interest rate swap contracts by settling the contracts or by entering into offsetting contracts.
During 2014, DIRECTV U.S. entered into interest rate swap contracts with a total notional amount of $3,000million, converting a portion of the total aggregate principal amounts of the 5.000% senior notes due in 2021, the 3.800% senior notes due in 2022 and the 4.450% senior notes due in 2024 from a fixed to floating interest rate. Also during 2014, DIRECTV U.S. discontinued the fair value hedges and settled certain of those fixed-to-floating interest rate swap contracts. As a result of these settlements, DIRECTV U.S. received cash proceeds in the aggregate of $104million, which are included in "Net cash provided by operations" in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. As of December31, 2014, there was $67million of favorable adjustments to the carrying value of the senior notes, which will be amortized to "Interest expense" in the Consolidated Statements of Operations over the remaining term of the hedged senior notes. In connection with the settlement of the fixed-to-floating interest rate swap contracts, we recognized a $26million gain in "Other, net" in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. The total notional amount of DIRECTV U.S.' fixed-to-floating interest rate swaps was $3,000million as of December31, 2014; however these swaps were settled in the first quarter of 2015.
We calculate the fair value of the interest rate swap contracts using an income-approach model (discounted cash flow analysis), the use of which is considered a Level2 valuation technique, using observable inputs, such as yield curves. The difference between the change in the fair value of these interest rate swap contracts and the fair value of the related senior notes as a result of changes in the benchmark interest rate was a $39million gain for the year ended December31, 2014, which was recognized in "Other, net" in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. The periodic interest settlements for the interest rate swap contracts are recorded in "Interest expense" in the Consolidated Statements of Operations.
Note12: Income Taxes We base our income tax expense or benefit on reported "Income before income taxes." Deferred income tax assets and liabilities reflect the impact of temporary differences between the amounts of assets and liabilities recognized for financial reporting purposes and such amounts recognized for tax purposes, as measured by applying currently enacted tax laws.
100 Table of Contents DIRECTV NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(continued) "Income tax expense" in the Consolidated Statements of Operations consisted of the following for the years ended December31: 2014 2013 2012 (Dollars in Millions) Current tax expense: U.S. federal $ 1,296 $ 911 $ 980 Foreign 240 293 309 State and local 102 176 113            Total 1,638 1,380 1,402            Deferred tax expense (benefit): U.S. federal (56 ) 224 (25 ) Foreign 38 34 63 State and local 53 (35 ) 25            Total 35 223 63            Total income tax expense $ 1,673 $ 1,603 $ 1,465                                  "Income before income taxes" in the Consolidated Statements of Operations included the following components for the years ended December31: 2014 2013 2012 (Dollars in Millions) U.S. income $ 3,853 $ 3,509 $ 3,442 Foreign income 595 979 1,000            Total $ 4,448 $ 4,488 $ 4,442                                  Our income tax expense was different than the amount computed using the U.S. federal statutory income tax rate for the reasons set forth in the following table for the years ended December31: 2014 2013 2012 (Dollars in Millions) Expected expense at U.S. federal statutory income tax rate $ 1,557 $ 1,571 $ 1,555 U.S. state and local income tax expense, net of federal benefit 71 91 87 Change in unrecognized tax benefits and settlements 28 (28 ) (154 ) Foreign taxes, net of federal tax benefits (49 ) (21 ) (3 ) Change in valuation allowance  (16 ) 3 Currency devaluation 121 29  Tax credits (79 ) (44 ) (30 ) Other 24 21 7            Total income tax expense $ 1,673 $ 1,603 $ 1,465                                  101 Table of Contents DIRECTV NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(continued) Temporary differences and carryforwards that gave rise to deferred tax assets and liabilities at December31 were as follows: 2014 2013 Deferred Tax Assets Deferred Tax Liabilities Deferred Tax Assets Deferred Tax Liabilities (Dollars in Millions) Accruals and advances $ 433 $ 313 $ 471 $ 275 Prepaid expenses  40  32 State taxes 52  33  Depreciation, amortization and asset impairment charges  1,785  1,745 Net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards 842  847  Programming contract liabilities 33  18  Unrealized foreign exchange gains or losses  11  23 Tax basis differences in investments and affiliates 219 837 203 853 Other  1  10               Subtotal 1,579 2,987 1,572 2,938 Valuation allowance (346 )  (367 )                Total deferred taxes $ 1,233 $ 2,987 $ 1,205 $ 2,938                                           Included in "Prepaid expenses and other" in the Consolidated Balance Sheets are $465million at December31, 2014 and $423million at December31, 2013 of prepaid income taxes. Included in "Investments and other assets" in the Consolidated Balance Sheets are $18million at December31, 2014 of long term prepaid income taxes and $1million at December31, 2013 of noncurrent deferred tax assets. Included in "Accounts payable and accrued liabilities" in the Consolidated Balance Sheets are $97million at December31, 2014 and $70million at December31, 2013 of current deferred tax liabilities.
We assessed the deferred tax assets for the respective periods for recoverability and, where applicable, we recorded a valuation allowance to reduce the total deferred tax assets to an amount that will, more likely than not, be realized in the future.
The valuation allowance balances of $346million at December31, 2014 and $367million at December31, 2013, are primarily attributable to unused foreign net operating losses which are available for carry forward. For the year ended December31, 2014, the decrease in the valuation allowance was primarily attributable to a reduction in the deferred tax asset on foreign net operating losses due to currency fluctuations.
Although realization is not assured, we have concluded that it is more likely than not that our unreserved deferred tax assets will be realized in the ordinary course of operations based on available positive and negative evidence, including scheduling of deferred tax liabilities and projected income from operating activities. The underlying assumptions we use in forecasting future taxable income require significant judgment and take into account our recent performance.
As of December31, 2014, we have $23million of federal net operating loss carryforward which expires between 2027 and 2032. The utilization of the federal net operating loss carryforward is subject to an annual limitation under Section382 of the Internal Revenue Code, however we believe that we will have sufficient taxable income during the limitation period to utilize all of the carryforward. We also have foreign tax credit carryovers of $221million which expire between 2016 and 2024, state net operating loss carryforwards of $2million which expire in 2030, and approximately $1.3billion of foreign net operating losses that are primarily attributable to operations in Brazil with varying expiration dates.
102 Table of Contents DIRECTV NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(continued) As a result of the currency exchange process in Venezuela since 2010, exclusive of the payment of some intercompany obligations, we have been unable to repatriate excess cash balances. As of December31, 2014, the cumulative amount of earnings upon which U.S. income taxes have not been provided is approximately $558million. Should these earnings be distributed in the form of dividends, the distributions would be subject to U.S. federal income tax at the statutory rate of 35percent, less foreign tax credits available to offset such distributions. Because the time or manner of repatriation is uncertain, we cannot determine the impact of local taxes, withholding taxes and foreign tax credits associated with the future repatriation of such earnings and therefore cannot quantify the potential tax liability.
No income tax provision has been made for the portion of undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries, excluding Venezuela, deemed permanently reinvested that amounted to approximately $103million in 2014. It is not practicable to determine the amount of the unrecognized deferred tax liability related to the investments in these foreign subsidiaries.
A reconciliation of the beginning and ending balances of the total amounts of gross unrecognized tax benefits is as follows: Gross Unrecognized Tax Benefits (Dollars in Millions) Balance as of January1, 2012 $ 390 Increases in tax positions for the current year 35 Decreases in tax positions for prior years (6 ) Expirations of the statute of limitations (141 )      Balance as of December31, 2012 278 Increases in tax positions for prior years 126 Decreases in tax positions for prior years (3 ) Increases in tax positions for the current year 214 Settlements with taxing authorities (25 ) Expirations of the statute of limitations (1 )      Balance as of December31, 2013 589 Increases in tax positions for prior years 47 Decreases in tax positions for prior years (53 ) Increases in tax positions for the current year 209 Settlements with taxing authorities (6 ) Expirations of the statute of limitations (2 )      Balance as of December31, 2014 $ 784                As of December31, 2014, our unrecognized tax benefits totaled $784million, including $669million of tax positions the recognition of which would affect the annual effective income tax rate.
We recorded interest and penalties accrued related to unrecognized tax benefits of $12million in 2014, $38million in 2013 and $12million in 2012 in "Income tax expense" in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. We have accrued, as part of our liability for unrecognized tax benefits, interest and penalties of $67million as of December31, 2014, and $70million as of December31, 2013.
We file numerous consolidated and separate income tax returns in the U.S. federal jurisdiction and in many state and foreign jurisdictions. For U.S. federal tax purposes, the tax years 2010 through 2013 remain open for examination. The California tax years 2001 through 2013 remain open to examination and the income tax 103 Table of Contents DIRECTV NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(continued) returns in the other state and foreign tax jurisdictions in which we have operations are generally subject to examination for a period of three years after filing of the respective return including any amendments.
We engage in continuous discussions and negotiations with federal, state, and foreign taxing authorities and reevaluate our uncertain tax positions, and, while it is often difficult to predict the final outcome or the timing of resolution of any particular tax matter or tax position, we believe that our unrecognized tax benefits will not change materially during the next twelve months.
Note13: Capital Lease Obligations We include the current and noncurrent portions of the present value of the net minimum lease payments under capital leases for satellites and vehicles in "Accounts payable and accrued liabilities" and "Other liabilities and deferred credits" in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The following table sets forth the present value of the net minimum lease payments under capital leases for satellites and vehicles as of December31, 2014, along with total minimum lease payments for each of the years ending December31: Minimum Lease Payments (Dollars in Millions) 2015 $ 149 2016 145 2017 137 2018 125 2019 120 Thereafter 598      Total minimum lease payments 1,274 Less: Amount representing interest (292 )      Present value of net minimum lease payments $ 982                Excluded from the table above are future payments under the contract for the lease of the ISDLA-2 satellite currently under construction for DIRECTV Latin America, which we will account for as a capital lease at the time the satellite is placed into service. See Note21 for further discussion.
We include assets held under capitalized leases in "Satellites, net" and "Property and Equipment, net" in our Consolidated Balance Sheets. The following table sets forth assets held under capital leases as of December31: 2014 2013 (DollarsinMillions) Satellites under capital leases $ 1,116 $ 484 Less: Accumulated amortization (311 ) (251 )         Satellites, net under capital leases $ 805 $ 233                         Property and equipment under capital leases $ 149 $ 140 Less: Accumulated amortization (74 ) (53 )         Property and equipment, net under capital leases $ 75 $ 87                         We paid interest for capital leases of $37million in 2014, $41million in 2013 and $47million in 2012.
104 Table of Contents DIRECTV NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(continued) Note14: Pension and Other Postretirement Benefit Plans Most of our employees are eligible to participate in our funded non-contributory defined benefit pension plan, which provides defined benefits based on either years of service and final average salary, or eligible compensation while employed by us. Additionally, we maintain a funded contributory defined benefit plan for employees who elected to participate prior to 1991, and an unfunded, nonqualified pension plan for certain eligible employees. For participants in the contributory pension plan, we also maintain a postretirement benefit plan for those retirees eligible to participate in health care and life insurance benefits generally until they reach age 65. Participants may become eligible for these health care and life insurance benefits if they retire from our company between the ages of 55 and 65. The health care plan is contributory with participants' contributions subject to adjustment annually; the life insurance plan is non-contributory.
The components of the pension benefit obligation and the other postretirement benefit obligation, including amounts recognized in the Consolidated Balance Sheets, are shown below for the years ended December31: Pension Benefits Other Postretirement Benefits 2014 2013 2014 2013 (Dollars in Millions) Change in Net Benefit Obligation Net benefit obligation at beginning of year $ 568 $ 664 $ 18 $ 21 Service cost 37 38 1 1 Interest cost 27 27 1 1 Plan participants' contributions 1 1   Actuarial (gain) loss 81 (12 ) 1 (4 ) Benefits paid (39 ) (41 ) (1 ) (1 ) Plan change (33 )    Settlements  (109 )                 Net benefit obligation at end of year 642 568 20 18               Change in Plan Assets Fair value of plan assets at beginning of year 407 495   Actual return on plan assets 33 54   Employer contributions 26 7 1 1 Plan participants' contributions 1 1   Benefits paid (39 ) (41 ) (1 ) (1 ) Settlements  (109 )                 Fair value of plan assets at end of year 428 407                 Funded status at end of year $ (214 ) $ (161 ) $ (20 ) $ (18 )                                           Amounts recognized in the consolidated balance sheets consist of: Accounts payable and accrued liabilities $ (14 ) $ (9 ) $ (1 ) $ (1 ) Other liabilities and deferred credits (200 ) (152 ) (19 ) (17 ) Accumulated other comprehensive (gain) loss 141 126 (2 ) (3 ) Amounts recognized in the accumulated other comprehensive loss consist of: Unamortized net amount resulting from changes in defined benefit plan experience and actuarial assumptions, net of taxes 162 125 (2 ) (3 ) Unamortized amount resulting from changes in defined benefit plan provisions, net of taxes (21 ) 1                 Total $ 141 $ 126 $ (2 ) $ (3 )                                           105 Table of Contents DIRECTV NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(continued) We estimate that the following amounts will be amortized from "Accumulated other comprehensive loss" in the Consolidated Balance Sheets into net periodic benefit cost during the year ending December31, 2015: Pension Benefits Other Postretirement Benefits (Dollars in Millions) Expense resulting from changes in plan experience and actuarial assumptions $ 23 $  Credit resulting from changes in plan provisions (4 )  The accumulated benefit obligation for all pension plans was $583million at December31, 2014 and $493million as of December31, 2013.
Information for pension plans with an accumulated benefit obligation in excess of plan assets as of December31: 2014 2013 (Dollars in Millions) Accumulated benefit obligation $ 583 $ 97 Fair value of plan assets 428  Information for pension plans with a projected benefit obligation in excess of plan assets as of December31: 2014 2013 (Dollars in Millions) Projected benefit obligation $ 642 $ 568 Fair value of plan assets 428 407 Components of net periodic benefit cost for the years ended December31: Pension Benefits Other Postretirement Benefits 2014 2013 2012 2014 2013 2012 (Dollars in Millions) Components of net periodic benefit cost Benefits earned during the year $ 37 $ 38 $ 32 $ 1 $ 1 $ 1 Interest accrued on benefits earned in prior years 27 27 30 1 1 1 Expected return on plan assets (28 ) (35 ) (34 )    Amortization components Amount resulting from changes in plan provisions 1 1 1    Net amount resulting from changes in plan experience and actuarial assumptions 16 28 19    Settlement loss  39                         Net periodic benefit cost $ 53 $ 98 $ 48 $ 2 $ 2 $ 2                                                             106 Table of Contents DIRECTV NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(continued) Assumptions Weighted-average assumptions used to determine benefit obligations at December31: Pension Benefits Other Postretirement Benefits 2014 2013 2014 2013 Discount rateQualified Plans 3.97 % 4.86 % 3.74 % 4.37 % Discount rateNon-Qualified Plans 3.83 % 4.75 %  %  % Rate of compensation increase 4.00 % 4.00 % 4.00 % 4.00 % Weighted-average assumptions used to determine net periodic benefit cost for the years ended December31: Pension Benefits Other Postretirement Benefits 2014 2013 2012 2014 2013 2012 Discount rateQualified Plan 4.86 % 3.92 % 4.99 % 4.37 % 3.47 % 4.48 % Discount rateNon-Qualified Plans 4.75 % 3.91 % 4.92 %  %  %  % Expected long-term return on plan assets 7.50 % 7.50 % 7.75 %  %  %  % Rate of compensation increase 4.00 % 4.00 % 4.00 % 4.00 % 4.00 % 4.00 % We base our expected long-term return on plan assets assumption on a periodic review and modeling of the plans' asset allocation and liability structure over a long-term horizon. Expectations of returns for each asset class are the most important of the assumptions used in the review and modeling and are based on the forward looking expectations for asset class returns, historical data and economic/financial market theory.
The following table provides assumed health care costs trend rates: 2014 2013 2012 Health care cost trend rate 7.00 % 7.50 % 8.00 % Rate to which the cost trend rate is assumed to decline (ultimate trend rate) 5.00 % 5.00 % 5.00 % Year that trend rate reaches the ultimate trend rate 2019 2018 2017 Plan Assets Our investment policy includes various guidelines and procedures designed to ensure we invest assets in a manner necessary to meet expected future benefits earned by participants. The investment guidelines consider a broad range of economic conditions. Central to the policy are target allocation ranges by major asset categories. The policy range for plan assets are 20% to 60% equity securities, 30% to 50% debt securities, 0% to 40% alternatives and other types of investments.
The objectives of the target allocations are to maintain investment portfolios that diversify risk through prudent asset allocation parameters, achieve asset returns that meet or exceed the plans' actuarial assumptions, and achieve asset returns that are competitive with like institutions employing similar investment strategies.
The investment policy is periodically reviewed by us and a designated third-party fiduciary for investment matters. We establish and administer the policy in a manner so as to comply at all times with applicable government regulations.
107 Table of Contents DIRECTV NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(continued) The fair value measurements of the plan assets as of December31, 2014 were as follows: Fair Value Measurements as of December31, 2014 Total Quoted Prices in Active Markets for Identical Assets (Level1) Significant Observable Inputs (Level2) Significant Unobservable Inputs (Level3) Percentage of Plan Assets as of December31, 2014 (Dollars in millions) Asset Category Common collective trusts Cash and cash equivalents $ 3 $  $ 3 $  1 % Equity securities: U.S. large-cap 72  72  17 % U.S. mid-cap growth 16  16  4 % International large-cap value 80  80  19 % Emerging markets growth 5  5  1 % Domestic real estate 24 24   6 % Fixed income 158  158  37 % Partnership and joint venture interests 26   26 6 % Insurance contracts at contract value 2  2   % Hedge funds 42   42 9 %                  Total $ 428 $ 24 $ 336 $ 68 100 %                                                    The fair value measurements of the plan assets as of December31, 2013 were as follows: Fair Value Measurements as of December31, 2013 Total Quoted Prices in Active Markets for Identical Assets (Level1) Significant Observable Inputs (Level2) Significant Unobservable Inputs (Level3) Percentage of Plan Assets as of December31, 2013 (Dollars in millions) Asset Category Common collective trusts Cash and cash equivalents $ 6 $  $ 6 $  1 % Equity securities: U.S. large-cap 58  58  14 % U.S. mid-cap growth 15  15  4 % International large-cap value 69  69  17 % Emerging markets growth 5  5  1 % Domestic real estate 27 27   7 % Fixed income 144  144  35 % Partnership and joint venture interests 31   31 8 % Insurance contracts at contract value 2  2   % Hedge funds 50   50 13 %                  Total $ 407 $ 27 $ 299 $ 81 100 %                                                    There were no directly owned shares of DIRECTV common stock included in plan assets as of December31, 2014 and 2013.
108 Table of Contents DIRECTV NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(continued) The fair value measurement of plan assets using significant unobservable inputs (Level3) changed during 2013 and 2014 due to the following: Partnerships and Joint Venture Interests Hedge Funds Total (Dollars in Millions) Balance as of January1, 2013 $ 31 $ 44 $ 75 Unrealized gains 2 6 8 Purchases and sales (2 )  (2 )            Balance as of December31, 2013 31 50 81 Realized gains (losses) (1 ) 2 1 Purchases and sales (4 ) (10 ) (14 )            Balance as of December31, 2014 $ 26 $ 42 $ 68                                  Cash Flows Contributions We expect to contribute approximately $30million to our qualified pension plans and make payments of $13million to our nonqualified pension plan participants in 2015.
Estimated Future Benefit Payments We expect the following benefit payments, which reflect expected future service, as appropriate, to be paid by the plans during the years ending December31: Estimated Future Benefit Payments Pension Benefits Other Postretirement Benefits (Dollars in Millions) 2015 $ 44 $ 1 2016 58 1 2017 58 2 2018 52 2 2019 53 2 2020-2024 292 10 We maintain 401(k) plans for qualified employees. We match a portion of our employee contributions and our match amounted to $37million in 2014, $34million in 2013 and $30million in 2012.
We have disclosed certain amounts associated with estimated future postretirement benefits other than pensions and characterized such amounts as "other postretirement benefit obligation." Notwithstanding the recording of such amounts and the use of these terms, we do not admit or otherwise acknowledge that such amounts or existing postretirement benefit plans of our company (other than pensions) represent legally enforceable liabilities of us.
109 Table of Contents DIRECTV NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(continued) Note15: Stockholders' Deficit and Noncontrolling Interest Capital Stock and Additional Paid-In Capital Our certificate of incorporation provides for the following capital stock: 3,950,000,000 shares of common stock, par value $0.01 per share, and 50,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value $0.01 per share. The DIRECTV common stock is entitled to one vote per share and trades on the NASDAQ, under the ticker "DTV". As of December31, 2014 and December31, 2013, there were no outstanding shares of preferred stock.
Noncontrolling Interest In connection with our acquisition of Sky Brasil in 2006, our partner who holds the remaining 7% interest, Globo Comunicaes e ParticipaesS.A., or Globo, was granted the right, until January 2014, to require us to purchase all, but not less than all, of its shares in Sky Brasil. Globo did not exercise its right to require us to purchase its shares in Sky Brasil. That right has now expired and the noncontrolling interest is no longer redeemable. In accordance with Accounting Standards Codification 480, Distinguishing Liabilities from Equity , during the first quarter of 2014, we reclassified $375million, which was the fair value of Globo's remaining 7% interest, from "Redeemable noncontrolling interest" to "Noncontrolling interest," a component of stockholders' deficit in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. During the first quarter of 2014, we discontinued fair value accounting for this equity instrument.
Share Repurchase Program Since 2006 our Board of Directors has approved multiple authorizations for the repurchase of our common stock. In February 2014 our Board of Directors approved an authorization for up to $3.5billion for repurchases of our common stock. On May18, 2014 DIRECTV and AT&T entered into a definitive agreement, under which AT&T would combine with DIRECTV in a stock and cash transaction. As a result, we have suspended the share repurchase program and agreed to not purchase, repurchase, redeem or otherwise acquire any shares of our capital stock during the pendency of the proposed transaction and without AT&T's consent.
The following table sets forth information regarding shares repurchased and retired for the years ended December31: 2014 2013 2012 (Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts) Total cost of repurchased and retired shares $ 1,386 $ 4,000 $ 5,148 Average price per share $ 73.82 $ 57.54 $ 48.24 Number of shares repurchased and retired 19 70 107 110 Table of Contents DIRECTV NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(continued) Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) The following table sets forth the components of "Other comprehensive income (loss)" in the Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income for the years ended December31: 2014 2013 2012 Pre-tax Amount Tax Benefit (Expense) Net Amount Pre-tax Amount Tax Benefit (Expense) Net Amount Pre-tax Amount Tax Benefit (Expense) Net Amount (Dollars in Millions) Defined benefit plans: Gains (losses) related to changes in plan experience and actuarial assumptions arising during the period $ (78 ) $ 29 $ (49 ) $ 35 $ (13 ) $ 22 $ (73 ) $ 28 $ (45 ) Prior service credit arising during the period 33 (12 ) 21       Amortizationofamountsresulting fromchangesinplanexperienceand actuarial assumptions recognized as periodic benefit cost(1) 16 (6 ) 10 66 (28 ) 38 19 (7 ) 12 Amortization of amounts resulting from changes in plan provisions recognized as periodic benefit cost(1)    2 (1 ) 1    Cash flow hedges: Unrealized gains (losses) arising during the period (142 ) 55 (87 ) 129 (49 ) 80 (16 ) 6 (10 ) Reclassification adjustments included in "Other, net" 189 (72 ) 117 (80 ) 31 (49 ) (11 ) 4 (7 ) Foreign currency translation adjustments (146 ) 38 (108 ) (223 ) 50 (173 ) (53 ) 21 (32 ) Available for sale securities: Unrealized holding losses on securities       (7 ) 3 (4 ) Reclassification adjustment for net losses recognized during period in "Other, net"    2 (1 ) 1                                 Other comprehensive loss $ (128 ) $ 32 $ (96 ) $ (69 ) $ (11 ) $ (80 ) $ (141 ) $ 55 $ (86 )                                                                                        (1) Amortization of accumulated other comprehensive income components related to defined benefits plans are included in the computation of net period pension costs (See Note14).
111 Table of Contents DIRECTV NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(continued) Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss The following represents the changes in the components of "Accumulated other comprehensive loss" in the Consolidated Balance Sheets for each of the years presented: Defined Benefit Plan Items Gains (Losses) on Cash Flow Hedges Foreign Currency Items Unrealized Gains (Losses) on Available for Sale Securities Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss (Dollars in Millions) Balance as of January1, 2012 $ (151 ) $  $ (8 ) $ 3 $ (156 ) Other comprehensive loss (33 ) (17 ) (32 ) (4 ) (86 )                  Balance as of December31, 2012 (184 ) (17 ) (40 ) (1 ) (242 ) Other comprehensive income (loss) 61 31 (173 ) 1 (80 )                  Balance as of December31, 2013 (123 ) 14 (213 )  (322 ) Other comprehensive income (loss) (18 ) 30 (108 )  (96 )                  Balance as of December31, 2014 $ (141 ) $ 44 $ (321 ) $  $ (418 )                                                    Note16: Earnings Per Common Share We compute basic earnings per common share, or EPS, by dividing net income by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding for the period.
Diluted EPS considers the effect of common equivalent shares, which consist entirely of common stock options and unvested restricted stock units issued to employees. During the years ended December31, 2013 and December31, 2012 we excluded 1million common stock options from the computation of diluted EPS because the inclusion of the potential common shares would have had an antidilutive effect.
112 Table of Contents DIRECTV NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(continued) The reconciliation of the amounts used in the basic and diluted EPS computation was as follows: Income Shares Per Share Amounts (Dollars and Shares in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts) Year Ended December31, 2014: Basic EPS Net income attributable to DIRECTV $ 2,756 505 $ 5.46 Effect of dilutive securities Dilutive effect of stock options and restricted stock units  5 (0.06 )            Diluted EPS Adjusted net income attributable to DIRECTV $ 2,756 510 $ 5.40                                  Year Ended December31, 2013: Basic EPS Net income attributable to DIRECTV $ 2,859 548 $ 5.22 Effect of dilutive securities Dilutive effect of stock options and restricted stock units  5 (0.05 )            Diluted EPS Adjusted net income attributable to DIRECTV $ 2,859 553 $ 5.17                                  Year Ended December31, 2012: Basic EPS Net income attributable to DIRECTV $ 2,949 638 $ 4.62 Effect of dilutive securities Dilutive effect of stock options and restricted stock units  6 (0.04 )            Diluted EPS Adjusted net income attributable to DIRECTV $ 2,949 644 $ 4.58                                  Note17: Share-Based Compensation Under the DIRECTV 2010 Stock Plan, or the DIRECTV Plan, as approved by DIRECTV stockholders on June3, 2010, and as amended by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors on December19, 2013, shares, rights or options to acquire up to 40million shares of common stock plus (i)the number of shares that are subject to available and outstanding awards as of December19, 2013, referred to as Outstanding Award Shares, plus (ii)the number of shares of common stock constituting outstanding award shares but which, after December19, 2013, are forfeited, expire or are canceled without the delivery of shares of common stock or otherwise result in the return of such shares to us, were authorized for grant through June2, 2020, subject to the approval of the Compensation Committee of our Board of Directors. Under the DIRECTV Plan, we issue new shares of our common stock when restricted stock units are distributed and when stock options are exercised.
113 Table of Contents DIRECTV NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(continued) The following table presents amounts recorded related to share-based compensation: For the Years Ended December31, 2014 2013 2012 (Dollars in Millions) Share-based compensation expense recognized $ 104 $ 100 $ 109 Tax benefits associated with share-based compensation expense 38 37 41 Actual tax benefits realized for the deduction of share-based compensation expense 56 66 60 As of December31, 2014, there was $116million of total unrecognized compensation expense related to unvested restricted stock units and stock options that we expect to recognize as follows: $75million in 2015, $38million in 2016 and $3million in 2017.
Restricted Stock Units The Compensation Committee has granted restricted stock units under our stock plan to certain of our employees and executives. Annual awards are mostly performance based, generally vest over three years and provide for final payments in shares of our common stock. Final payment can be increased or decreased from the target award amounts based on our performance over a three-year performance period in comparison with pre-established targets. We determine the fair value of restricted stock units based on the closing stock price of our common shares on the date of grant.
Changes in the status of outstanding restricted stock units were as follows: Stock Units Weighted-Average Grant-Date Fair Value Nonvested at January1, 2014 5,813,983 $ 47.40 Granted 1,614,990 76.11 Vested and distributed (2,085,056 ) 44.29 Forfeited (239,511 ) 58.76         Nonvested at December31, 2014 5,104,406 $ 58.13                         Vested and expected to vest at December31, 2014 5,071,323 $ 56.53                         The weighted-average grant-date fair value of restricted stock units granted during the year ended December31, 2013 was $49.05. The weighted-average grant-date fair value of restricted stock units granted during the year ended December31, 2012 was $41.72.
The total fair value of restricted stock units vested and distributed was $153million during the year ended December31, 2014, $181million during the year ended December31, 2013 and $139million during the year ended December31, 2012.
Stock Options The Compensation Committee has also granted stock options to acquire our common stock under the DIRECTV Plan to certain of our executives. The exercise price of options granted is equal to the per share closing price of the common stock on the date the options were granted. These nonqualified options generally vest over one to three years, expire ten years from date of grant and are subject to earlier termination under certain conditions.
114 Table of Contents DIRECTV NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(continued) Changes in the status of outstanding options were as follows: Shares Under Option Weighted- Average Exercise Price Weighted- Average Remaining Contractual Term Aggregate Intrinsic Value (in years) (inmillions) Outstanding at January1, 2014 3,379,209 $ 30.20 Granted 223,573 75.02 Exercised (1,155,676 ) 20.57 Forfeited or expired (12,291 ) 65.19               Outstanding at December31, 2014 2,434,815 $ 38.71 5.3 $ 117                                           Vested and expected to vest at December31, 2014 2,434,815 $ 38.71 5.3 $ 117                                           Exercisable at December31, 2014 1,480,604 $ 29.31 3.5 $ 85                                           The total intrinsic value of options exercised was $67million during the year ended December31, 2014, $1million during the year ended December31, 2013 and $26million during the year ended December31, 2012, based on the intrinsic value of individual awards on the date of exercise.
The following table presents the estimated weighted-average grant-date fair value for the stock options granted during the years ended December31, 2014 and December31, 2013 under the DIRECTV Plan using the Black-Scholes valuation model along with the weighted-average assumptions used in the fair value calculations. Expected stock volatility is based primarily on the historical volatility of our common stock. The risk-free rate for periods within the contractual life of the option is based on the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at the time of grant. The expected option life is based on historical exercise behavior and other factors.
2014 2013 2012 Estimated grant-date fair value $ 26.68 $ 16.84 $15.83 Expected stock volatility 29.2 % 30.0 % 29.0 % Risk-free interest rate 2.19 % 1.38 % 1.08%-1.41 % Expected option life (in years) 7.0 7.0 7.0 As part of the Liberty Transaction on November19, 2009, we assumed 16.7million stock options and stock appreciation rights, and issued 1.1million shares of common stock to holders of restricted stock units. The holders of the majority of the equity instruments assumed as a result of the Liberty Transaction did not become DIRECTV employees or directors. Accordingly, we recognize those equity instruments as a liability that is subject to fair value measurement at each reporting date pursuant to accounting rules for non-employee awards. We include that liability within "Other liabilities and deferred credits" in our Consolidated Balance Sheets. Of the 16.7million equity instruments assumed, 8.8million were held by persons other than employees or directors. As of December31, 2014, 0.1million non-employee awards remained outstanding with a fair value of approximately $6million. As of December31, 2013, there were 0.3million non-employee awards outstanding with a fair value of approximately $18million. We recorded net losses of $3million during the year ended December31, 2014, $7million during the year ended December31, 2013 and $4million during the year ended December31, 2012 to "Other, net" in the Consolidated Statements of Operations for losses recognized for exercised options and the adjustment of the liability to fair value.
The following table presents the estimated per share weighted-average fair value as of December31, 2014, 2013 and 2012 for the equity instruments issued to persons other than employees and directors carried as a liability using the Black-Scholes valuation model along with the weighted-average assumptions used in the fair 115 Table of Contents DIRECTV NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(continued) value calculations. Expected stock volatility is based primarily on the historical volatility of our common stock. The risk-free rates for periods within the contractual lives of the options are based on the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at the measurement date. The expected option life is based on the contractual life of the awards.
December31, 2014 December31, 2013 December31, 2012 Estimated fair value $68.74 $53.45 $34.59 Expected stock volatility 18.8 % 20.0 % 22.8 % Range of risk-free interest rates 0.04-0.67 % 0.07-0.78 % 0.02-0.36 % Range of expected option lives (in years) 0.4-2.4 0.2-3.4 0.2-4.4 The intrinsic value of awards assumed as part of the Liberty Transaction carried as a liability that were exercised was $2million during the year ended December31, 2014, $1million during the year ended December31, 2013 and $3million during the year ended December31, 2012, based on the intrinsic value of individual awards on the date of exercise.
Beginning in 2009, we implemented a net exercise plan pursuant to which we only issue new shares in connection with employee option exercises equal to the intrinsic value of the exercised award on the exercise date reduced by the sum of (i)the amount of statutory employee withholding taxes and (ii)the option exercise price, divided by the current market price of our common stock. As a result, we no longer receive cash in connection with the exercise of most stock options, but rather issue significantly fewer shares. We do receive cash for the exercise of certain non-employee stock options. We received cash for the settlement of stock options of $21million during the year ended December31, 2014. We received no cash for the settlement of stock options during the year ended December31, 2013, and we received cash of $3million for the settlement of stock options during the year ended December31, 2012. In addition, the Company is required to pay the employee withholding taxes to taxing authorities, the cash payments for which are reported in "Taxes paid in lieu of shares issued for share-based compensation" in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.
Note18: Other Income and Expenses The following table sets forth the components of "Other, net" in our Consolidated Statements of Operations for the years ended December31: 2014 2013 2012 (Dollars in Millions) Equity in earnings from unconsolidated affiliates(1) $ 133 $ 198 $ 131 Interest rate swap gain 39   Net gains from sale of investments 26 8 122 Net foreign currency transaction loss (22 ) (52 ) (34 ) Loss on early extinguishment of debt (19 )  (64 ) Other (4 ) (3 ) (11 ) Fair-value loss on non-employee stock options (3 ) (7 ) (4 ) DSN Northwest deconsolidation charge  (59 )  ECAD settlement gain  21             Total $ 150 $ 106 $ 140                                  (1) Includes an increase in equity earnings from Sky Mexico of approximately $60million related to the recognition of certain one-time tax benefits in 2013.
116 Table of Contents DIRECTV NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(continued) See Note8 regarding equity method investments and net gains and losses recorded on the sale of investments.
Note19: Related-Party Transactions In the ordinary course of our operations, we enter into transactions with related parties as discussed below. Related parties include Globo, which provides programming and advertising to Sky Brasil, and companies in which we hold equity method investments, including Sky Mexico, GSN and NW Sports NetLLC.
The majority of payments under contractual arrangements with related parties are pursuant to multi-year programming contracts. Payments under these contracts are typically subject to annual rate increases and are based on the number of subscribers receiving the related programming.
The following table summarizes revenues and expenses with related parties for the years ended December31: 2014 2013 2012 (Dollars in Millions) Revenues $ 10 $ 9 $ 5 Expenses 1,068 965 874 The following table sets forth the amount of accounts receivable from and liabilities to related parties as of December31: 2014 2013 (Dollars in Millions) Accounts receivable $ 26 $ 18 Accounts payable 123 100 Short-term liability 149 0 Long-term liability 1 69 Note20: Segment Reporting Our reportable segments, which are differentiated by their products and services as well as geographic location, are DIRECTV U.S., Sky Brasil and PanAmericana, which are engaged in acquiring, promoting, selling and distributing digital entertainment programming primarily via satellite to residential and commercial subscribers, and the Sports Networks, Eliminations and Other segment, which includes our regional sports networks that provide programming devoted to local professional sports teams and college sporting events and locally produce their own programming. Sports Networks, Eliminations and Other also includes the corporate office, eliminations and other entities.
117 Table of Contents DIRECTV NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(continued) The following table sets forth selected information for the results of operations for each of our reporting segments: External Revenues Intersegment Revenues Total Revenues Operating Profit (Loss) Depreciation and Amortization Expense Operating Profit (Loss) Before Depreciation and Amortization(1) (Dollars in Millions) Year Ended December31, 2014: DIRECTV U.S.
$ 25,993 $ 8 $ 26,001 $ 4,749 $ 1,722 $ 6,471 Sky Brasil 3,887  3,887 488 687 1,175 PanAmericana and Other 3,174  3,174 (46 ) 520 474                     DIRECTV Latin America 7,061  7,061 442 1,207 1,649 Sports Networks, Eliminations and Other 206 (8 ) 198 (63 ) 14 (49 )                     Total $ 33,260 $  $ 33,260 $ 5,128 $ 2,943 $ 8,071                                                             Year Ended December31, 2013: DIRECTV U.S.
$ 24,668 $ 8 $ 24,676 $ 4,444 $ 1,640 $ 6,084 Sky Brasil 3,753  3,753 529 723 1,252 PanAmericana and Other 3,091  3,091 247 444 691                     DIRECTV Latin America 6,844  6,844 776 1,167 1,943 Sports Networks, Eliminations and Other 242 (8 ) 234 (70 ) 21 (49 )                     Total $ 31,754 $  $ 31,754 $ 5,150 $ 2,828 $ 7,978                                                             Year Ended December31, 2012: DIRECTV U.S.
$ 23,227 $ 8 $ 23,235 $ 4,153 $ 1,501 $ 5,654 Sky Brasil 3,501  3,501 555 533 1,088 PanAmericana and Other 2,743  2,743 400 374 774                     DIRECTV Latin America 6,244  6,244 955 907 1,862 Sports Networks, Eliminations and Other 269 (8 ) 261 (23 ) 29 6                     Total $ 29,740 $  $ 29,740 $ 5,085 $ 2,437 $ 7,522                                                             (1) Operating profit (loss) before depreciation and amortization, which is a financial measure that is not determined in accordance with GAAP can be calculated by adding amounts under the caption "Depreciation and amortization expense" to "Operating profit (loss)." This measure should be used in conjunction with GAAP financial measures and is not presented as an alternative measure of operating results, as determined in accordance with GAAP. Our management and Board of Directors use operating profit (loss) before depreciation and amortization to evaluate the operating performance of our company and our business segments and to allocate resources and capital to business segments. This metric is also used as a measure of performance for incentive compensation purposes and to measure income generated from operations that could be used to fund capital expenditures, service debt or pay taxes. Depreciation and amortization expense primarily represents an allocation to current expense of the cost of historical capital expenditures and for intangible assets resulting from prior business acquisitions. To compensate for the exclusion of depreciation and amortization expense from operating profit, our management and our Board of Directors separately measure and budget for capital expenditures and business acquisitions.
118 Table of Contents DIRECTV NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(continued) We believe this measure is useful to investors, along with GAAP measures (such as revenues, operating profit and net income), to compare our operating performance to other communications, entertainment and media service providers. We believe that investors use current and projected operating profit (loss) before depreciation and amortization and similar measures to estimate our current or prospective enterprise value and make investment decisions. This metric provides investors with a means to compare operating results exclusive of depreciation and amortization. Our management believes this is useful given the significant variation in depreciation and amortization expense that can result from the timing of capital expenditures, the capitalization of intangible assets, potential variations in expected useful lives when compared to other companies and periodic changes to estimated useful lives.
The following represents a reconciliation of operating profit before depreciation and amortization to reported net income on the Consolidated Statements of Operations: Years Ended December31, 2014 2013 2012 (Dollars in Millions) Operating profit before depreciation and amortization $ 8,071 $ 7,978 $ 7,522 Depreciation and amortization expense (2,943 ) (2,828 ) (2,437 )            Operating profit 5,128 5,150 5,085 Interest income 68 72 59 Interest expense (898 ) (840 ) (842 ) Other, net 150 106 140            Income before income taxes 4,448 4,488 4,442 Income tax expense (1,673 ) (1,603 ) (1,465 )            Net income 2,775 2,885 2,977 Less: Net income attributable to noncontrolling interest (19 ) (26 ) (28 )            Net income attributable to DIRECTV $ 2,756 $ 2,859 $ 2,949                                  The following table sets forth capital expenditures and segment assets for each of our reporting segments: Years Ended and As of December31, 2014 2013 2012 Capital Expenditures Segment Assets Capital Expenditures Segment Assets Capital Expenditures Segment Assets (Dollars in Millions) DIRECTV U.S.
$ 1,757 $ 16,719 $ 2,050 $ 13,446 $ 1,741 $ 12,490 Sky Brasil 867 2,654 961 2,854 812 2,951 PanAmericana and Other 580 4,671 759 4,004 786 3,335                     DIRECTV Latin America 1,447 7,325 1,720 6,858 1,598 6,286 Sports Networks, Eliminations and Other 21 1,415 16 1,601 10 1,779                     Total $ 3,225 $ 25,459 $ 3,786 $ 21,905 $ 3,349 $ 20,555                                                             119 Table of Contents DIRECTV NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(continued) The following table sets forth revenues earned from subscribers located in different geographic areas. Property is grouped by its physical location.
Years Ended and As of December31, 2014 2013 2012 Revenues Net Property& Satellites Revenues Net Property& Satellites Revenues Net Property& Satellites (Dollars in Millions) United States $ 26,370 $ 6,909 $ 25,088 $ 6,248 $ 23,678 $ 5,694 Latin America and the Caribbean Brazil 3,887 1,582 3,753 1,597 3,501 1,626 Other 3,003 1,270 2,913 1,272 2,561 1,075                     Total Latin America and the Caribbean 6,890 2,852 6,666 2,869 6,062 2,701                     Total $ 33,260 $ 9,761 $ 31,754 $ 9,117 $ 29,740 $ 8,395                                                             Note21: Commitments and Contingencies Commitments At December31, 2014, minimum future commitments under noncancelable operating leases having lease terms in excess of one year were primarily for real property and aggregated to $963million, payable as follows: $108million in 2015, $102million in 2016, $98million in 2017, $98million in 2018, $100million in 2019 and $457million thereafter. Certain of these leases contain escalation clauses and renewal or purchase options, which we have not considered in the amounts disclosed. Rental expenses under operating leases were $133million in 2014, $129million in 2013 and $118million in 2012.
At December31, 2014, our minimum payments under agreements to purchase broadcast programming, regional professional sports team rights and the purchase of services that we have outsourced to third parties, such as billing services, and satellite telemetry, tracking and control, satellite construction and launch contracts and broadcast center services aggregated to $16,330million, payable as follows: $2,158million in 2015, $2,011million in 2016, $1,780million in 2017, $1,693million in 2018, $1,883million in 2019 and $6,805million thereafter.
Satellite Commitments DIRECTV U.S. has contracted for the construction and launch of one new satellite, D15, which we expect to launch in the first half of 2015. D15 is expected to provide additional HD, replacement, and backup capacity for DIRECTV U.S. Additionally, DIRECTV Latin America has entered into a contract for the lease of one additional satellite for PanAmericana: ISDLA-2, which we expect to launch in the fourth quarter of 2015. ISDLA-1, which was launched in October2014 and has been placed into service, is in the process of becoming the primary satellite for PanAmericana with a substantial increase in channel capacity from the current satellite, and ISDLA-2 will serve as an in-orbit spare for ISDLA-1. As a part of the lease agreement for ISDLA-1 and ISDLA-2, which we expect to account for as a capital lease, we are required to make prepayments prior to the launch of the satellites and commencement of the lease. Prepayments related to this agreement totaled $88million for the year ended December31, 2014 and $105million for the year ended December31, 2013, and are included as "Cash paid for satellites" in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.
120 Table of Contents DIRECTV NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(continued) In addition, DIRECTV Latin America has contracted for the construction and launch of a new satellite for Sky Brasil, SKY-Brasil 1, which we expect to launch in the second quarter of 2016. SKY-Brasil 1 is expected to provide additional channel and HD capacity for Sky Brasil.
Total future cash payments under these agreements aggregate to $937million, payable as follows: $172million in 2015, $108million in 2016, $50million in 2017, $50million in 2018, $50million in 2019 and $507million thereafter.
Contingencies Venezuela Devaluation and Foreign Currency Exchange Controls Companies operating in Venezuela are required to obtain Venezuelan government approval to exchange Venezuelan bolivars into U.S. dollars and such approval has not consistently been granted for several years. Consequently, our ability to pay U.S. dollar denominated obligations and repatriate cash generated in Venezuela in excess of local operating requirements is limited, which has resulted in increases in the cash balance at our Venezuelan subsidiary, and limited our ability to import set-top receivers and other equipment, limiting the growth of our business in Venezuela.
In February2013, the Venezuelan government announced a devaluation of the Venezuelan bolivar from the official exchange rate of 4.3 Venezuelan bolivars per U.S. dollar to an official rate of 6.3 Venezuelan bolivars per U.S. dollar. As a result of the devaluation, we recorded a pre-tax charge in "Venezuelan currency devaluation charge" in the Consolidated Statements of Operations of $166million ($136million after tax) in the first quarter of 2013, related to the remeasurement of the bolivar denominated net monetary assets of our Venezuelan subsidiary as of the date of the devaluation.
In the first quarter of 2013, the Venezuelan government announced a new currency exchange system, the Sistema Complementario de Administracin de Divisas, or SICAD1, which is intended to function as an auction system for participants to exchange Venezuelan bolivars for U.S. dollars. The volume of amounts exchanged through such SICAD1 system and the resulting exchange rate are published by the Venezuelan Central Bank. Effective January24, 2014, the Venezuelan government announced that dividends and royalties would be subject to the SICAD1 program. The SICAD1 exchange rate, which was 12.0 Venezuelan bolivars per U.S. dollar as of December31, 2014, is determined by periodic auctions. In February2014, the Venezuelan government announced SICAD2, which is an exchange mechanism that became available on March24, 2014. The exchange rate for SICAD2 was 49.99 Venezuelan bolivars per U.S. dollar as of December31, 2014. Additionally, in February 2015, the Venezuelan government announced that the SICAD 2 exchange mechanism would no longer be available and created SIMADI, a new open market currency exchange system.
We currently believe the SICAD1 rate is the most representative rate to use for remeasurement, as the official rate of 6.3 Venezuelan bolivars per U.S. dollar will likely be reserved only for the settlement of U.S. dollar denominated obligations related to purchases of "essential goods and services," and the equity of our Venezuelan subsidiary would be realized, if at all, through permitted dividends paid at the SICAD1 rate. Therefore, as of December31, 2014, we are continuing to remeasure our Venezuelan subsidiary's financial statements in U.S. dollars using the exchange rate determined by periodic auctions under SICAD1, which was 12.0 Venezuelan bolivars per U.S. dollar. Prior to March31, 2014, we used the official exchange rate of 6.3 Venezuelan bolivars per U.S. dollar. As a result of the devaluation, we recorded a pre-tax charge in "Venezuelan currency devaluation charge" in the Consolidated Statements of Operations of $281million in the first quarter of 2014, related to the remeasurement of the bolivar denominated net monetary assets of our Venezuelan subsidiary on March31, 2014.
As of December31, 2014, our Venezuelan subsidiary had Venezuelan bolivar denominated net monetary assets of $481million, including cash of $481million, based on the SICAD1 exchange rate of 12.0 Venezuelan 121 Table of Contents DIRECTV NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(continued) bolivars per U.S. dollar. In 2014, our Venezuelan subsidiary generated revenues of approximately $900million and operating profit before depreciation and amortization of approximately $400million, excluding the impact of the $281million Venezuelan devaluation charge, as well as the impact of additional exchange rate losses in Venezuela recorded during 2014. The exchange rate used to report net monetary assets and operating results of our Venezuelan subsidiary is currently based on the results of periodic SICAD1 auctions, which is expected to result in fluctuations in reported amounts that could be material to the results of operations in Venezuela in future periods and could materially affect the comparability of results for our Venezuelan subsidiary between periods. The comparability of our results of operations and financial position in Venezuela will also be affected in the event of additional changes to the currency exchange rate system, further devaluations of the Venezuelan bolivar or if we determine in the future that a rate other than the SICAD 1 rate is appropriate for the remeasurement of our Venezuelan bolivar denominated net monetary assets.
Litigation Litigation is subject to uncertainties and the outcome of individual litigated matters is not predictable with assurance. Various legal actions, claims and proceedings are pending against us arising in the ordinary course of business. We have established loss provisions for matters in which losses are probable and can be reasonably estimated. Some of the matters may involve compensatory, punitive, or treble damage claims, or demands that, if granted, could require us to pay damages or make other expenditures in amounts that could not be estimated at December31, 2014. After discussion with counsel representing us in those actions, it is the opinion of management that such litigation is not expected to have a material effect on our consolidated financial statements. We expense legal costs as incurred.
Intellectual Property Litigation.
We are a defendant in several unrelated lawsuits claiming infringement of various patents relating to various aspects of our businesses. In certain of these cases other industry participants are also defendants, and also in certain of these cases we expect that any potential liability would be the responsibility of our equipment vendors pursuant to applicable contractual indemnification provisions. Further, in certain of these cases, suppliers of equipment to DIRECTV are also defendants, and DIRECTV has contractual obligations to indemnify and hold harmless those suppliers in those cases. To the extent that the allegations in these lawsuits can be analyzed by us at this stage of their proceedings, we believe the claims are without merit and intend to defend the actions vigorously. We have determined the likelihood of a material liability in such matters is remote or have made appropriate accruals and the final disposition of these claims is not expected to have a material effect on our consolidated financial position. However, if an adverse ruling is made in a lawsuit involving key intellectual property, such ruling could possibly be material to our consolidated results of operations of any one period. No assurance can be given that any adverse outcome would not be material to our consolidated financial position.
Early Cancellation Fees.
As previously reported, in 2008, a number of plaintiffs filed putative class action lawsuits in state and federal courts challenging the early cancellation fees we assess our customers when they do not fulfill their programming commitments. We have reached a settlement in principle with the individual plaintiffs in the federal cases and are finalizing the settlement agreements. In the California state court action, the denial of our motion to compel arbitration is currently on appeal. We believe that our early cancellation fees are adequately disclosed, and represent reasonable estimates of the costs we incur when customers cancel service before fulfilling their programming commitments.
State and Federal Inquiries.
From time to time, we receive investigative inquiries or subpoenas from state and federal authorities with respect to alleged violations of state and federal statutes. These inquiries may lead to legal proceedings in some cases.
122 Table of Contents DIRECTV NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(continued) FTC Investigation.
As reported previously, DIRECTV U.S. received a request for information from the Federal Trade Commission, or FTC, on issues similar to those resolved in 2011 with a multistate group of state attorneys general. We have been cooperating with the FTC by providing information about our sales and marketing practices and customer complaints. We have engaged in ongoing negotiations with FTC staff concerning these issues. The FTC staff has recently advised us that they have obtained authority from the Commissioners to file suit and that the damages sought by the FTC in such a proceeding could be substantial. However, until suit is filed, the parties are continuing to engage in discussions regarding a potential settlement.
Waste Disposal Inquiry.
In August 2012, DIRECTV U.S. received from the State of California subpoenas and interrogatories related to our generation, handling, record keeping, transportation and disposal of hazardous waste, including universal waste, in the State of California, and the training of employees regarding the same. The investigation is jointly conducted by the Office of the Attorney General and the District Attorney for Alameda County and appears to be part of a broader effort to investigate waste handling and disposal processes of a number of industries. We are continuing to review our policies and procedures applicable to all facilities and cooperating with the investigation.
Other.
We are subject to other legal proceedings and claims that arise in the ordinary course of our business. The amount of ultimate liability with respect to such actions is not expected to materially affect our financial position, results of operations or liquidity.
Income Tax Matters We have received tax assessments from certain foreign jurisdictions and have agreed to indemnify previously divested businesses for certain tax assessments relating to periods prior to their respective divestitures. These assessments are in various stages of the administrative process or litigation. While the outcome of these assessments and other tax issues cannot be predicted with certainty, we believe that the ultimate outcome will not have a material effect on our consolidated financial position or result of operations.
Satellites We may purchase in-orbit and launch insurance to mitigate the potential financial impact of satellite launch and in-orbit failures if the premium costs are considered economic relative to the risk of satellite failure. The insurance generally covers a portion of the unamortized book value of covered satellites. We do not insure against lost revenues in the event of a total or partial loss of the capacity of a satellite. We generally rely on in-orbit spare satellites and excess transponder capacity at key orbital slots to mitigate the impact a satellite failure could have on our ability to provide service. At December31, 2014, the net book value of in-orbit satellites was $1,806million all of which was uninsured.
Other As of December31, 2014, we were contingently liable under standby letters of credit and bonds in the aggregate amount of $316million primarily related to judicial deposit and payment guarantees in Latin America and insurance deductibles.
123 Table of Contents DIRECTV NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(continued) Note22: Selected Quarterly Data (Unaudited) The following table presents unaudited selected quarterly data for the years presented: 1st 2nd 3rd 4th (Dollars in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts) 2014 Quarters Revenues $ 7,855 $ 8,109 $ 8,374 $ 8,922 Operating profit 1,227 1,424 1,222 1,255 Net income attributable to DIRECTV 561 806 611 778 Basic earnings attributable to DIRECTV per common share $ 1.10 $ 1.60 $ 1.22 $ 1.55 Diluted earnings attributable to DIRECTV per common share $ 1.09 $ 1.59 $ 1.21 $ 1.53 2013 Quarters Revenues $ 7,580 $ 7,700 $ 7,880 $ 8,594 Operating profit 1,242 1,350 1,225 1,333 Net income attributable to DIRECTV 690 660 699 810 Basic earnings attributable to DIRECTV per common share $ 1.21 $ 1.19 $ 1.29 $ 1.55 Diluted earnings attributable to DIRECTV per common share $ 1.20 $ 1.18 $ 1.28 $ 1.53 Note23: Condensed Consolidating Financial Statements As discussed above in Note10, DIRECTV has provided a guarantee of all the outstanding senior notes of DIRECTV HoldingsLLC and DIRECTV FinancingCo.,Inc., or the "Co-issuers." The following condensed consolidating financial statements of DIRECTV and subsidiaries have been prepared pursuant to rules regarding the preparation of consolidating financial statements of RegulationS-X. Also, restricted net assets of our Venezuelan subsidiary, which is included within Non-Guarantor subsidiaries, exceeded 25% of total consolidated net assets and as such, the required condensed parent company information is included as part of the condensed consolidating financial statements below. For additional information regarding the Venezuelan restricted net assets see Note21.
These condensed consolidating financial statements present the condensed consolidating statements of operations, condensed consolidating statements of comprehensive income and condensed consolidating statements of cash flows for the years ended December31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, and the condensed consolidating balance sheets as of December31, 2014 and December31, 2013.
The condensed consolidating financial statements are comprised of DIRECTV, or the Parent Guarantor, its indirect 100% owned subsidiaries, DIRECTV HoldingsLLC and DIRECTV FinancingCo.,Inc. and each of DIRECTV HoldingsLLC's material subsidiaries (other than DIRECTV FinancingCo.,Inc.), or the Guarantor Subsidiaries, as well as other subsidiaries who are not guarantors of the senior notes, or the Non-Guarantor Subsidiaries, and the eliminations necessary to present DIRECTV's financial statements on a consolidated basis. The Non-Guarantor Subsidiaries consist primarily of DIRECTV's DTH digital television services throughout Latin America which are held by DIRECTV Latin America and our regional sports networks which are held by DSN and its subsidiaries which are comprised primarily of two regional sports networks. In addition, the Non-Guarantor Subsidiaries include the entity that is the parent of DIRECTV Holdings.
The accompanying condensed consolidating financial statements are presented based on the equity method of accounting for all periods presented. Under this method, investments in subsidiaries are recorded at cost and adjusted for the subsidiaries' cumulative results of operations, capital contributions and distributions, and other changes in equity.
Elimination entries include consolidating and eliminating entries for investments in subsidiaries, intercompany activity and balances, and income taxes.
124 Table of Contents DIRECTV NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(continued) Condensed Consolidating Statement of Operations For the Year Ended December31, 2014 Parent Guarantor Co-Issuers Guarantor Subsidiaries Non-Guarantor Subsidiaries Eliminations DIRECTV Consolidated (Dollars in Millions) Revenues $  $  $ 26,001 $ 7,417 $ (158 ) $ 33,260 Operating costs and expenses Costs of revenues, exclusive of depreciation and amortization expense Broadcast programming and other   12,343 2,727 (140 ) 14,930 Subscriber service expenses   1,519 804 (3 ) 2,320 Broadcast operations expenses   303 134 (7 ) 430 Selling, general and administrative expenses, exclusive of depreciation and amortization expense Subscriber acquisition costs   2,853 809 (3 ) 3,659 Upgrade and retention costs   1,276 184 (4 ) 1,456 General and administrative expenses 98 1 1,235 780 (1 ) 2,113 Venezuelan currency devaluation charge    281  281 Depreciation and amortization expense   1,722 1,221  2,943                     Total operating costs and expenses 98 1 21,251 6,940 (158 ) 28,132                     Operating profit (loss) (98 ) (1 ) 4,750 477  5,128 Equity in income of consolidated subsidiaries 2,807 3,053  2,518 (8,378 )  Interest income 1 2 2 63  68 Interest expense (1 ) (858 ) (4 ) (35 )  (898 ) Other, net 18 19 32 81  150                     Income before income tax 2,727 2,215 4,780 3,104 (8,378 ) 4,448 Income tax benefit (expense) 29 303 (1,727 ) (278 )  (1,673 )                     Net income 2,756 2,518 3,053 2,826 (8,378 ) 2,775 Less: Net income attributable to noncontrolling interest    (19 )  (19 )                     Net income attributable to DIRECTV $ 2,756 $ 2,518 $ 3,053 $ 2,807 $ (8,378 ) $ 2,756                                                             125 Table of Contents DIRECTV NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(continued) Condensed Consolidating Statement of Operations For the Year Ended December31, 2013 Parent Guarantor Co-Issuers Guarantor Subsidiaries Non-Guarantor Subsidiaries Eliminations DIRECTV Consolidated (Dollars in Millions) Revenues $  $  $ 24,676 $ 7,141 $ (63 ) $ 31,754 Operating costs and expenses Costs of revenues, exclusive of depreciation and amortization expense Broadcast programming and other   11,616 2,430 (55 ) 13,991 Subscriber service expenses   1,474 768  2,242 Broadcast operations expenses   293 124 (8 ) 409 Selling, general and administrative expenses, exclusive of depreciation and amortization expense Subscriber acquisition costs   2,642 777  3,419 Upgrade and retention costs   1,350 197  1,547 General and administrative expenses 70  1,217 715  2,002 Venezuelan currency devaluation charge    166  166 Depreciation and amortization expense   1,640 1,188  2,828                     Total operating costs and expenses 70  20,232 6,365 (63 ) 26,604                     Operating profit (loss) (70 )  4,444 776  5,150 Equity in income of consolidated subsidiaries 2,900 2,880  2,349 (8,129 )  Interest income 16  2 62 (8 ) 72 Interest expense (1 ) (824 ) (3 ) (20 ) 8 (840 ) Other, net (7 )  29 84  106                     Income before income taxes 2,838 2,056 4,472 3,251 (8,129 ) 4,488 Income tax benefit (expense) 21 293 (1,592 ) (325 )  (1,603 )                     Net income 2,859 2,349 2,880 2,926 (8,129 ) 2,885 Less: Net income attributable to noncontrolling interest    (26 )  (26 )                     Net income attributable to DIRECTV $ 2,859 $ 2,349 $ 2,880 $ 2,900 $ (8,129 ) $ 2,859                                                             126 Table of Contents DIRECTV NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(continued) Condensed Consolidating Statement of Operations For the Year Ended December31, 2012 Parent Guarantor Co-Issuers Guarantor Subsidiaries Non-Guarantor Subsidiaries Eliminations DIRECTV Consolidated (Dollars in Millions) Revenues $  $ 59 $ 23,235 $ 6,583 $ (137 ) $ 29,740 Operating costs and expenses Costs of revenues, exclusive of depreciation and amortization expense Broadcast programming and other   10,743 2,355 (70 ) 13,028 Subscriber service expenses   1,464 673  2,137 Broadcast operations expenses   306 116 (8 ) 414 Selling, general and administrative expenses, exclusive of depreciation and amortization expense Subscriber acquisition costs   2,673 724  3,397 Upgrade and retention costs   1,253 174  1,427 General and administrative expenses 42 1 1,201 630 (59 ) 1,815 Depreciation and amortization expense   1,501 936  2,437                     Total operating costs and expenses 42 1 19,141 5,608 (137 ) 24,655                     Operating profit (loss) (42 ) 58 4,094 975  5,085 Equity in income of consolidated subsidiaries 2,980 2,819  2,286 (8,085 )  Interest income 2 1  68 (12 ) 59 Interest expense (2 ) (773 ) (3 ) (76 ) 12 (842 ) Other, net (4 ) (65 ) 33 176  140                     Income before income taxes 2,934 2,040 4,124 3,429 (8,085 ) 4,442 Income tax benefit (expense) 15 246 (1,305 ) (421 )  (1,465 )                     Net income 2,949 2,286 2,819 3,008 (8,085 ) 2,977 Less: Net income attributable to noncontrolling interest    (28 )  (28 )                     Net income attributable to DIRECTV $ 2,949 $ 2,286 $ 2,819 $ 2,980 $ (8,085 ) $ 2,949                                                             127 Table of Contents DIRECTV NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(continued) Condensed Consolidating Statement of Comprehensive Income For the Year Ended December31, 2014 Parent Guarantor Co-Issuers Guarantor Subsidiaries Non-Guarantor Subsidiaries Eliminations DIRECTV Consolidated (Dollars in Millions) Net income $ 2,756 $ 2,518 $ 3,053 $ 2,826 $ (8,378 ) $ 2,775 Other comprehensive income (loss), net of taxes: Defined benefit plans: Loss related to changes in plan experience and actuarial assumptions arising during the period (49 )     (49 ) Prior service credit arising during the period 21     21 Amortization of amounts resulting from changes in plan experience and actuarial assumptions recognized as periodic benefit cost 10     10 Cash flows hedges: Unrealized losses arising during the period (87 ) (87 )  (87 ) 174 (87 ) Reclassification adjustments included in net income 117 117  117 (234 ) 117 Foreign currency translation adjustments (99 )   (108 ) 99 (108 )                     Other comprehensive income (loss) (87 ) 30  (78 ) 39 (96 )                     Comprehensive income 2,669 2,548 3,053 2,748 (8,339 ) 2,679 Less: Comprehensive income attributable to noncontrolling interest    (10 )  (10 )                     Comprehensive income attributable to DIRECTV $ 2,669 $ 2,548 $ 3,053 $ 2,738 $ (8,339 ) $ 2,669                                                             128 Table of Contents DIRECTV NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(continued) Condensed Consolidating Statement of Comprehensive Income For the Year Ended December31, 2013 Parent Guarantor Co-Issuers Guarantor Subsidiaries Non-Guarantor Subsidiaries Eliminations DIRECTV Consolidated (Dollars in Millions) Net income $ 2,859 $ 2,349 $ 2,880 $ 2,926 $ (8,129 ) $ 2,885 Other comprehensive income (loss), net of taxes: Defined benefit plans: Gains related to changes in plan experience and actuarial assumptions arising during the period 22     22 Amortization of amounts resulting from changes in plan experience and actuarial assumptions recognized as periodic benefit cost 38     38 Amortization of amounts resulting from changes in plan provisions recognized as periodic benefit cost 1     1 Cash flows hedges: Unrealized gains arising during the period 80 80  80 (160 ) 80 Reclassification adjustments included in net income (49 ) (49 )  (49 ) 98 (49 ) Foreign currency translation adjustments (167 )   (173 ) 167 (173 ) Reclassification adjustment for net losses on securities recognized during the period 1   1 (1 ) 1                     Other comprehensive income (loss) (74 ) 31  (141 ) 104 (80 )                     Comprehensive income 2,785 2,380 2,880 2,785 (8,025 ) 2,805 Less: Comprehensive income attributable to noncontrolling interest    (20 )  (20 )                     Comprehensive income attributable to DIRECTV $ 2,785 $ 2,380 $ 2,880 $ 2,765 $ (8,025 ) $ 2,785                                                             129 Table of Contents DIRECTV NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(continued) Condensed Consolidating Statement of Comprehensive Income For the Year Ended December31, 2012 Parent Guarantor Co-Issuers Guarantor Subsidiaries Non-Guarantor Subsidiaries Eliminations DIRECTV Consolidated (Dollars in Millions) Net income $ 2,949 $ 2,286 $ 2,819 $ 3,008 $ (8,085 ) $ 2,977 Other comprehensive income (loss), net of taxes: Defined benefit plans: Loss related to changes in plan experience and actuarial assumptions arising during the period (45 )     (45 ) Amortization of amounts resulting from changes in plan experience and actuarial assumptions recognized as periodic benefit cost 12     12 Cash flows hedges: Unrealized losses arising during the period (10 ) (10 )  (10 ) 20 (10 ) Reclassification adjustments included in net income (7 ) (7 )  (7 ) 14 (7 ) Foreign currency translation adjustments (17 )   (32 ) 17 (32 ) Unrealized holding losses on securities (4 )   (4 ) 4 (4 )                     Other comprehensive loss (71 ) (17 )  (53 ) 55 (86 )                     Comprehensive income 2,878 2,269 2,819 2,955 (8,030 ) 2,891 Less: Comprehensive income attributable to noncontrolling interest    (13 )  (13 )                     Comprehensive income attributable to DIRECTV $ 2,878 $ 2,269 $ 2,819 $ 2,942 $ (8,030 ) $ 2,878                                                             130 Table of Contents DIRECTV NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(continued) Condensed Consolidating Balance Sheet As of December31, 2014 Parent Guarantor Co-Issuers Guarantor Subsidiaries Non-Guarantor Subsidiaries Eliminations DIRECTV Consolidated (Dollars in Millions) ASSETS Total current assets $ 1,201 $ 3,690 $ 2,964 $ 1,592 $ (628 ) $ 8,819 Satellites, net   1,717 1,323  3,040 Property and equipment, net   3,891 2,830  6,721 Goodwill  1,828 1,363 738  3,929 Intangible assets, net   512 490 (8 ) 994 Intercompany receivables 4,975 11,698 28,132 1,143 (45,948 )  Investment in subsidiaries (9,341 ) 21,337  (10,725 ) (1,271 )  Other assets 134 99 670 1,185 (132 ) 1,956                     Total assets $ (3,031 ) $ 38,652 $ 39,249 $ (1,424 ) $ (47,987 ) $ 25,459                                                             LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY(DEFICIT) Total current liabilities $ 527 $ 1,454 $ 4,244 $ 1,362 $ (628 ) $ 6,959 Long-term debt  19,327  158  19,485 Deferred income taxes  33 1,736 89 (132 ) 1,726 Intercompany liabilities 1,212 28,110 11,698 4,928 (45,948 )  Other liabilities and deferred credits 443 453 234 995 (8 ) 2,117 Stockholders' equity (deficit) Common stock and additional paid-in capital 3,613 432 5,403 3,489 (9,324 ) 3,613 Retained earnings (accumulated deficit) (8,408 ) (11,202 ) 15,934 (12,554 ) 7,822 (8,408 ) Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) (418 ) 45  (276 ) 231 (418 )                     Total DIRECTV stockholders' equity (deficit) (5,213 ) (10,725 ) 21,337 (9,341 ) (1,271 ) (5,213 ) Noncontrolling interest    385  385                     Total stockholders' equity (deficit) (5,213 ) (10,725 ) 21,337 (8,956 ) (1,271 ) (4,828 )                     Total liabilities and stockholders' equity (deficit) $ (3,031 ) $ 38,652 $ 39,249 $ (1,424 ) $ (47,987 ) $ 25,459                                                             131 Table of Contents DIRECTV NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(continued) Condensed Consolidating Balance Sheet As of December31, 2013 Parent Guarantor Co-Issuers Guarantor Subsidiaries Non-Guarantor Subsidiaries Eliminations DIRECTV Consolidated (Dollars in Millions) ASSETS Total current assets $ 979 $ 1,133 $ 2,577 $ 1,775 $ (511 ) $ 5,953 Satellites, net   1,810 657  2,467 Property and equipment, net   3,724 2,926  6,650 Goodwill  1,828 1,363 779  3,970 Intangible assets, net   527 401 (8 ) 920 Intercompany receivables 4,799 7,820 20,988 1,386 (34,993 )  Investment in subsidiaries (10,177 ) 17,812  (12,247 ) 4,612  Other assets 92 190 361 1,416 (114 ) 1,945                     Total assets $ (4,307 ) $ 28,783 $ 31,350 $ (2,907 ) $ (31,014 ) $ 21,905                                                             LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY(DEFICIT) Total current liabilities $ 448 $ 1,478 $ 3,812 $ 1,303 $ (511 ) $ 6,530 Long-term debt  18,203  81  18,284 Deferred income taxes  9 1,632 277 (114 ) 1,804 Intercompany liabilities 1,390 21,019 7,820 4,764 (34,993 )  Other liabilities and deferred credits 399 321 274 470 (8 ) 1,456 Redeemable noncontrolling interest    375  375 Stockholders' equity (deficit) Capital stock and additional paid-in capital 3,652 25 4,930 3,671 (8,626 ) 3,652 Retained earnings (accumulated deficit) (9,874 ) (12,286 ) 12,882 (13,620 ) 13,024 (9,874 ) Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) (322 ) 14  (228 ) 214 (322 )                     Total stockholders' equity (deficit) (6,544 ) (12,247 ) 17,812 (10,177 ) 4,612 (6,544 )                     Total liabilities and stockholders' equity (deficit) $ (4,307 ) $ 28,783 $ 31,350 $ (2,907 ) $ (31,014 ) $ 21,905                                                             132 Table of Contents DIRECTV NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(continued) Condensed Consolidating Statement of Cash Flows For the Year Ended December31, 2014 Parent Guarantor Co-Issuers Guarantor Subsidiaries Non-Guarantor Subsidiaries Eliminations DIRECTV Consolidated (Dollars in Millions) Cash flows from operating activities Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 1,056 $ (2,008 ) $ 6,471 $ 1,962 $ (1,112 ) $ 6,369                     Cash flows from investing activities Cash paid for property and equipment   (1,684 ) (1,256 )  (2,940 ) Cash paid for satellites   (73 ) (212 )  (285 ) Investment in companies, net of cash acquired   (1 ) (46 )  (47 ) Proceeds from sale of investments   16 16  32 Return of capital from subsidiary 425    (425 )  Intercompany payments (funding) 270 (1,258 ) (5,969 ) 159 6,798  Other, net    (123 )  (123 )                     Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities 695 (1,258 ) (7,711 ) (1,462 ) 6,373 (3,363 )                     Cash flows from financing activities Proceeds from short-term borrowings  301    301 Repayment of short-term borrowings  (501 )    (501 ) Proceeds from long-term debt  2,437  213  2,650 Debt issuance costs  (14 )    (14 ) Repayment of long-term debt  (1,000 )  (66 )  (1,066 ) Repayment of other long-term obligations   (30 ) (39 )  (69 ) Common shares repurchased and retired (1,386 )     (1,386 ) Stock Options Exercised 21     21 Taxes paid in lieu of shares issued for share-based compensation (60 )  (50 ) (10 ) 60 (60 ) Excess tax benefit from share-based compensation 23  19 4 (23 ) 23 Intercompany payments (funding) (167 ) 5,965 1,315 (315 ) (6,798 )  Cash dividend to Parent  (1,500 )   1,500  Other, net  (22 )  (45 )  (67 )                     Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities (1,569 ) 5,666 1,254 (258 ) (5,261 ) (168 )                     Effect of exchange rate changes in Venezuelan cash and cash equivalents    (383 )  (383 )                     Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 182 2,400 14 (141 )  2,455 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the year 498 791 6 885  2,180                     Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year $ 680 $ 3,191 $ 20 $ 744 $  $ 4,635                                                             133 Table of Contents DIRECTV NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(continued) Condensed Consolidating Statement of Cash Flows For the Year Ended December31, 2013 Parent Guarantor Co-Issuers Guarantor Subsidiaries Non-Guarantor Subsidiaries Eliminations DIRECTV Consolidated (Dollars in Millions) Cash flows from operating activities Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 2,300 $ (1,902 ) $ 6,525 $ 1,811 $ (2,340 ) $ 6,394                     Cash flows from investing activities Cash paid for property and equipment   (1,852 ) (1,557 )  (3,409 ) Cash paid for satellites   (198 ) (179 )  (377 ) Investment in companies, net of cash acquired   (53 ) (13 )  (66 ) Proceeds from sale of investments   12 245  257 Return of capital from subsidiary 1,897    (1,897 )  Intercompany funding (248 ) (1,157 ) (5,537 ) (188 ) 7,130  Other, net   (67 ) (91 )  (158 )                     Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities 1,649 (1,157 ) (7,695 ) (1,783 ) 5,233 (3,753 )                     Cash flows from financing activities Repayment of commercial paper (maturity 90days or less), net  (155 )    (155 ) Proceeds from short-term borrowings  556    556 Repayment of short-term borrowings  (559 )    (559 ) Proceeds from borrowings under revolving credit facility  10    10 Repayment of borrowings under revolving credit facility  (10 )    (10 ) Proceeds from long-term debt  1,947  152  2,099 Debt issuance costs  (12 )    (12 ) Repayment of long-term debt    (15 )  (15 ) Repayment of other long-term obligations   (24 ) (39 )  (63 ) Common shares repurchased and retired (4,000 )     (4,000 ) Taxes paid in lieu of shares issued for share-based compensation (61 )  (51 ) (10 ) 61 (61 ) Excess tax benefit from share-based compensation 24  20 4 (24 ) 24 Intercompany payments 178 5,535 1,220 197 (7,130 )  Cash dividend to Parent  (4,200 )   4,200  Other, net  10    10                     Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities (3,859 ) 3,122 1,165 289 (2,893 ) (2,176 )                     Effect of exchange rate changes in Venezuelan cash and cash equivalents    (187 )  (187 )                     Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 90 63 (5 ) 130  278 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the year 408 728 11 755  1,902                     Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year $ 498 $ 791 $ 6 $ 885 $  $ 2,180                                                             134 Table of Contents DIRECTV NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(continued) Condensed Consolidating Statement of Cash Flows For the Year Ended December31, 2012 Parent Guarantor Co-Issuers Guarantor Subsidiaries Non-Guarantor Subsidiaries Eliminations DIRECTV Consolidated (Dollars in Millions) Cash flows from operating activities Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 2,055 $ (1,820 ) $ 5,947 $ 1,608 $ (2,156 ) $ 5,634                     Cash flows from investing activities Cash paid for property and equipment   (1,488 ) (1,472 )  (2,960 ) Cash paid for satellites   (253 ) (136 )  (389 ) Investment in companies, net of cash acquired   (7 ) (9 )  (16 ) Proceeds from sale of investments   24   24 Return of capital from subsidiary 3,775    (3,775 )  Intercompany funding (369 ) (917 ) (5,118 ) (4 ) 6,408  Other, net    (22 )  (22 )                     Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities 3,406 (917 ) (6,842 ) (1,643 ) 2,633 (3,363 )                     Cash flows from financing activities Issuance of commercial paper (maturity 90days or less), net  156    156 Proceeds from short-term borrowings  202    202 Proceeds from borrowings under revolving credit facility  400    400 Repayment of borrowings under revolving credit facility  (400 )    (400 ) Proceeds from long-term debt  5,190    5,190 Debt issuance costs  (36 )    (36 ) Repayment of long-term debt  (1,500 )    (1,500 ) Repayment of other long-term obligations   (21 ) (30 )  (51 ) Common shares repurchased and retired (5,175 )     (5,175 ) Stock options exercised 3     3 Taxes paid in lieu of shares issued for share-based compensation (61 )  (52 ) (9 ) 61 (61 ) Excess tax benefit from share-based compensation 30  25 5 (30 ) 30 Intercompany payments 21 5,125 950 312 (6,408 )  Cash dividend to Parent  (5,900 )   5,900                      Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities (5,182 ) 3,237 902 278 (477 ) (1,242 )                     Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 279 500 7 243  1,029 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the year 129 228 4 512  873                     Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year $ 408 $ 728 $ 11 $ 755 $  $ 1,902                                                             135 Table of Contents DIRECTV ITEM 9.CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE None.
ITEM 9A.CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES Disclosure Controls and Procedures We carried out an evaluation as of the end of the year covered by this Annual Report on Form10-K under the supervision and with the participation of management, including our principal executive officer and financial officers, of the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act). Based on the evaluation, our principal executive officers and our financial officers concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of December31, 2014.
There has been no change in our internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Rules13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Exchange Act) that occurred during our fiscal quarter ended December31, 2014, that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.
Internal Control Over Financial Reporting Management's Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting as defined in Rule13a-15(f) or 15d-15(f) promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Those rules define internal control over financial reporting as a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, or GAAP, and includes those policies and procedures that:  pertain to the maintenance of records that in reasonable detail accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the Company;  provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP, and that receipts and expenditures of the Company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the Company; and  provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of the Company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
Our management assessed the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December31, 2014. In making this assessment, our management used the criteria established in Internal ControlIntegrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Based on their assessment and those criteria, management believes that, as of December31, 2014, our internal control over financial reporting is effective.
136 Table of Contents DIRECTV Our independent registered public accounting firm has issued an audit report on internal control over financial reporting, which appears below.
REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of DIRECTV El Segundo, California We have audited the internal control over financial reporting of DIRECTV and subsidiaries (the "Company") as of December31, 2014, based on criteria established in Internal ControlIntegrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. The Company's management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying Management's Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company's internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.
We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
A company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed by, or under the supervision of, the company's principal executive and principal financial officers, or persons performing similar functions, and effected by the company's board of directors, management, and other personnel to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company's internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1)pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2)provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3)provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Because of the inherent limitations of internal control over financial reporting, including the possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Also, projections of any evaluation of the effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
In our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December31, 2014, based on the criteria established in Internal ControlIntegrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.
We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedule as of and for the year ended December31, 2014 of the Company and our report dated February24, 2015 expressed an unqualified opinion on those financial statements and financial statement schedule.
/s/ DELOITTE& TOUCHELLP Los Angeles, California February24, 2015 137 Table of Contents DIRECTV ITEM 9B.OTHER INFORMATION None.
PART III ITEMS 10, 11, 12, 13 and 14 This information will be included in an amendment of this Annual Report to be filed on Form10-K/A not later than March31, 2015.
PART IV ITEM 15.Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules Page Number (a) 1.
All Consolidated Financial Statements See PartII 2.
Financial Statement ScheduleII-Valuation and Qualifying Accounts for the Years Ended December31, 2013, 2012 and 2011 144 3.
Exhibits Exhibit Number Exhibit Name *2.1 Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of May18, 2014, by and among DIRECTV, AT&TInc. and Steam Merger SubLLC (incorporated by reference to Exhibit2.1 to the Form8-K of DIRECTV filed May18, 2014 (SEC File No.1-34554)) *3.1 Third Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of DIRECTV (incorporated by reference to Exhibit3.1 to the Form8-K of DIRECTV filed August27,  2012 (SEC File No.1-34554)) *3.2 DIRECTV Amended and Restated Bylaws (incorporated by reference to Exhibit3.2 to the Form8-K of DIRECTV filed August27, 2012 (SEC File No.1-34554)) *4.1 Specimen form of certificate representing Common Stock of DIRECTV (incorporated by reference to Exhibit4.1 to the Form8-K of DIRECTV filed August27, 2012 (SEC File No.1-34554)) *4.2 Indenture dated as of September22, 2009 by and among DIRECTV HoldingsLLC, DIRECTV Financing Co,Inc., the Guarantors signatory thereto and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as trustee (incorporated by reference to Exhibit10.1 of the Form8-K of DIRECTV Holdings,LLC filed on September25, 2009 (SEC File No.333-106529)) *4.3 Form of 4 3 / 4 % Senior Notes due 2014 (included in Exhibit4.2) *4.4 Form of 5 7 / 8 % Senior Notes due 2019 (included in Exhibit4.2) *4.5 Indenture dated as of March11, 2010 by and among DIRECTV HoldingsLLC, DIRECTV FinancingCo.,Inc., the Guarantors signatory thereto and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as trustee (incorporated by reference to Exhibit10.1 of the Form8-K of DIRECTV HoldingsLLC filed on March15, 2010 (SEC File No.333-106529)) *4.6 Form of 3.550% Senior Notes due 2015 (included in Exhibit4.5) 138 Table of Contents DIRECTV Exhibit Number Exhibit Name *4.7 Form of 5.200% Senior Notes due 2020 (included in Exhibit4.5) *4.8 Form of 6.35% Senior Notes due 2040 (included in Exhibit4.5) *4.9 Indenture dated as of August17, 2010 by and among DIRECTV HoldingsLLC, DIRECTV FinancingCo.,Inc., the Guarantors signatory thereto and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as Trustee (incorporated by reference to Exhibit4.1 of the Form8-K of DIRECTV HoldingsLLC filed on August23, 2010 (SEC File No.333-106529)) *4.10 First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of August17, 2010, by and among DIRECTV HoldingsLLC, DIRECTV FinancingCo.,Inc., the Guarantors signatory thereto and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as Trustee (incorporated by reference to Exhibit4.2 of the Form8-K of DIRECTV HoldingsLLC filed on August23, 2010 (SEC File No.333-106529)) *4.11 Form of 3.125% Senior Notes due 2016 (included in Exhibit4.10) *4.12 Form of 4.600% Senior Notes due 2021 (included in Exhibit4.10) *4.13 Form of 6.000% Senior Notes due 2040 (included in Exhibit4.10) *4.14 Second Supplemental Indenture, dated as of March10, 2011, by and among DIRECTV HoldingsLLC, DIRECTV FinancingCo.,Inc., the Guarantors signatory thereto and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as Trustee (incorporated by reference to Exhibit4.1 of the Form8-K of DIRECTV HoldingsLLC filed on March10, 2011(SEC File No.333-106529)) *4.15 Form of 3.500% Notes due 2016 (included in Exhibit4.14) *4.16 Form of 5.000% Notes due 2021 (included in Exhibit4.14) *4.17 Form of 6.375% Notes due 2041 (included in Exhibit4.14) *4.18 Indenture, dated as of March8, 2012, by and among DIRECTV HoldingsLLC, DIRECTV FinancingCo.,Inc., the Guarantors signatory thereto and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as trustee (incorporated by reference to Exhibit4.1 of the Form8-K of DIRECTV filed on March14, 2012 (SEC File No.1-34554)) *4.19 Form of 2.400% Notes due 2017 (included in Exhibit4.18) *4.20 Form of 3.800% Notes due 2021 (included in Exhibit4.18) *4.21 Form of 5.150% Notes due 2042 (included in Exhibit4.18) *4.22 Indenture dated as of September14, 2012 by and among DIRECTV HoldingsLLC, DIRECTV FinancingCo.,Inc., the Guarantors signatory thereto and The Bank Of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as Trustee (incorporated by reference to Exhibit4.1 to the Form8-K of DIRECTV filed September14, 2012 (SEC File No.1-34554)) *4.23 First Supplemental Indenture dated as of September14, 2012 by and among DIRECTV HoldingsLLC, DIRECTV FinancingCo.,Inc., the Guarantors signatory thereto and The Bank Of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as Trustee (incorporated by reference to Exhibit4.2 to the Form8-K of DIRECTV filed September14, 2012 (SEC File No.1-34554)) 139 Table of Contents DIRECTV Exhibit Number Exhibit Name *4.24 Second Supplemental Indenture, dated as of January15, 2013, by and among DIRECTV HoldingsLLC, DIRECTV FinancingCo.,Inc., the Guarantors signatory thereto and the Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as Trustee (incorporated by reference to Exhibit4.1 to the Form8-K of DIRECTV filed January15, 2013 (SEC File No.1-34554)) *4.25 Form of 1.750% Notes due 2018 (included in Exhibit4.24) *4.26 Third Supplemental Indenture, dated as of May20, 2013, by and among DIRECTV HoldingsLLC, DIRECTV FinancingCo.,Inc., the guarantors signatory thereto and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as Trustee (incorporated by reference to Exhibit4.1 to the Form8-K of DIRECTV filed May20, 2013 (SEC File No.1-34554)) *4.27 Form of 5.200% Notes due 2033 (included in Exhibit4.26) *4.28 Fourth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of November20, 2013, by and among DIRECTV HoldingsLLC, DIRECTV FinancingCo.,Inc., the guarantors signatory thereto and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as Trustee (incorporated by reference to Exhibit4.1 to the Form8-K of DIRECTV filed November20, 2013 (SEC File No.1-34554)) *4.29 Form of 5.200% Notes due 2033 (included in Exhibit4.28) *4.30 Fifth Supplemental Indenture dated as of March20, 2014, by and among DIRECTV HoldingsLLC, DIRECTV FinancingCo.,Inc., the Guarantors signatory thereto and The Bank Of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as Trustee (incorporated by reference to Exhibit4.1 to the Form8-K of DIRECTV filed March20, 2014 (SEC File No.1-34554)) *4.31 Form of 4.450% Senior Notes due 2024 (included in Exhibit4.30) *4.32 Sixth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of December11, 2014, by and among DIRECTV HoldingsLLC, DIRECTV FinancingCo.,Inc., the guarantors signatory thereto and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as Trustee. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit4.1 to the Form8-K of DIRECTV filed December11, 2014 (SEC File No.1-34554)) *4.33 Form of 3.95% Notes due 2025(included in Exhibit4.32) *10.1 DTH Agreement, dated as of October8, 2004, by and among Grupo Televisa,S.A., The News Corporation Limited, Innova, S. de R.L. de C.V., The DIRECTV Group, Inc. and DIRECTV Latin America,LLC (incorporated by reference to Exhibit10.8 to the Form8-K of The DIRECTV Group,Inc. filed October15, 2004 (SEC File No.1-31945)) *10.2 3.5 Year Credit Agreement dated as of September28, 2012, by and among DIRECTV HoldingsLLC, DIRECTV and certain of DIRECTV HoldingsLLC's subsidiaries as Guarantors, and Citibank, N.A., as Administrative Agent, the lenders party to the 3.5 Year Credit Agreement, Barclays BankPLC, as Syndication Agent, Credit Suisse Securities (USA)LLC, J.P. Morgan SecuritiesLLC, Bank of America, N.A., The Royal Bank of ScotlandPLC and UBS SecuritiesLLC, as Co-Documentation Agents, and Citigroup Global MarketsInc., Barclays BankPLC, Credit Suisse Securities (USA)LLC, J.P. Morgan SecuritiesLLC, Merrill Lynch,  Pierce, Fenner& Smith Incorporated, RBS SecuritiesInc. and UBS SecuritiesLLC as Joint Lead Arrangers and Joint Bookrunners (incorporated by reference to Exhibit10.1 to the Form8-K of DIRECTV filed October4, 2012 (SEC File No.1-34554)) 140 Table of Contents DIRECTV Exhibit Number Exhibit Name *10.3 5 Year Credit Agreement dated as of September28, 2012, by and among Borrower and DIRECTV and certain of Borrower's subsidiaries as Guarantors, and Citibank, N.A., as Administrative Agent, the lenders party to the 5 Year Credit Agreement, Barclays BankPLC, as Syndication Agent, Credit Suisse Securities (USA)LLC, J.P. Morgan SecuritiesLLC, Bank of America, N.A., The Royal Bank of ScotlandPLC and UBS SecuritiesLLC, as Co-Documentation Agents, and Citigroup Global MarketsInc., Barclays BankPLC, Credit Suisse Securities (USA)LLC, J.P. Morgan SecuritiesLLC, Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner& Smith Incorporated, RBS SecuritiesInc. and UBS SecuritiesLLC as Joint Lead Arrangers and Joint Bookrunners (incorporated by reference to Exhibit10.2 to the Form8-K of DIRECTV filed October4, 2012 (SEC File No.1-34554)) *10.4 Amended and Restated DIRECTV Executive Deferred Compensation Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit10.5 of the Form8-K of DIRECTV filed on February23, 2012 (SEC File No.1-34554)) *10.5 The DIRECTV Group,Inc. Amended and Restated 2004 Stock Plan (incorporated by reference to AnnexB to The DIRECTV Group,Inc.'s Definitive Proxy Statement dated April27, 2007 and filed on April27, 2007 (SEC File No.1-31945)) *10.6 DIRECTV 2010 Stock Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit99 of the FormS-8 of DIRECTV filed on February14, 2011 (SEC File No.1-34554) and as modified in Form8-K of DIRECTV filed on December24, 2013 (SEC file No.1-34554)) *10.7 The Liberty Entertainment,Inc. Transitional Stock Adjustment Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit99(a) of the FormS-8 of DIRECTV filed on November19, 2009 (SEC File No.1-34554)) *10.8 DIRECTV Executive Officer Cash Bonus Plan (incorporated by reference to AnnexB to the DIRECTV Definitive Proxy Statement filed on April21, 2010 (SEC File No.1-34554)) *10.9 Summary Terms and Conditions for 2013 Performance RSU Grants (incorporated by reference to Exhibit10.3 to the Form8-K of DIRECTV filed February15, 2013 (SEC File No.1-34554)) *10.10 Summary Terms and Conditions for the 2013 Bonus (incorporated by reference to Exhibit10.4 to the Form8-K of DIRECTV filed February15, 2013 (SEC File No.1-34554)) *10.11 Summary Terms and Conditions for the 2013 Stock Options Grant (incorporated by reference to Exhibit10.5 to the Form8-K of DIRECTV filed February, 15 2013 (SEC File No.1-34554)) *10.12 DIRECTV Executive Severance Plan Document and Summary Plan Description (incorporated by reference to Exhibit10.1 of the Form8-K of DIRECTV filed on January27, 2012 (SEC File No.1-34554)) *10.13 Exchange Rights Agreement dated as of October8, 2004 among Globo, The News Corporation Limited and The DIRECTV Group,Inc. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit10.1 of the Form8-K of DIRECTV filed on June7, 2010 (SEC File No.1-34554)) *10.14 Amendment dated August27, 2010 to Exchange Rights Agreement dated as of October8, 2004 among Globo, The News Corporation Limited and The DIRECTV Group, Inc. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit10.1 of the Form10-Q of DIRECTV filed on November4, 2010 (SEC File No.1-34554 )) 141 Table of Contents DIRECTV Exhibit Number Exhibit Name *10.15 Share Exchange Agreement, dated as of April6, 2010 by and among DIRECTV, Dr.JohnC. Malone, Mrs.Leslie A. Malone, The TracyL. Neal Trust A, and The EvanD. Malone Trust A (incorporated by reference to Exhibit10.1 of the Form8-K of DIRECTV filed on April7, 2010 (SEC File No.1-34554)) *10.16 Form of Indemnification Agreement dated as of July29, 2011 between DIRECTV and NeilR. Austrian, RalphF. Boyd, Abelardo Bru, DavidB. Dillon, SamuelA. DiPiazza, Dixon R. Doll, CharlesR. Lee, PeterA. Lund, NancyS. Newcomb, Lorrie M. Norrington and Anthony Vinciquerra (incorporated by reference to Exhibit10.1 of the Form8-K of DIRECTV filed on August4, 2011 (SEC File No.1-34554)) *10.17 CEO Severance Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit10.2 of the Form8-K of DIRECTV filed on November2, 2012 (SEC File No.1-34554)) *10.18 DIRECTV Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors (incorporated by reference to Exhibit10.27 of the Form10-K of DIRECTV filed on February21, 2013 (SEC File No.1-34554)) *10.19 Form of 2013 Non-Qualified Stock Option Award Agreement between DIRECTV and MichaelD. White (incorporated by reference to Exhibit10.1 to the Form8-K of DIRECTV filed February, 15 2013 (SEC File No.1-34554)) *10.20 Form of 2013 Performance Stock Unit Award Agreement between DIRECTV and MichaelD. White (incorporated by reference to Exhibit10.1 to the Form8-K of DIRECTV filed February, 15 2013 (SEC File No.1-34554)) *10.21 Amendment of DIRECTV 2010 Stock Plan, adopted by the Compensation Committee of the DIRECTV Board of Directors (incorporated by reference to the Form8-K of DIRECTV filed December24, 2013 (SEC File No.1-34554)) *10.22 Form of 2014 Non-Qualified Stock Option Award Agreement between DIRECTV and MichaelD. White (incorporated by reference to Exhibit10.1 to the Form8-K of DIRECTV filed February20, 2014 (SEC File No.1-34554)) *10.23 Form of 2014 Performance Stock Unit Award Agreement between DIRECTV and MichaelD. White (incorporated by reference to Exhibit10.2 to the Form8-K of DIRECTV filed February20, 2014 (SEC File No.1-34554)) *10.24 Summary Terms and Conditions for 2014 Performance RSU Grants (incorporated by reference to Exhibit10.3 to the Form8-K of DIRECTV filed February20, 2014 (SEC File No.1-34554)) *10.25 Summary Terms and Conditions for the 2014 Cash Bonus (incorporated by reference to Exhibit10.4 to the Form8-K of DIRECTV filed February20, 2014 (SEC File No.1-34554)) *10.26 Summary Terms and Conditions for the 2014 Stock Option Grants (incorporated by reference to Exhibit10.5 to the Form8-K of DIRECTV filed February20, 2014 (SEC File No.1-34554)) *10.27 Summary Terms and Conditions for the 2015-2017 Time-Based RSU Grants (incorporated by reference to Exhibit10.2 to the Form8-K of DIRECTV filed February19, 2015 (SEC File No.1-34554)) 142 Table of Contents DIRECTV Exhibit Number Exhibit Name *10.28 Summary Terms and Conditions for the 2015 Bonus (incorporated by reference to Exhibit10.3 to the Form8-K of DIRECTV filed February19, 2015 (SEC File No.1-34554)) *10.29 Form of 2015 Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement between DIRECTV and MichaelD. White (incorporated by reference to Exhibit10.1 to the Form8-K of DIRECTV filed February19, 2015 (SEC File No.1-34554)) *14.1 DIRECTV Code of Ethics and Business Conduct, adopted November19, 2009 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit14.1 to the Form10-K of DIRECTV filed on February28, 2011 (SEC File No.1-34554)) **21 Subsidiaries of the Registrant as of December31, 2013 **23 Consent of Deloitte& ToucheLLP ***31.1 Certification of the Chief Executive Officer Pursuant to Section302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 ***31.2 Certification of the Chief Financial Officer Pursuant to Section302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 ***32.1 Certification of the Chief Executive Officer Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section1350, As Adopted Pursuant to Section906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 ***32.2 Certification of the Chief Financial Officer Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section1350, As Adopted Pursuant to Section906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 101.INS XBRL Instance Document 101.SCH XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document 101.CAL XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document 101.DEF XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document 101.LAB XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document 101.PRE XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document * Incorporated by reference.
** Filed herewith.
*** Furnished not filed.
Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.
A copy of any of the exhibits included in this Annual Report on Form10-K, other than those as to which confidential treatment has been granted by the Securities and Exchange Commission, upon payment of a fee to cover the reasonable expenses of furnishing such exhibits, may be obtained by written request to us at the address set forth on the front cover, attention General Counsel.
143 Table of Contents DIRECTV SCHEDULE IIVALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS Description Balance at beginning of year Additions charged to costs and expenses Additions charged to other accounts (a) Deductions (b) Balance at end of year (Dollars in Millions) Year Ended December31, 2014: Allowance for doubtful accounts deducted from accounts receivable $ (95 ) $ (311 ) $ (175 ) $ 472 $ (109 ) Year Ended December31, 2013: Allowance for doubtful accounts deducted from accounts receivable (81 ) (318 ) (174 ) 478 (95 ) Year Ended December31, 2012: Allowance for doubtful accounts deducted from accounts receivable (79 ) (332 ) (149 ) 479 (81 ) (a) Primarily reflects the recovery of accounts previously written-off.
(b) Primarily relates to accounts written-off.
144 Table of Contents DIRECTV SIGNATURES Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
DIRECTV (Registrant) Date: February24, 2015 By: /s/PATRICKT. DOYLE PatrickT. Doyle (Duly Authorized Officer and Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer) 145 Table of Contents DIRECTV EXHIBIT INDEX Exhibit Number Exhibit Name 21 Subsidiaries of the Registrant as of December31, 2013 23 Consent of Deloitte& ToucheLLP 31.1 Certification of the Chief Executive Officer Pursuant to Section302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 31.2 Certification of the Chief Financial Officer Pursuant to Section302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 32.1 Certification of the Chief Executive Officer Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section1350, As Adopted Pursuant to Section906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 32.2 Certification of the Chief Financial Officer Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section1350, As Adopted Pursuant to Section906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 101.INS XBRL Instance Document 101.SCH XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document 101.CAL XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document 101.DEF XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document 101.LAB XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document 101.PRE XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document A copy of any of the exhibits included in this Annual Report on Form10-K, other than those as to which confidential treatment has been granted by the Securities and Exchange Commission, upon payment of a fee to cover the reasonable expenses of furnishing such exhibits, may be obtained by written request to us at the address set forth on the front cover, attention General Counsel.