http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1800/000104746906002258/a2167223z10-k.htm
72913733900.0
ABT
2007-02-23
10-K
ABT_2007-02-23_10-K.txt

10-K 1 a2167223z10-k.htm 10-K QuickLinks -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION WASHINGTON, D. C. 20549 FORM 10-K (MARK ONE)  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 OR o TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 For the fiscal year ended December31, 2005 Commission file number 1-2189 Abbott Laboratories An Illinois Corporation 36-0698440 (I.R.S. employer identification number) 100 Abbott Park Road (847) 937-6100 Abbott Park, Illinois 60064-6400 (telephone number) Securities Registered Pursuant to Section12(b)of the Act: Title of Each Class Name of Each Exchange on Which Registered Common Shares, Without Par Value (including Preferred Stock Purchase Rights) New York Stock Exchange Chicago Stock Exchange Pacific Exchange Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule405 of the Securities Act.
Yes X No Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d)of the Act.
Yes No X Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1)has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d)of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2)has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.
Yes X No Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form10-K.[X] Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, or a non-accelerated filer. See definition of "accelerated filer and large accelerated filer" in Rule12b-2 of the Exchange Act.
Large Accelerated Filer X Accelerated Filer Non-accelerated Filer Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule12b-2 of the Exchange Act).
Yes No X The aggregate market value of the 1,487,731,767 shares of voting stock held by nonaffiliates of the registrant, computed by reference to the closing price as reported on the New York Stock Exchange, as of the last business day of Abbott Laboratories' most recently completed second fiscal quarter (June30, 2005), was approximately $72,913,733,900. Abbott has no non-voting common equity.
Number of common shares outstanding as of January31, 2006: 1,538,625,812 DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE Portions of the 2006 Abbott Laboratories Proxy Statement are incorporated by reference into Part III. The Proxy Statement will be filed on or about March 21, 2006.
PART I ITEM 1.BUSINESS GENERAL DEVELOPMENT OF BUSINESS Abbott Laboratories is an Illinois corporation, incorporated in 1900. Abbott's* principal business is the discovery, development, manufacture, and sale of a broad and diversified line of health care products.
* As used throughout the text of this report on Form10-K, the term "Abbott" refers to Abbott Laboratories, an Illinois corporation, or Abbott Laboratories and its consolidated subsidiaries, as the context requires.
FINANCIAL INFORMATION RELATING TO INDUSTRY SEGMENTS, GEOGRAPHIC AREAS, AND CLASSES OF SIMILAR PRODUCTS Incorporated herein by reference is Note6 entitled "Segment and Geographic Area Information" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included under Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data." NARRATIVE DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS Abbott has four reportable revenue segments: Pharmaceutical Products, Diagnostic Products, Ross Products, and International. Abbott also has a 50percent owned joint venture, TAP Pharmaceutical ProductsInc.
Abbott previously had five reportable segments. Effective January1, 2004, Abbott's segments were reorganized to reflect the shift of certain hospital pharmaceutical products from the Hospital Products segment to the Pharmaceutical Products segment, and the separation of the vascular and spinal products businesses into separate non-reportable segments. In addition, as of January1, 2004, the Diagnostic Products segment was reorganized into four separate divisions. For segment reporting purposes, these divisions are aggregated and reported as the Diagnostic Products segment.
In January2006, Abbott announced it entered into an agreement with Boston Scientific to acquire Guidant's vascular intervention and endovascular solutions businesses. The agreement is subject to approval by regulatory authorities and is contingent upon the closing of Boston Scientific's proposed acquisition of Guidant.
On April12, 2004, Abbott's board of directors declared a special dividend distribution of all of the outstanding shares of common stock of Hospira,Inc. For every 10 Abbott common shares held at the close of business on April22, 2004, Abbott shareholders received one common share of Hospira stock on April30, 2004. All of the shares of Hospira's common stock were distributed to Abbott shareholders on a pro-rata basis. Hospira included the operations relating to the manufacture and sale of hospital products including specialty injectable pharmaceuticals, medication delivery systems and critical care devices and injectable pharmaceutical contract manufacturing. Hospira included Abbott's Hospital Products segment after that segment's reorganization on January1, 2004, and portions of the International segment. The income and cash flows of Hospira and the direct transaction costs of the spin-off have been presented as discontinued operations in the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Earnings and Statement of Cash Flows. The balance sheet for 2003 has not been adjusted to reflect the effect of the spin-off. The presentation of segment data for 2003 has been adjusted to conform to the presentation in 2004 and 2005.
1 Pharmaceutical Products The Pharmaceutical Products segment's products include a broad line of adult and pediatric pharmaceuticals, which are sold primarily on the prescription, or recommendation, of physicians.
The principal products included in the Pharmaceutical Products segment are:  Depakote, an agent for the treatment of epilepsy, migraine, and bipolar disorder;  TriCor, for the treatment of dyslipidemia;  HUMIRA for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis and psoriatic arthritis;  the anti-infectives clarithromycin, sold in the United States under the trademark Biaxin, and Omnicef, an oral cephalosporin antibiotic;  Synthroid, for the treatment of hypothyroidism;  Mavik and Tarka, for the treatment of hypertension;  Meridia, for the treatment of obesity;  the anti-virals Kaletra and Norvir, protease inhibitors for the treatment of HIV infection;  the anesthesia product sevoflurane, sold in the United States under the trademark Ultane; and  the specialty product Zemplar, for the treatment of hyperparathyroidism.
In addition, through an agreement with Boehringer Ingelheim, the Pharmaceutical Products segment distributed and co-promoted Flomax for the treatment of benign prostatic hyperplasia, Micardis for the treatment of hypertension, and Mobic for the treatment of arthritis. Abbott's co-promotion of Flomax and Mobic expired as provided by the agreement in 2005. Abbott will co-promote Micardis through the end of March2006 and will receive residual commissions on Boehringer Ingelheim's sales of the three products. Abbott's activities as the distributor of these products ended effective January1, 2006.
The Pharmaceutical Products segment markets its products in the United States and generally sells its products directly to wholesalers, government agencies, health care facilities, and independent retailers from Abbott-owned distribution centers and public warehouses. This segment directs its primary marketing efforts toward securing the prescription of Abbott's brand of products by physicians. Managed care providers (for example, health maintenance organizations and pharmacy benefit managers) and state and federal governments and agencies (for example, the Department of Veterans Affairs and the Department of Defense) are also important customers.
Competition in the Pharmaceutical Products segment is generally from other health care and pharmaceutical companies. The search for technological innovations in pharmaceutical products is a significant aspect of competition in this segment. The introduction of new products by competitors and changes in medical practices and procedures can result in product obsolescence in the Pharmaceutical Products segment. Price can also be a factor. In addition, the substitution of generic drugs for the brand prescribed has increased competitive pressures on pharmaceutical products which are off-patent.
Diagnostic Products The Diagnostic Products segment's products include diagnostic systems and tests for blood banks, hospitals, commercial laboratories, physicians' offices, alternate-care testing sites, plasma protein therapeutic companies, and consumers.
The principal products included in the Diagnostic Products segment are:  immunoassay systems, including ARCHITECT, AxSYM, IMx, Abbott Quantum, Commander, Abbott PRISM, TDx, and TDxFlx; 2  chemistry systems such as ARCHITECT c8000 and Aeroset;  assays used for screening and/or diagnosis for drugs of abuse, cancer, therapeutic drug monitoring, fertility, physiological diseases, and infectious diseases such as hepatitis and HIV;  the Vysis product line of genomic-based tests, including the PathVysion HER-2 DNA probe kit and the UroVysion bladder cancer recurrence kit;  a full line of hematology systems and reagents known as the Cell-Dyn series;  the product line of FreeStyle blood glucose monitoring meters, test strips, data management software and accessories for people with diabetes, including FreeStyle, FreeStyle Flash (sold in certain international markets as FreeStyle Mini), FreeStyle Papillon, and FreeStyle Tracker, and other blood glucose monitoring meters, test strips, data management software and accessories, including Precision Xtra, MediSense Optium, Precision PCx, Precision Q.I.D., MediSenseII, TrueMeasure strips, Precision Link Direct, and Precision Sure-Dose insulin syringes; and  the i-STAT point-of-care diagnostic systems and tests for blood analysis, including the i-STAT system.
In addition, under its strategic alliance with Celera Diagnostics, a business of the Celera Genomics Group of Applera Corporation, the Diagnostic Products segment develops, manufactures and markets a broad range of in vitro molecular diagnostic products for disease detection, disease progression monitoring, and therapy selection. Through a sales and marketing agreement with Enfer ScientificLtd., the Diagnostic Products segment also distributes diagnostic tests in Europe and Japan that are used to detect bovine spongiform encephalopathy (BSE) in cattle.
The Diagnostic Products segment markets its products worldwide. These products are generally marketed and sold directly to hospitals, laboratories, clinics, and physicians' offices from Abbott-owned distribution centers and public warehouses. Outside the United States, sales are made either directly to customers or through distributors, depending on the market served. Blood glucose monitoring meters and test strips for people with diabetes are also marketed and sold over-the-counter to consumers.
The Diagnostic Products segment's products are subject to competition in technological innovation, price, convenience of use, service, instrument warranty provisions, product performance, long-term supply contracts, and product potential for overall cost-effectiveness and productivity gains. Some products in this segment can be subject to rapid product obsolescence. Although Abbott has benefited from technological advantages of certain of its current products, these advantages may be reduced or eliminated as competitors introduce new products. Certain of this segment's products are subject to restrictions on their sale in the United States under a consent decree entered in 1999. The consent decree is discussed in the section captioned, "Regulation" on page 8.
Ross Products The Ross Products segment's products include a broad line of pediatric and adult nutritionals. These products are sold directly to consumers, often on the recommendation of physicians or other health care professionals. The Ross Products segment also includes specialty pharmaceuticals.
Principal products in the Ross Products segment include:  various forms of prepared infant formula, including SimilacAdvance, Similac, Similac With Iron, Similac2, Isomil Advance, Isomil, Isomil2, Alimentum, and Similac NeoSure;  adult and other pediatric nutritional products, including Ensure, Ensure Plus, Ensure High Protein, Glucerna, ProSure, PediaSure, and Pedialyte; 3  nutritional products used in enteral feeding in health care institutions, including Jevity, Osmolite and Nepro;  the pharmaceutical product Survanta;  ZonePerfect bars; and  the EAS family of nutritional brands, including AdvantEdge and Myoplex.
In addition, the Ross Products segment co-promotes Synagis, for prevention of respiratory syncytial virus, under an agreement with MedImmuneInc. through June30, 2006.
The Ross Products segment markets its products in the United States, except for EAS and ZonePerfect retail products which are sold worldwide. In most cases, its products are distributed from Abbott-owned distribution centers or public warehouses.
It generally sells nutritional products directly to retailers, wholesalers, health care facilities, and government agencies. Currently, primary marketing efforts for nutritional products are directed toward securing the recommendation of Abbott's brand of products by physicians or other health care professionals. In addition, certain nutritional products are also promoted through direct to consumer marketing efforts. Similac Advance, Isomil Advance, PediaSure, Pedialyte, Ensure, Glucerna, ZonePerfect, and EAS retail products are promoted directly to the public by consumer advertising. These products are generally sold directly to retailers and wholesalers.
The Ross Products segment's pharmaceutical products are generally marketed directly to physicians, health care facilities, and government agencies and sold through wholesalers. Primary marketing efforts for this segment's pharmaceutical products are directed at securing the prescription of these products by physicians.
Competition for nutritional products in the Ross Products segment is generally other diversified consumer and health care manufacturers. Competitive factors include consumer advertising, formulation, packaging, scientific innovation, price, and availability of private label product forms. Competition for pharmaceutical products in the Ross Products segment is generally from other health care and pharmaceutical companies. A significant aspect of competition is the search for technological innovations. The introduction of new products by competitors and changes in medical practices and procedures can result in product obsolescence. Price can also be a factor. In addition, the substitution of generic drugs for the brand prescribed has increased competitive pressures on pharmaceutical products which are off-patent.
International The International segment's products include a broad line of pharmaceutical and adult and pediatric nutritional products marketed and primarily manufactured outside the United States. These products are sold primarily on the prescription or recommendation of physicians and other health care professionals. This segment also includes consumer products.
The International segment's principal products include:  the anti-infectives clarithromycin, sold under the trademarks Biaxin, Klacid and Klaricid, tosufloxacin, sold in Japan under the trademark Tosuxacin, and various forms of the antibiotic erythromycin, sold primarily as PCE or polymer-coated erythromycin, Erythrocin, and E.E.S.;  the anti-virals Kaletra and Norvir, protease inhibitors for the treatment of HIV infection;  Lupron, also marketed as Procrin, Lucrin, and Lupron Depot used for the palliative treatment of advanced prostate cancer, treatment of endometriosis and central precocious puberty, and for the preoperative treatment of patients with anemia caused by uterine fibroids;  Synagis for prevention of respiratory syncytial virus; 4  HUMIRA for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis and psoriatic arthritis;  Ogastro, also marketed as Prevacid (lansoprazole), a proton pump inhibitor for the short-term treatment of duodenal ulcers, gastric ulcers, and erosive esophagitis;  various cardiovascular products, including Loftyl, a vasoactive agent, Mavik (also marketed as Odrik and Goptin), Isoptin and Tarka (also marketed as Ocadrik) for the treatment of hypertension, Hytrin used for the treatment of hypertension and benign prostatic hyperplasia and candesartan (sold under the trademarks Blopress and Tiadyl), an angiotension 2 antagonist;  Reductil (also marketed as Reductyl, Reductal, and Meridia) for the treatment of obesity;  various forms of infant formulas and follow-on formulas, including SimilacAdvance, Gain, Abbott Grow, and PediaSure;  various adult medical nutritionals, including Ensure, Glucerna, and Jevity;  anesthesia products, including sevoflurane (sold outside of the United States primarily under the trademark Sevorane and in a few other markets as Ultane), isoflurane, and enflurane; and  specialty injectables such as Zemplar, Calcijex, Simdax, and Survanta.
The International segment's pharmaceutical and nutritional products are generally sold directly to government agencies, retailers, wholesalers, and health care facilities. In most cases, they are distributed from Abbott-owned distribution centers. Certain products are co-marketed or co-promoted with other companies. Some of these products are marketed and distributed through distributors. Primary marketing efforts for pharmaceutical products are directed toward securing the prescription of Abbott's brand of products by physicians. Primary marketing efforts for nutritional products are directed toward securing the recommendation of Abbott's brand of products by physicians or other health care professionals.
Competition for the International segment's pharmaceutical products is generally from other health care and pharmaceutical companies. A significant aspect of competition is the search for technological innovations. The introduction of new products by competitors and changes in medical practices and procedures can result in product obsolescence. Price can also be a factor. In addition, the substitution of generic drugs for the brand prescribed has increased competitive pressures on pharmaceutical products. Competition for the segment's nutritional products is generally from other health care manufacturers and food companies. Nutritional products are subject to competition in price, scientific innovation, formulation, and promotional initiatives.
TAP Pharmaceutical ProductsInc.
Under an agreement between Abbott and Takeda Pharmaceutical Company, Limited of Japan (Takeda), TAP Pharmaceutical ProductsInc. (owned 50percent by Abbott and 50percent by an affiliate of Takeda), together with its subsidiary, TAP PharmaceuticalsInc. (TAP), develops and markets pharmaceutical products primarily for the United States and Canada. TAP markets Lupron, an LH-RH analog, and Lupron Depot, a sustained release form of Lupron, in the United States. Lupron and Lupron Depot are used principally for the palliative treatment of advanced prostate cancer, for the treatment of endometriosis and central precocious puberty and for the preoperative treatment of patients with anemia caused by uterine fibroids. TAP also markets Prevacid (lansoprazole), a proton pump inhibitor. Its principal indications are for short-term treatment of gastroesophageal reflux disease, duodenal ulcers, gastric ulcers, and erosive esophagitis.
TAP's products are generally sold directly to physicians, retailers, wholesalers, health care facilities, and government agencies. In most cases, they are distributed for TAP from Abbott-owned distribution centers. Primary marketing efforts for pharmaceutical products are directed toward securing the prescription of TAP's brand of products by physicians. Managed care purchasers (for example, health maintenance organizations and pharmacy benefit managers) are increasingly important customers.
5 Competition is generally from other pharmaceutical companies. A significant aspect of competition is the search for technological innovations. The introduction of new products by competitors and changes in medical practices and procedures can result in product obsolescence. Price can also be a factor. In addition, the availability of over-the-counter drugs or the substitution of generic drugs for the brand prescribed has increased competitive pressures.
INFORMATION WITH RESPECT TO ABBOTT'S BUSINESS IN GENERAL Sources and Availability of Raw Materials Abbott purchases, in the ordinary course of business, raw materials and supplies essential to Abbott's operations from numerous suppliers in the United States and abroad. There have been no recent significant availability problems or supply shortages.
Patents, Trademarks, and Licenses Abbott is aware of the desirability for patent and trademark protection for its products. Accordingly, where possible, patents and trademarks are sought and obtained for Abbott's products in the United States and all countries of major marketing interest to Abbott. Abbott owns and is licensed under a substantial number of patents and patent applications. Principal trademarks and the products they cover are discussed in the Narrative Description of Business on pages 1 through 6. These, and various patents which expire during the period 2006 to 2025, in the aggregate are believed to be of material importance in the operation of Abbott's business. Abbott believes that no single patent, license, trademark (or related group of patents, licenses, or trademarks), except for those related to adalimumab (which is sold under the trademark HUMIRA), those related to clarithromycin (which is sold under the trademarks Biaxin, Klacid, and Klaricid), those related to divalproex sodium (which is sold under the trademark Depakote), those related to lansoprazole (which is sold under the trademarks Prevacid and Ogastro), and those related to lopinavir/ritonavir (which is sold under the trademark Kaletra), are material in relation to Abbott's business as a whole. The United States composition of matter patents covering adalimumab will expire in 2016. The United States composition of matter patent covering clarithromycin is licensed from Taisho Pharmaceutical Co.,Ltd. of Tokyo, Japan, and expired in 2005. The United States composition of matter patents covering divalproex sodium will expire in 2008. The United States composition of matter patent covering lansoprazole is licensed by TAP from Takeda and will expire in 2009. The United States composition of matter patent covering lopinavir will expire in 2015. The United States composition of matter patents covering ritonavir will expire in 2013 and 2014. The United States composition of matter patent covering lopinavir/ritonavir will expire in 2016. In addition, the patents, licenses, and trademarks related to fenofibrate (which is sold under the trademark TriCor) are significant for Abbott's Pharmaceutical Products segment and the patents, licenses, and trademarks related to sevoflurane (which is sold under the trademarks Sevorane and Ultane) are significant for Abbott's International segment. The principal United States non-composition of matter patents covering the fenofibrate products will expire in 2009, 2011, 2018, and 2020. The principal non-composition of matter patents covering sevoflurane in the International segment's major markets will expire in 2018. Litigation involving Abbott's patents covering clarithromycin, divalproex sodium, sevoflurane and fenofibrate is discussed in Legal Proceedings on pages 15 through 18.
Although the expiration of a composition of matter patent may lead to increased competition, in most cases Abbott owns or has a license to other patents that expire after the composition of matter patent related to particular formulations, uses, or processes for manufacturing the pharmaceutical. These non-composition of matter patents and Abbott's other intellectual property, along with such other factors as a competitor's need to obtain regulatory approvals prior to marketing a competitive product and the nature of the market, may allow Abbott to continue to maintain exclusivity or have other commercial advantages after the expiration of the composition of matter patent.
6 Seasonal Aspects, Customers, Backlog, and Renegotiation There are no significant seasonal aspects to Abbott's business. The incidence of certain infectious diseases which occur at various times in different areas of the world does, however, affect the demand for Abbott's anti-infective products. Orders for Abbott's products are generally filled on a current basis, and order backlog is not material to Abbott's business. Abbott has no single customer that, if the customer were lost, would have a material adverse effect on Abbott. No material portion of Abbott's business is subject to renegotiation of profits or termination of contracts at the election of the government.
Research and Development Abbott spent $1,821,175,000 in 2005, $1,696,753,000 in 2004, and $1,623,752,000 in 2003 on research to discover and develop new products and processes and to improve existing products and processes. The majority of research and development expenditures is concentrated on pharmaceutical products.
Environmental Matters Abbott believes that its operations comply in all material respects with applicable laws and regulations concerning environmental protection. Regulations under federal and state environmental laws impose stringent limitations on emissions and discharges to the environment from various manufacturing operations. Abbott's capital and operating expenditures for pollution control in 2005 were approximately $9million and $62million, respectively. Capital and operating expenditures for pollution control in 2006 are estimated to be $6million and $65million, respectively.
Abbott has been identified as one of many potentially responsible parties in investigations and/or remediations at several locations in the United States including Puerto Rico under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act, commonly known as Superfund. Abbott is also engaged in remediation at several other sites, some of which are owned by Abbott, in cooperation with the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) or similar agencies. While it is not feasible to predict with certainty the final costs related to those investigations and remediation activities, Abbott believes that such costs, together with other expenditures to maintain compliance with applicable laws and regulations concerning environmental protection, should not have a material adverse effect on Abbott's financial position, cash flows, or operations.
Employees Abbott employed approximately 59,735 persons as of December31, 2005.
Regulation The development, manufacture, sale, and distribution of Abbott's products are subject to comprehensive government regulation. Government regulation by various federal, state, and local agencies, which includes detailed inspection of, and controls over, research and laboratory procedures, clinical investigations, product approvals and manufacturing, marketing and promotion, sampling, distribution, record keeping, storage, and disposal practices, substantially increases the time, difficulty, and costs incurred in obtaining and maintaining the approval to market newly developed and existing products. Government regulatory actions can result in delay in the release of products, seizure or recall of products, suspension or revocation of the authority necessary for their production and sale, and other civil or criminal sanctions. In addition, governmental regulatory agencies require prescription drug and medical device manufacturers to pay fees, such as application, product, and establishment fees.
7 Abbott is a party to a consent decree entered in 1999 that requires Abbott to ensure its diagnostics manufacturing processes in Lake County, Illinois conform with the FDA's Quality System Regulation and restricts the sale in the United States of certain products in the Diagnostics Product segment. In 2003, the FDA concluded that those operations were in substantial conformity with that regulation. Abbott is introducing new diagnostics products manufactured at its Lake County, Illinois facilities and continuing the process of reintroducing products removed from the market as a result of the consent decree.
International operations are also subject to a significant degree of government regulation and country-specific rules and regulations. Many countries, directly or indirectly, through reimbursement limitations, control the selling price of most health care products. Furthermore, many countries limit the importation of raw materials and finished products.
Continuing studies of the utilization, safety, and efficacy of health care products and their components are being conducted by industry, government agencies, and others. Such studies, which employ increasingly sophisticated methods and techniques, can call into question the utilization, safety, and efficacy of previously marketed products and in some cases have resulted, and may in the future result, in the discontinuance of marketing of such products and may give rise to claims for damages from persons who believe they have been injured as a result of their use.
Access to and the cost of human health care products continues to be a subject of investigation and action by governmental agencies, legislative bodies, and private organizations in the United States and other countries. In the United States, most states have enacted generic substitution legislation requiring or permitting a dispensing pharmacist to substitute a different manufacturer's version of a pharmaceutical product for the one prescribed. In 2006, a prescription drug benefit was implemented under the Medicare program, providing eligible individuals with greater access to prescription drugs. Although it is not yet possible to assess the overall impact on Abbott, potential increases in sales volume may be offset by federal government efforts to manage the costs of the Medicare program. In addition, the federal government follows a diagnosis-related group (DRG) payment system for certain institutional services provided under Medicare or Medicaid and has implemented a prospective payment system (PPS) for services delivered in hospital outpatient, nursing home, and home health settings. DRG and PPS entitle a health care facility to a fixed reimbursement based on diagnosis rather than actual costs incurred in patient treatment, thereby increasing the incentive for the facility to limit or control expenditures for many health care products. Under federal law, manufacturers must pay certain statutorily-prescribed rebates to state Medicaid programs on prescription drugs reimbursed under state Medicaid plans. In addition, a majority of states are seeking additional rebates. The Veterans Health Care Act of 1992 requires manufacturers to extend additional discounts on pharmaceutical products to various federal agencies, including the Department of Veterans Affairs, Department of Defense, Public Health Service entities and institutions, as well as certain other covered entities.
In the United States, governmental cost containment efforts have extended to the federally funded Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants, and Children (WIC). States participating in WIC have sought and obtained rebates from manufacturers of infant formula whose products are used in the program and have conducted competitive bidding for infant formula contracts. States participating in WIC are required to engage in competitive bidding or use other cost containment measures that result in similar savings.
Abbott expects debate to continue during 2006 at both the federal and the state level over the availability, method of delivery, and payment for health care products and services. Abbott believes that if legislation is enacted, it could have the effect of reducing prices, or reducing the rate of price increases, for health care products and services.
Efforts to reduce health care costs are also being made in the private sector. Health care providers have responded by instituting various cost reduction and containment measures.
8 It is not possible to predict the extent to which Abbott or the health care industry in general might be affected by the matters discussed above.
INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS Abbott markets products in approximately 130 countries through affiliates and distributors. Most of the products discussed in the preceding sections of this report are also sold outside the United States. In addition, certain products of a local nature and variations of product lines to meet local regulatory requirements and marketing preferences are manufactured and marketed to customers outside the United States. International operations are subject to certain additional risks inherent in conducting business outside the United States, including price and currency exchange controls, changes in currency exchange rates, limitations on foreign participation in local enterprises, expropriation, nationalization, and other governmental action.
INTERNET INFORMATION Copies of Abbott's Annual Report on Form10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form10-Q, Current Reports on Form8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are available free of charge through Abbott's investor relations website (www.abbottinvestor.com) as soon as reasonably practicable after Abbott electronically files the material with, or furnishes it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Abbott's corporate governance guidelines, outline of directorship qualifications, code of business conduct and the charters of Abbott's audit committee, compensation committee, nominations and governance committee, and public policy committee are all available on Abbott's investor relations website (www.abbottinvestor.com) or by sending a request for a paper copy to: Abbott Laboratories, 100 Abbott Park Road, Dept. 362, AP6D2, Abbott Park, Illinois 60064-6048, attn. Investor Relations.
ITEM 1A.RISK FACTORS Abbott may acquire other businesses, license rights to technologies or products, form alliances, or dispose of or spin-off businesses, which could cause it to incur significant expenses and could negatively affect profitability.
Abbott may pursue acquisitions of complementary businesses, technology licensing arrangements, and strategic alliances to expand its product offerings and geographic presence as part of its business strategy. Abbott may not complete these transactions in a timely manner, on a cost-effective basis, or at all, and may not realize the expected benefits of any acquisition, license arrangement, or strategic alliance. Other companies may compete with Abbott for these strategic opportunities. Further, even if Abbott is successful in making the acquisition, the products and technologies that are acquired may not be successful or may require significantly greater resources and investments than originally anticipated. Abbott may not be able to integrate acquisitions successfully into its existing business and could incur or assume significant debt and unknown or contingent liabilities. Abbott could also experience negative effects on its reported results of operations from acquisition-related charges, amortization of expenses related to intangibles and charges for impairment of long-term assets. These effects, individually or in combination, could cause a deterioration of Abbott's credit rating and result in increased borrowing costs and interest expense. Abbott could experience difficulties in integrating geographically separated organizations, systems and facilities, and personnel with diverse backgrounds. Integration of an acquired business also may require management resources that otherwise would be available for ongoing development of Abbott's existing business.
Abbott may also dispose of or spin-off some of its businesses. Abbott may not complete these transactions in a timely manner, or at all, and may not realize their expected benefits.
9 The expiration of patent protection and licenses may affect Abbott's future revenues and operating income.
Many of Abbott's businesses rely on patent and trademark and other intellectual property protection. Although most of the challenges to Abbott's intellectual property have come from other businesses, governments may also challenge intellectual property protections. To the extent Abbott's intellectual property is successfully challenged, invalidated, or circumvented or to the extent it does not allow Abbott to compete effectively, Abbott's business will suffer. To the extent that countries do not enforce Abbott's intellectual property rights or require compulsory licensing of its intellectual property, Abbott's future revenues and operating income will be reduced.
Abbott's principal patents and trademarks are described in greater detail in the sections captioned, "Patents, Trademarks, and Licenses" and "Financial Review," and litigation regarding these patents is described in the section captioned "Legal Proceedings." Competitors' intellectual property may prevent Abbott from selling its products or have a material adverse effect on Abbott's future profitability and financial condition.
Competitors may claim that an Abbott product infringes upon their intellectual property. A successful claim of patent or other intellectual property infringement against Abbott could adversely affect Abbott's profitability or financial condition, in some cases materially. Abbott cannot assure that it does not, in fact, infringe upon other's intellectual property. Resolving an intellectual property infringement claim can be costly and time consuming and may require Abbott to enter into royalty or license agreements. If this should be necessary, Abbott cannot guarantee that it would be able to obtain royalty or license agreements on commercially reasonable terms. A successful claim of patent or other intellectual property infringement could subject Abbott to significant damages or an injunction preventing the manufacture, sale or use of affected Abbott products. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on Abbott's profitability and financial condition.
Abbott is subject to cost-containment efforts.
In the United States and other countries, access to and the cost of human health care products continues to be subject to downward pressure on prices. Cost-containment efforts by the government and private organizations are described in greater detail in the section captioned "Regulation." In markets outside the United States, Abbott's businesses have experienced downward pressure on product pricing. Many countries, directly or indirectly, through limitations on reimbursement or availability, control the selling price of most health care products. To the extent these cost containment efforts are not offset by greater patient access to healthcare or other factors, Abbott's future revenues and operating income will be reduced.
Abbott is subject to numerous governmental regulations and it can be costly to comply with these regulations and to develop compliant products and processes.
Abbott's products are subject to rigorous regulation by the Federal Food and Drug Administration, and numerous other national, supranational, federal and state authorities. The process of obtaining regulatory approvals to market a drug or medical device, particularly from the FDA and certain governmental authorities outside the United States, can be costly and time-consuming, and approvals might not be granted for future products on a timely basis, if at all. Regulation is not static. The suspension, revocation, or adverse amendment of the authority necessary for manufacture, marketing, or sale, and the imposition of additional or different regulatory requirements, such as those affecting labeling can also occur. Delays in the receipt of, or failure to obtain approvals for, future products could result in delayed realization of product revenues and in substantial additional costs.
In addition, no assurance can be given that Abbott will remain in compliance with applicable FDA and other regulatory requirements once clearance or approval has been obtained for a product. These 10 requirements include, among other things, regulations regarding manufacturing practices, product labeling and advertising and postmarketing reporting, including adverse event reports and field alerts due to manufacturing quality concerns. Many of Abbott's facilities and procedures and those of Abbott's suppliers are subject to ongoing regulation, including periodic inspection by the FDA and other regulatory authorities. For example, developers and manufacturers of health care products, including pharmaceutical products, medical devices, and nutritional products must comply with detailed regulations governing current good manufacturing, laboratory and clinical practices, including requirements relating to quality control and quality assurance. Abbott must incur expense and spend time and effort to ensure compliance with these complex regulations. In the past, Abbott's business has received notices alleging violations of these regulations, and Abbott has modified practices in response to these notices.
Abbott's manufacturing facilities and those of Abbott's suppliers could be subject to significant adverse regulatory actions in the future. These possible regulatory actions could include warning letters, fines, damages, injunctions, civil penalties, recalls, seizures of Abbott's products and criminal prosecution. These actions could result in, among other things, substantial modifications to Abbott's business practices and operations; refunds, recalls or seizures of Abbott's products; a total or partial shutdown of production in one or more of Abbott's facilities while Abbott remedies the alleged violation; the inability to obtain future pre-market clearances or approvals; and withdrawals or suspensions of current products from the market. Any of these events, in combination or alone, could disrupt Abbott's business and have a material adverse effect on Abbott's revenues, profitability and financial condition.
Laws and regulations affecting government benefit programs could impose new obligations on Abbott, require Abbott to change its business practices, and restrict its operations in the future.
Abbott's industry is also subject to various federal and state laws pertaining to government benefit program reimbursement, price reporting and regulation, and health care fraud and abuse, including anti-kickback and false claims laws, the Medicaid Rebate Statute, the Veterans Health Care Act and individual state laws relating to pricing. Violations of these laws may be punishable by criminal and/or civil sanctions, including, in some instances, substantial fines, imprisonment and exclusion from participation in federal and state health care programs, including Medicare, Medicaid, and Veterans Administration health programs. These laws and regulations are broad in scope and they are subject to evolving interpretations, which could require Abbott to incur substantial costs associated with compliance or to alter one or more of its sales or marketing practices. In addition, violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, could disrupt Abbott's business and result in a material adverse effect on Abbott's revenues, profitability and financial condition.
If Abbott does not introduce new products in a timely manner, Abbott's products may become obsolete over time, customers may not buy Abbott's products, and Abbott's revenue and profitability may decline.
Demand for Abbott's products may change in ways Abbott does not anticipate. This could occur, for example, due to changing customer needs, the introduction by others of new products and technologies, or changing industry standards. Without the timely introduction of new products and enhancements, Abbott's products may become obsolete over time, causing Abbott's revenue and operating results to suffer. Even if Abbott succeeds in creating new product candidates, these candidates may not become commercially successful products.
The success of Abbott's new products will depend on a variety of factors, including Abbott's ability to:  properly anticipate and satisfy customer needs;  innovate, develop, and manufacture new products in an economical and timely manner;  differentiate Abbott's offerings from competitors' offerings;  achieve positive clinical outcomes for new products; 11  meet safety requirements and other regulatory requirements of government agencies;  avoid infringing the proprietary rights of third parties; and  establish and maintain its intellectual property rights.
Even if Abbott successfully develops new products or enhancements or new generations of Abbott's existing products, these new products or enhancements or new generations of Abbott's existing products may be quickly rendered obsolete by changing customer preferences or the introduction by Abbott's competitors of products embodying new technologies or features. Finally, innovations may not be accepted quickly in the marketplace because of, among other things, entrenched patterns of clinical practice, the need for regulatory clearance, and uncertainty over third-party reimbursement.
The manufacture of many of Abbott's products is a highly exacting and complex process, and if Abbott or one of its suppliers encounters problems manufacturing products, Abbott's business could suffer.
The manufacture of many of Abbott's products is a highly exacting and complex process, due in part to strict regulatory requirements, which govern their manufacture. Problems may arise during manufacturing for a variety of reasons, including equipment malfunction, failure to follow specific protocols and procedures, problems with raw materials, natural disasters and environmental factors. If problems arise during the production of a batch of product, that batch of product may have to be discarded. This could, among other things, lead to increased costs, lost revenue, damage to customer relations, time and expense spent investigating the cause and, depending on the cause, similar losses with respect to other batches or products. If problems are not discovered before the product is released to the market, recall and product liability costs may also be incurred. To the extent Abbott or one of its suppliers experiences significant manufacturing problems, this could have a material adverse effect on Abbott's revenues and profitability.
The international nature of Abbott's business subjects it to additional business risks that may cause its revenue and profitability to decline.
Abbott's business is subject to risks associated with doing business internationally. Sales outside of the United States make up more than 40% of Abbott's net sales. The risks associated with Abbott's operations outside the United States include:  changes in foreign medical reimbursement policies and programs;  multiple foreign regulatory requirements that are subject to change and that could restrict Abbott's ability to manufacture and sell its products;  differing local product preferences and product requirements;  fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and in interest rates;  trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements;  difficulty in establishing, staffing, and managing foreign operations;  differing labor regulations;  potentially negative consequences from changes in or interpretations of tax laws;  political and economic instability;  inflation, recession, interest rate fluctuations, and actual or anticipated military or political conflicts; and  diminished protection of intellectual property in some countries.
12 These risks may, individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on Abbott's revenues and profitability.
Significant safety issues could arise for Abbott's products, which could have a material adverse effect on Abbott's revenues and financial condition.
All health care products, including pharmaceutical products, medical products, and nutritionals, receive regulatory approval based on data obtained in controlled clinical trials of limited duration. Following regulatory approval, these products will be used over longer periods of time in many patients. Investigators may also conduct additional, and perhaps more extensive, studies or studies for different indications. If new safety issues are reported, Abbott may be required to amend the conditions of use for a product. For example, Abbott may be required to provide additional warnings on a product's label or narrow its approved indication, either of which could reduce the product's market acceptance. If serious safety issues with an Abbott product arise, sales of the product could be halted by Abbott or by regulatory authorities.
In addition, in the ordinary course of business, Abbott is the subject of product liability claims and lawsuits alleging that its products have resulted or could result in an unsafe condition or injury to patients. Product liability claims and lawsuits and safety alerts or product recalls, regardless of their ultimate outcome, may have a material adverse effect on Abbott's business and reputation and on Abbott's ability to attract and retain customers. Product liability claims could have a material adverse effect on Abbott's profitability and financial condition.
Abbott faces significant competition and may not be able to compete effectively.
Abbott competes with many companies ranging from other multinational companies to small start-up companies. Competition takes many forms, including responding to pricing pressures from managed care groups and government agencies, the development of new products by competitors having lower prices or superior performance or that are otherwise competitive with Abbott's current products, generic competition when Abbott's products lose their patent or regulatory protection, technological advances, patents and registrations obtained by competitors, and business combinations among Abbott's competitors or major customers. Abbott's present or future products could be rendered obsolete or uneconomical as the result of this competition. Abbott's failure to compete effectively could cause it to lose market share to its competitors and/or have a material adverse effect on its revenues and profitability.
External economic forces, over which Abbott has no control, can have a material adverse effect on Abbott's future profitability and financial condition.
Many external economic forces can affect Abbott's profitability and its financial condition. For example, to calculate its cost for pension and post-employment benefits, Abbott must use the long-term assumptions it has developed with the assistance of its actuaries. These include assumptions regarding the health care cost trend rate, discount (interest) rate, and the expected return on plan assets. Similarly, to determine its stock-based compensation costs, Abbott must develop assumptions regarding the volatility of Abbott's common shares, option life, the associated tax benefit, and discount (interest) rate. These assumptions are based on an analysis of external economic factors over which Abbott has no control. To the extent these factors change over time or actual results differ from these assumptions, Abbott may incur increased costs, some of which may be material.
ITEM 1B.UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not Applicable.
13 ITEM 2.PROPERTIES Abbott's corporate offices are located at 100 Abbott Park Road, Abbott Park, Illinois 60064-6400. The locations of Abbott's principal plants, as of December31, 2005, are listed below.
Location Reportable Segments of Products Produced Abbott Park, Illinois Pharmaceutical Products and Diagnostic Products Abingdon, England* Diagnostic Products Alameda, California* Diagnostic Products Altavista, Virginia Ross Products Barceloneta, Puerto Rico Pharmaceutical Products and Diagnostic Products Brockville, Canada International Campoverde, Italy International Casa Grande, Arizona Ross Products Columbus, Ohio Ross Products Cootehill, Ireland International Delkenheim, Germany Diagnostic Products Des Plaines, Illinois Molecular a non-reportable segment Fairfield, California* Ross Products Irving, Texas Diagnostic Products Jayuya, Puerto Rico Pharmaceutical Products Kanata, Canada* Diagnostic Products Katsuyama, Japan International Ludwigshafen, Germany International North Chicago, Illinois Pharmaceutical Products Queenborough, England International Redwood City, California* Vascular a non-reportable segment Rio de Janeiro, Brazil International Santa Clara, California Diagnostic Products Sligo, Ireland International Sturgis, Michigan Ross Products Worcester, Massachusetts* Pharmaceutical Products Zwolle, the Netherlands International * Leased property In addition to the above, Abbott has manufacturing facilities in seven other locations in the United States, including Puerto Rico. Outside the United States, manufacturing facilities are located in fourteen other countries. Abbott's facilities are deemed suitable and provide adequate productive capacity.
In the United States, including Puerto Rico, Abbott owns nine distribution centers. Outside the United States, Abbott also owns nine distribution centers. Abbott also has fifteen United States research and development facilities located at: Abbott Park, Illinois; Alameda, California; Austin, Texas; Columbus, Ohio (two locations); Des Plaines, Illinois; East Windsor, New Jersey; Fairfield, California; Golden, Colorado; Irving, Texas; North Chicago, Illinois; Parsippany, New Jersey; Redwood City, California; Santa Clara, California; and Worcester, Massachusetts. Outside the United States, Abbott has research and development facilities in Argentina, Australia, Belgium, Canada, France, Germany, Ireland, Japan, the Netherlands, South Africa, Spain, Switzerland, and the United Kingdom.
Except as noted, the corporate offices, and those principal plants in the United States listed above, are owned by Abbott or subsidiaries of Abbott. The remaining manufacturing plants and all other facilities are owned or leased by Abbott or subsidiaries of Abbott. There are no material encumbrances on the properties.
14 ITEM 3.LEGAL PROCEEDINGS Abbott is involved in various claims, legal proceedings and investigations, including (as of January31, 2006) those described below.
Five cases are pending in which Abbott seeks to enforce its patents for divalproex sodium (a drug that Abbott sells under the trademark Depakote). Abbott filed two of those cases in November2005 in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Illinois and in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of West Virginia seeking injunctive relief against Mylan Pharmaceuticals' proposed generic version of extended release Depakote. Abbott filed two other cases relating to proposed generic versions of delayed release Depakote seeking injunctive relief: Nu-PharmInc.
(filed in June2005 in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Illinois) and Alra Laboratories,Inc.
(filed in August1992 in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Illinois). The fifth case was brought by Abbott in May2003 against Andrx Corporation, Andrx Pharmaceuticals,Inc., Andrx LabsInc., and Andrx Pharmaceuticals, LLC ("Andrx") in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Florida after Andrx submitted a Section505(b)(2) NDA for a non-AB rated product described as sodium valproate tablets. In this case, the parties have agreed in principle to settle on terms not material to Abbott. Abbott will not report on this case in the future.
One case is pending in which Abbott seeks to protect the patents for fenofibrate (a drug Abbott sells under the trademark TriCor): Reliant Pharmaceuticals , filed in June2004 in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware. Reliant seeks a declaratory judgment that its generic fenofibrate product does not infringe the patents or that the patents are invalid. One case is pending in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas, Chiron Corporation and Rockefeller University v. Abbott and Centocor, related to the patents covering monoclonal antibodies, which plaintiffs claim covers adalimumab (a drug sold by Abbott under the trademark Humira). Plaintiffs seek compensatory damages and unspecified equitable relief.
Six cases are pending related to Abbott's patents for sevoflurane (an anesthesia product Abbott sells under the trademarks Ultane and Sevorane). Two cases brought by Abbott and Central Glass Company,Ltd. (Central Glass) against Baxter Healthcare Corporation (Baxter) are pending in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois and allege that Baxter's proposed generic sevoflurane product infringes their formulation patents. In one of those cases, the court ruled that Abbott's patent is valid but Baxter's product does not infringe Abbott's patent. Abbott has appealed that decision. One case, filed by Baxter and Baxter HealthcareLtd. in June2005 against Abbott and Central Glass, is pending in the United Kingdom, High Court of Justice; one case, filed by Abbott and Central Glass in May2005 against Baxter Company,Ltd., is pending in the Tokyo District Court in Japan. Two cases regarding a generic sevoflurane product sold by Cristalia Productos Quimicos Farmaceuticos,Ltda. are pending in the Sao Paulo State Court in Brazil.
Abbott is involved in litigation pending in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois related to Abbott's patents for clarithromycin (a drug Abbott sells under the trademarks Biaxin, BiaxinXL, Klacid, and Klaricid) and the proposed extended release products of the following companies: Teva Pharmaceuticals USA,Inc.
(filed in March2005), Ranbaxy LaboratoriesLtd. and Ranbaxy Pharmaceuticals,Inc.
(filed in December2004), Andrx Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
(filed in March2005), and Sandoz (filed in September2005). In June2005, Abbott obtained a preliminary injunction against Teva, and in November2005, against Ranbaxy and Andrx, preventing each from launching their extended release clarithromycin products. Teva, Ranbaxy, and Andrx have appealed these decisions. Andrx filed a lawsuit involving the same patents as the Illinois litigation in the Southern District of Florida in March2005, but that lawsuit has been stayed. Litigation was previously pending against Genpharm,Inc. and Roxane related to their immediate release formulations of clarithromycin. Abbott has resolved this litigation on terms not material to Abbott. The remaining litigation related to the immediate release formulation is not material to Abbott. Litigation relating to Abbott's clarithroymcin patents is also pending in Canada.
15 Twenty lawsuits, including fifteen purported class actions, are pending against Abbott, Fournier Industrie et Sante, and Laboratories Fournier, S.A. (Fournier), alleging antitrust and unfair competition claims in connection with the sale of fenofibrate formulations. One purported class action, Paul T. Regan (filed in July2005), is pending in the United States District Court for the Central District of California. The other fourteen purported class actions and five individual actions are pending in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware: Alberto Litter (filed in August2005), Allied Services Division Welfare Fund and Hector Valdes (filed in June2005), Cindy Cronin (filed in July2005), Diana Kim (filed in June2005), Local 28 Sheet Metal Workers (filed in July2005), Louisiana Wholesale Drug Company,Inc.
(filed in June2005), Meijer,Inc.
(filed in June2005), Painters District Council No.30 Health and Welfare Fund (filed in June2005), Pennsylvania Employees Benefit Trust Fund (filed in June2005), Philadelphia Federation of Teachers Health and Welfare Fund (filed in July2005), Elaine M. Pullman (filed in June2005), Rochester Drug Co-Operative,Inc.
(filed in June2005), Charles M. Shain (filed in July2005), and Vista Healthplan,Inc.
(filed in June2005), CVS Pharmacy,Inc.
(filed in August2005), Impax Laboratories (filed in June2005), Pacificare Health Systems,Inc.
(filed in August2005), Teva Pharmaceuticals USA,Inc.
(filed in June2005), and Walgreen Co.
(filed in June2005). The plaintiffs seek actual damages, treble damages and other relief.
A number of cases, brought as purported class actions or representative actions on behalf of individuals or entities, are pending that allege generally that Abbott and numerous other pharmaceutical companies reported false pricing information in connection with certain drugs that are reimbursable under Medicare and Medicaid and by private payors. These cases brought by private plaintiffs, State Attorneys General and certain New York Counties generally seek monetary damages and/or injunctive relief and attorneys fees. The federal court cases have been consolidated in the United States District Court for the District of Massachusetts under the Multidistrict Litigation Rules as In re: Pharmaceutical Industry Average Wholesale Price Litigation, MDL 1456 . The following previously reported cases have now been transferred to MDL 1456: City of New York and County of Nassau.
Two cases filed in state court have been removed to federal court and transferred to MDL 1456: Commonwealth of Kentucky, filed in September2003 in the Circuit Court of Franklin County, Kentucky and State of Illinois , filed in February2005 in the Circuit Court of Cook County, Illinois. Thirty-six New York counties filed cases in federal court in 2005 and they have been or will be transferred to MDL 1456 . Eleven cases are also pending in state courts: State of West Virginia ex rel. Darrell V. McGraw, Jr., Attorney General , filed in October2001 in the Circuit Court of Kanawha County, West Virginia; State of Nevada , filed in January2002 in the Second Judicial District Court in Washoe County, Nevada; Swanston , filed in March2002 in the Superior Court for Maricopa County, Arizona; Commonwealth of Pennsylvania , filed in March2004 in the Commonwealth Court of Pennsylvania; State of Ohio , filed in March2004 in the Court of Common Pleas, Hamilton County, Ohio; State of Texas ex rel. Greg Abbott, Attorney General , filed in May2004 in the District Court of Travis County, Texas; State of Wisconsin, filed in June2004 in the Circuit Court of Dane County, Wisconsin; State of Alabama, filed in January2005 in the Circuit Court of Montgomery County, Alabama; State of Mississippi, filed in October2005 in Hinds County, Mississippi; State of Arizona , filed in December2005 in Maricopa County, Arizona; and County of Erie, filed in March2005 in the Supreme Court of New York, County of Erie, New York. Abbott has filed or intends to filea response in each case denying all substantive allegations.
In addition, various state and federal agencies, including the United States Department of Justice and the Florida and Idaho Attorneys General, are investigating Abbott's marketing and pricing practices with respect to certain Medicare and Medicaid reimbursable products. These civil investigations seek to determine whether these practices violated any laws, including the Federal False Claims Act, or constituted fraud in connection with the Medicare and/or Medicaid reimbursement paid to third parties. The Department of Justice is contemplating a civil proceeding against both an unspecified number of other pharmaceutical companies and Abbott in connection with its investigation.
16 Abbott is a defendant in numerous lawsuits involving the drug oxycodone (a drug sold under the trademark OxyContin), which is manufactured by Purdue Pharma. Abbott previously promoted OxyContin under a co-promotion agreement with Purdue Pharma. Most of the lawsuits allege generally that plaintiffs suffered personal injuries as a result of taking OxyContin. A few lawsuits allege consumer protection violations and unfair trade practices. One suit by a third party payor alleges antitrust pricing violations and overpricing of the drug. As of December31, 2005, there are a total of 178 lawsuits pending in which Abbott is a party. Seventeen cases are pending in federal court and 161 cases are pending in state court. 168 cases are brought by individual plaintiffs, and 10 cases are brought as purported class action lawsuits. Purdue Pharma is a defendant in each lawsuit and, pursuant to the co-promotion agreement, Purdue is required to indemnify Abbott in each lawsuit.
Abbott is a defendant in a number of lawsuits involving the drug sibutramine (sold under the trademarks Meridia, Reductil, Reductyl, and Reductal) that have been brought either as purported class actions or on behalf of individual plaintiffs. The lawsuits generally allege design defects and failure to warn. Certain lawsuits also allege consumer protection violations and/or unfair trade practices. The 113 cases captioned In Re Meridia MDL No.1481 were pending in the United States District Court for the Southern District of Ohio. In July2004, the United States District Court for the Northern District of Ohio granted Abbott's motion for summary judgment and dismissed Abbott from those cases. That decision is still on appeal before the Sixth Circuit Federal Court of Appeals. The previously reported case, Leathers, has been transferred to the United States District Court for the Southern District of Ohio. Outside of the United States, one case is pending in Canada ( Mandel, filed in June2002 in the Ontario Superior Court of Justice, Toronto, Canada) and one case is pending in Italy ( Guerrino , filed in September2005 in the Civil Court of Rimini, Italy).
In the mid-1990s, a number of prescription pharmaceutical pricing antitrust suits were brought on behalf of retail pharmacies in federal and state courts as purported class actions. The retail pharmacies allege that pharmaceutical manufacturers, including Abbott, conspired to fix prices for prescription pharmaceuticals and/or to discriminate in pricing to retail pharmacies in violation of state and federal antitrust laws. The cases seek treble damages, civil penalties, and injunctive and other relief. In 1998, Abbott settled all of the claims, with the exception of the claims brought on behalf of a group of retail pharmacies that "opted-out" of the class action settlement. In 2005, Abbott settled with these opt-out plaintiffs for $2.3million to resolve their Sherman Act claims. These plaintiffs' Robinson-Patman claims are pending in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York. The claims of the remaining plaintiffs are not material to Abbott. Abbott will not report on these cases in the future.
Abbott is a defendant in several lawsuits originally filed in the United States District Court for the District of Minnesota and consolidated under the caption In re Canadian Import Antitrust Litigation alleging generally that Abbott and numerous other pharmaceutical manufacturers violated antitrust laws by conspiring to prevent re-importation of drugs from Canada. In August2005, the court dismissed with prejudice plaintiffs' federal law claims and dismissed without prejudice plaintiffs' state law claims. Plaintiffs have filed a notice of appeal.
A case against Takeda Pharmaceutical Company Limited and Takeda America Holdings,Inc. ("Takeda") is pending in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois alleging Takeda breached its fiduciary duty to Abbott in that Takeda is diverting to itself profits that rightly belong jointly to Abbott and Takeda as equal joint venture partners in TAP Pharmaceutical ProductsInc. (owned 50percent by Abbott and 50percent by Takeda). Abbott seeks injunctive relief and compensatory and punitive damages.
Abbott is a defendant in a class action lawsuit pending in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois under the name Myla Nauman, Jane Roller and Michael Loughery v. Abbott Laboratories and Hospira,Inc.
The plaintiffs are former Abbott employees who allege that their transfer to Hospira,Inc., as part of the spin-off of Hospira, adversely affected their employee benefits in violation of 17 the Employee Retirement Income Security Act. Plaintiffs generally seek reinstatement as Abbott employees, or reinstatement as participants in Abbott's employee benefit plans, or an award for the employee benefits they have allegedly lost. Abbott filed a response denying all substantive allegations. On December30, 2005, the court granted plaintiffs' motion for class certification.
While it is not feasible to predict the outcome of such pending claims, proceedings and investigations with certainty, management is of the opinion that their ultimate dispositions should not have a material adverse effect on Abbott's financial position, cash flows, or results of operations.
ITEM 4.SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS None.
18 EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT Executive officers of Abbott are elected annually by the board of directors. All other officers may be elected by the board or appointed by the chairman of the board. All officers are either elected at the first meeting of the board of directors held after the annual shareholder meeting or appointed by the chairman after that board meeting. Each officer holds office until a successor has been duly elected or appointed and qualified or until the officer's death, resignation, or removal. Vacancies may be filled at any time by the board. Any officer may be removed by the board of directors when, in its judgment, removal would serve the best interests of Abbott. Any officer appointed by the chairman of the board may be removed by the chairman whenever, in the chairman's judgment, removal would serve the best interests of Abbott. A vacancy in any office appointed by the chairman of the board may be filled by the chairman.
Current corporate officers, their ages as of February17, 2006, and the dates of their first election as officers of Abbott are listed below. The executive officers' principal occupations and employment from January2001 to February17, 2006 and the current principal occupation of all other officers are also shown. Unless otherwise stated, employment was by Abbott for the period indicated. There are no family relationships between any corporate officers or directors.
Miles D. White*, 50 2001 to present  Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, and Director.
Elected Corporate Officer  1993.
Richard A. Gonzalez*, 52 2001 to present  President and Chief Operating Officer, Medical Products Group, and Director.
2001  Executive Vice President, Medical Products.
Elected Corporate Officer  1995.
Jeffrey M. Leiden*, 50 2001 to present  President and Chief Operating Officer, Pharmaceutical Products Group, and Director.
2001  Executive Vice President, Pharmaceuticals and Chief Scientific Officer, and Director.
Elected Corporate Officer  2000.
Richard W. Ashley*, 62 2004 to present  Executive Vice President, Corporate Development.
2001 to 2003  Senior Director, McKinsey and Company (a management consulting firm).
Elected Corporate Officer  2004.
Thomas C. Freyman*, 51 2004 to present  Executive Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer.
2001 to 2004  Senior Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer.
2001  Vice President, Hospital Products Controller.
Elected Corporate Officer  1991.
19 Joseph M. Nemmers Jr.*, 51 2006 to present  Executive Vice President, Diagnostic and Animal Health Divisions.
2003 to 2006  Senior Vice President, Diagnostic Operations.
2002 to 2003  Vice President, Global Commercial Operations, Diagnostic Products.
2001 to 2002  Vice President, Hospital Products Business Sector.
2001  Divisional Vice President, Acquisition Integration Management, International Division.
2001  Divisional Vice President and Executive Director, Clara Abbott Foundation.
Elected Corporate Officer  2001.
Jeffrey R. Binder*, 42 2006 to present  Senior Vice President, Diagnostic Operations.
2005 to 2006  Vice President and President, Abbott Spine.
2004 to 2005  Vice President and President, Spinal Concepts.
2003 to 2004  President, Spinal Concepts.
2001 to 2003  President and CEO, Spinal Concepts,Inc. (innovator in spinal fixation technology).
Elected Corporate Officer  2004.
William G. Dempsey*, 54 2003 to present  Senior Vice President, Pharmaceutical Operations.
2001 to 2003  Senior Vice President, International Operations.
Elected Corporate Officer  1996.
Edward J. Fiorentino*, 47 2006 to present  Senior Vice President, Diabetes Care Operations.
2004 to 2006  Vice President and President, Abbott Diabetes Care.
2003 to 2004  Vice President and President, MediSense Products.
2001 to 2003  Vice President, MediSense Products.
2001  Vice President, Pharmaceutical Products, Marketing and Sales.
Elected Corporate Officer  1998.
Stephen R. Fussell*, 48 2005 to present  Senior Vice President, Human Resources.
2001 to 2005  Vice President, Compensation and Development.
Elected Corporate Officer  1999.
20 John C. Landgraf*, 53 2004 to present  Senior Vice President, Global Pharmaceutical Manufacturing and Supply.
2003 to 2004  Vice President, Quality Assurance and Compliance, Medical Products Group.
2002 to 2003  Vice President, Operations, Diagnostic Products.
2001 to 2002  Vice President, Corporate Engineering.
Elected Corporate Officer  2000.
Holger Liepmann*, 54 2004 to present  Senior Vice President, International Operations.
2001 to 2004  Vice President, Japan Operations, Abbott International Division.
2001  Divisional Vice President and Regional Director, Europe.
Elected Corporate Officer  2001.
Gary E. McCullough*, 47 2003 to present  Senior Vice President, Ross Products.
2001 to 2003  Senior Vice President  Americas, Wm. Wrigley Jr. Company (a manufacturer and marketer of quality confectionery products, primarily chewing gum).
Elected Corporate Officer  2003.
Laura J. Schumacher * , 42 2005 to present  Senior Vice President, Secretary and General Counsel.
2003 to 2005  Vice President, Secretary and Deputy General Counsel.
2001 to 2003  Divisional Vice President, Litigation.
Elected Corporate Officer  2003.
James L. Tyree*, 52 2005 to present  Senior Vice President, Nutrition International Operations.
2001 to 2005  Vice President, Global Licensing/New Business Development.
2001  Divisional Vice President, Licensing/New Business Development.
Elected Corporate Officer  2001.
Greg E. Arnsdorff, 51 Vice President and President, Point of Care.
Elected Corporate Officer  2005.
Alejandro A. Aruffo, 46 Vice President, Global Pharmaceutical Development, Abbott Bioresearch Center.
Elected Corporate Officer  2004.
21 Catherine V. Babington, 53 Vice President, Public Affairs.
Elected Corporate Officer  1995.
Michael G. Beatrice, 58 Vice President, Corporate Regulatory and Quality Science.
Elected Corporate Officer  1999.
Olivier Bohuon, 47 Vice President, European Operations.
Elected Corporate Officer  2003.
Charles M. Brock, 64 Vice President, Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer.
Elected Corporate Officer  2003.
William E. Brown, III, 51 Vice President, Diagnostic Assays and Systems Development.
Elected Corporate Officer  2002.
Douglas C. Bryant, 48 Vice President, Molecular Global Commercial Operations.
Elected Corporate Officer  1998.
Thomas F. Chen, 56 Vice President, Nutrition International, Asia and Latin America.
Elected Corporate Officer  1998.
Michael J. Collins, 49 Vice President, Medical Products Group Health Systems.
Elected Corporate Officer  2001.
Jaime Contreras, 49 Vice President, Diagnostic Commercial Operations, Europe, Africa and Middle East.
Elected Corporate Officer  2003.
Thomas J. Dee, 42 Vice President, Internal Audit.
Elected Corporate Officer  2002.
22 Robert E. Funck, 44 Vice President and Treasurer.
Elected Corporate Officer  2005.
Robert B. Hance, 46 Vice President and President, Vascular Devices.
Elected Corporate Officer  1999.
Lawrence E. Kraus, 58 Vice President, Manufacturing Global Pharmaceutical Operations.
Elected Corporate Officer  2005.
Zahir Lavji, 52 Vice President, Japan Operations.
Elected Corporate Officer  2004.
Elaine R. Leavenworth, 47 Vice President, Government Affairs.
Elected Corporate Officer  1999.
John M. Leonard, 48 Vice President, Global Medical and Scientific Affairs.
Elected Corporate Officer  1999.
Greg W. Linder*, 49 2001 to present  Vice President and Controller.
2001  Vice President and Treasurer.
Elected Corporate Officer  1999.
Richard J. Marasco, 49 Vice President, Nutrition International, Europe and Canada.
Elected Corporate Officer  2001.
Heather L. Mason, 45 Vice President, International Marketing.
Elected Corporate Officer  2001.
Mark Masterson, 47 Vice President, Pacific, Asia and Africa Operations.
Elected Corporate Officer  2005.
23 P. Loreen Mershimer, 51 Vice President, Pharmaceutical Products, Integrated Healthcare Marketing and Policy.
Elected Corporate Officer  2001.
Edward L. Michael, 49 Vice President and President, Molecular Diagnostics.
Elected Corporate Officer  1997.
Sean E. Murphy, 53 Vice President, Global Licensing/New Business Development.
Elected Corporate Officer  2002.
Daniel W. Norbeck, 47 Vice President, Global Pharmaceutical Discovery.
Elected Corporate Officer  1999.
D. Stafford O'Kelly, 44 Vice President, Latin America and Canada.
Elected Corporate Officer  2004.
Donald V. Patton, Jr., 53 Vice President, Diagnostic Global Commercial Operations.
Elected Corporate Officer  2004.
AJ J. Shoultz, 50 Vice President, Taxes.
Elected Corporate Officer  2003.
Preston T. Simons, 46 Vice President, Information Technology.
Elected Corporate Officer  2005.
Eugene Sun, 46 Vice President, Global Pharmaceutical Clinical Development.
Elected Corporate Officer  2005.
Mary T. Szela, 42 Vice President, Pharmaceutical Products, Primary Care Operations.
Elected Corporate Officer  2001.
24 John B. Thomas, 42 Vice President, Investor Relations.
Elected Corporate Officer  2006.
Susan M. Widner, 49 Vice President, Corporate Marketing.
Elected Corporate Officer  1998.
* Pursuant to Item401(b) of RegulationS-K, Abbott has identified these persons as "executive officers" within the meaning of Item401(b).
25 PART II ITEM 5.MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Principal Market The principal market for Abbott's common shares is the New York Stock Exchange. Shares are also listed on the Chicago Stock Exchange and the Pacific Exchange and are traded on the Boston, Cincinnati, and Philadelphia Exchanges. Outside the United States, Abbott's shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange and the Swiss Stock Exchange.
Market Price Per Share 2005 2004 high low high low First Quarter 48.16 43.34 47.25 39.28 Second Quarter 49.98 45.98 44.67 39.43 Third Quarter 50.00 41.57 43.20 38.26 Fourth Quarter 44.36 37.50 47.63 40.25 Market prices are as reported by the New York Stock Exchange composite transaction reporting system. On April30, 2004, Abbott spun off all of the outstanding common shares of Hospira. For every 10 Abbott common shares held at the close of business on April22, 2004, Abbott shareholders received one common share of Hospira stock on April30, 2004. In the table above, market prices include the value of the Hospira business through the date of the spin-off. Subsequent to the spin-off, the value of Abbott shares no longer includes the value of the Hospira business.
Shareholders There were 82,237 shareholders of record of Abbott common shares as of December31, 2005.
Dividends Quarterly dividends of $.275 per share and $.26 per share were declared on common shares in 2005 and 2004, respectively. In addition, as noted above, a special dividend distribution of shares of Hospira,Inc. occurred in the second quarter of 2004. For every 10 Abbott common shares held at the close of business on April22, 2004, Abbott shareholders received one share of Hospira common stock on April30, 2004.
Abbott Laboratories is an Illinois High Impact Business (HIB) and is located in a federal Foreign Trade Sub-Zone (Sub-Zone22F). Dividends may be eligible for a subtraction from base income for Illinois income tax purposes. If you have questions, please contact your tax advisor.
26 Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Period (a) Total Number of Shares (or Units) Purchased (b) Average Price Paid per Share (or Unit) (c) Total Number of Shares (or Units) Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Plan or Programs (d) Maximum Number (or Approximate Dollar Value) of Shares (or Units) that May Yet Be Purchased Under the Plans or Programs October 1, 2005 October 31, 2005 100,420 1 $ 42.61 0 32,558,000 2 November 1, 2005 November 30, 2005 1,132,311 1 $ 38.742 1,040,000 31,518,000 2 December 1, 2005 December 31, 2005 11,617,053 1 $ 40.062 11,482,444 20,035,556 2 Total 12,849,784 1 $ 39.966 12,522,444 20,035,556 2 1.
These shares represent: (i) the shares surrendered to Abbott to satisfy tax withholding obligations in connection with the vesting of restricted stock 0 in October; 3,453 in November; and 16,083 in December; (ii) the shares deemed surrendered to Abbott to pay the exercise price and to satisfy tax withholding obligations in connection with the exercise of employee stock options 90,420 in October; 78,858 in November; and 76,526 in December; and (iii) the shares purchased on the open market for the benefit of participants in the Abbott Canada Stock Retirement Plan 10,000 in October; 10,000 in November; and 42,000 in December.
2.
On October14, 2004, Abbott announced that Abbott's board of directors approved the purchase of up to 50million of its common shares.
ITEM 6.SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA Year ended December 31 2005 2004 2003 2002 2001 (dollars in millions, except per share data) Net sales (a) $ 22,337.8 $ 19,680.0 $ 17,280.3 $ 15,279.5 $ 13,918.5 Earnings from continuing operations 3,372.1 3,175.8 2,504.7 2,547.0 1,277.7 Net earnings 3,372.1 3,235.9 2,753.2 2,793.7 1,550.4 (b) Basic earnings per common share from continuing operations 2.17 2.03 1.60 1.63 0.82 Basic earnings per common share 2.17 2.07 1.76 1.79 1.00 (b) Diluted earnings per common share from continuing operations 2.16 2.02 1.59 1.62 0.82 Diluted earnings per common share 2.16 2.06 1.75 1.78 0.99 (b) Total assets 29,141.2 28,767.5 26,039.3 23,592.7 22,755.5 Long-term debt 4,571.5 4,787.9 3,452.3 4,274.0 4,335.5 Cash dividends declared per common share 1.10 1.04 0.98 0.94 0.84 (a) Net sales for 2003 and prior years have been adjusted to reflect the presentation of Hospira,Inc. as a discontinued operation.
(b) In 2001, Abbott recorded a pre-tax charge of $1,330 for acquired in-process research and development related to acquisitions of the pharmaceutical business of BASF and of Vysis,Inc.
27 ITEM 7.MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Financial Review Abbott's revenues are derived primarily from the sale of a broad line of health care products under short-term receivable arrangements. Patent protection and licenses, technological and performance features, and inclusion of Abbott's products under a contract or by a pharmacy benefit manager most impact which products are sold; price controls, competition and rebates most impact the net selling prices of products; and foreign currency translation impacts the measurement of net sales. Abbott's primary products are prescription pharmaceuticals, nutritional products and diagnostic testing products. Abbott also owns 50percent of TAP Pharmaceutical ProductsInc. (TAP) that Abbott accounts for on the equity method.
The worldwide launch of HUMIRA , the spin-off of Hospira, integration and restructuring activities and the loss of patent protection for some products have impacted Abbott's sales, costs and financial position over the last three years.
Subsequent to Abbott's 2001 acquisition of the Knoll pharmaceutical business, which significantly increased the scale of Abbott's pharmaceutical business, Abbott focused on reorganizing and growing its global pharmaceutical business. Abbott has established a global research and development organization and a global manufacturing and distribution organization to serve its domestic and international commercial pharmaceutical operations. Pharmaceutical research and development is focused on five therapeutic areas  immunology, oncology, neuroscience, diabetes/metabolism, and viral diseases. U.S. commercial pharmaceutical operations are focused mainly on primary care and specialty pharmaceuticals. In 2003, Abbott began the worldwide launch of HUMIRA , which increased its worldwide sales to $1.4billion in 2005 compared to $852million in 2004. In 2005, Abbott and Boehringer Ingelheim (BI) amended their agreement whereby Abbott distributed and promoted BI products. Effective January1, 2006, Abbott will no longer distribute BI products but will receive residual commissions. Abbott's gross margins for BI products from the prior agreement in effect through December31, 2005 were substantially lower than its average gross margin. 2005 sales of BI products were $2.3billion. Increased generic competition resulted in U.S. sales of Synthroid declining 22percent in 2005 while holding a 36percent market share.
In 2004, Abbott separated its diagnostic segment into four separate divisions  immunoassay/hematology, diabetes care, molecular, and point of care  to better focus on commercial and scientific opportunities. In early 2004, Abbott acquired TheraSense for $1.2billion, and began to integrate it with Abbott's diabetes care business. In late 2003, Abbott was informed by the FDA that it may distribute the immunoassay products in the U.S. that were impacted by regulatory restrictions imposed in 1999. Net sales and profits for this business declined over the restricted period, but stabilized in 2004 and 2005. In 2005, Abbott diagnostics launched more than 50 new products. In the Ross segment in 2003, Abbott settled its portion of an industry-wide investigation of the enteral nutritional business for $614million.
In 2004, Abbott completed the spin-off of Hospira, Abbott's former hospital products business. Annual sales of Hospira were approximately $2.4billion. As part of the spin-off, Hospira assumed $700million of debt. The historical operating and cash flow results of Hospira are presented as discontinued operations. Hospira is contractually obligated to purchase the international hospital assets and operations that were not included in the spin-off. The legal transfer of certain remaining operations and assets (net of liabilities) outside the United States is expected to occur in the first half of 2006.
In early 2006, Abbott reached agreement to acquire Guidant's vascular intervention and endovascular solutions businesses, subject to Boston Scientific's acquisition of Guidant. Guidant's annual revenues from these businesses are approximately $1billion. The purchase price would be $4.1billion, plus contingent milestone payments of $500million.
28 TAP's contribution to Abbott's earnings declined in 2004 and 2003. A part of the decline was due to increased competition for Prevacid , TAP's largest selling product, and due to market contraction for prescription proton pump inhibitors. In 2004, TAP recorded additional litigation reserves of $125million for an anticipated legal settlement.
Abbott's short- and long-term debt totaled $6.6billion at December31, 2005, largely incurred to finance acquisitions. Operating cash flows in excess of capital expenditures and cash dividends have allowed Abbott to reduce debt and fund acquisitions over the last three years. At December31, 2005, Abbott's long-term debt rating was AA by Standard and Poor's and A1 by Moody's Investors Service.
In 2006, Abbott will focus on several key initiatives. In the global pharmaceutical business, Abbott will launch newly approved indications for HUMIRA . Abbott will also focus on appropriate market support for Synthroid , which became subject to generic U.S. competition in mid-2004, and for sevoflurane, which became subject to generic competition in December2005. In 2005, TAP received an approvable letter from the FDA for febuxostat. Contingent upon FDA approval, TAP plans to launch febuxostat in 2006. Pharmaceutical research and development efforts will continue to be focused in the five therapeutic areas noted above with a significant portion of the development expenditures allocated to new HUMIRA indications. Abbott expects to submit additional pharmaceutical regulatory filings in 2006. In the immunoassay business, attention will be focused on improving revenue growth by capitalizing on recent product launches, including the U.S. launch of the blood screening system, PRISM , launching additional products, and commercial execution of the existing broad product portfolio. In the hematology business, attention will be focused on the continued launch of CELL-DYN Sapphire and other analyzers .
For diabetes care, Abbott will continue the launch of FreeStyle Connect and Abbott anticipates the approval of FreeStyle Navigator in 2006. Upon closure of the acquisition of Guidant's vascular business, planning for its integration would be a key activity in the vascular business. Focus in this business will also be on the 2005 launch of Xact Carotid Stent and Emboshield Embolic Protection System and the projected approval of ZoMaxx , Abbott's drug-eluting stent, in Europe. With a greater focus on consumer marketing, Ross will maximize the strength of its core brands and further develop its healthy-living market presence. In the other business segments, Abbott will focus on developing or acquiring differentiated technologies in higher growth segments of those markets.
Critical Accounting Policies Sales Rebates Approximately 40percent of Abbott's consolidated gross revenues are subject to various forms of rebates and allowances that Abbott records as reductions of revenues at the time of sale. Most of these rebates and allowances are in two of Abbott's domestic segments  the Pharmaceutical Products segment and the Ross Products segment. Abbott provides rebates to pharmacy benefit management companies, to state agencies which administer the federal Medicaid program and the Special Supplemental Food Program for Women, Infants, and Children (WIC), wholesalers, group purchasing organizations, and other government agencies and private entities. Rebate amounts are usually based upon the volume of purchases using contractual or statutory prices for a product. Factors used in the rebate calculations include the identification of which products have been sold subject to a rebate, which customer or government agency price terms apply, and the estimated lag time between sale and payment of a rebate. Using historical trends, adjusted for current changes, Abbott estimates the amount of the rebate that will be paid, and records the liability as a reduction of gross sales when Abbott records its sale of the product. Settlement of the rebate generally occurs from two to 24months after sale. Abbott regularly analyzes the historical rebate trends and makes adjustments to reserves for changes in trends and terms of rebate programs. Rebates and chargebacks charged against gross sales in 2005, 2004 and 2003 amounted to approximately $2.5billion, $2.4billion and $1.8billion, respectively, or 22.9percent, 25.6percent, and 22.7percent, respectively, based on gross sales of approximately $10.9billion, $9.3billion and $8.0billion, respectively, subject to rebate. A one-percentage point increase in the percentage of rebates to related gross sales would decrease net sales and operating earnings by approximately $109million in 2005. Other 29 allowances charged against gross sales were approximately $284million, $233million and $191million for cash discounts in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively, and $162million, $163million and $171million for returns in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Cash discounts are known within 15 to 30days of sale, and therefore can be reliably estimated. Returns can be reliably estimated because Abbott's historical returns are low, and because sales returns terms and other sales terms have remained relatively unchanged for several periods.
Management analyzes the adequacy of ending accrual balances each quarter. In the Ross nutritional business, management uses both internal and external data available to estimate the level of inventory in the distribution channel. Management internally estimates the inventory in the retail channel that is not on the retail shelf. A third party continuously measures time on the retail shelf, which is a relatively significant portion of the time inventory is in the distribution channel. Except for a transition period before or after a change in the supplier for the WIC business in a state, inventory in the distribution channel does not vary substantially. Management also estimates the states' processing lag time based on claims data. In addition, internal processing time is a factor in estimating the accrual. In the WIC business, the state where the sale is made, which is the determining factor for the applicable price, is reliably estimable. Estimates are required for the amount of WIC sales within each state where Abbott has the WIC business. External data sources utilized for that estimate are participant data from the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA), which administers the WIC program, participant data from some of the states, and internally administered market surveys. The USDA has been making its data available for many years. Internal data includes historical redemption rates and pricing data. At December31, 2005, Ross had the exclusive WIC business in 11 states.
In the domestic pharmaceutical business, the most significant charges against gross sales are for Medicaid Rebates, Pharmacy Benefit Manager Rebates and Wholesaler Chargebacks. In order to evaluate the adequacy of the ending accrual balances, management uses both internal and external estimates of the level of inventory in the distribution channel and the rebate claims processing lag time. External data sources used to estimate the inventory in the distribution channel include inventory levels periodically reported by wholesalers and third party market data purchased by Abbott. Management estimates the processing lag time based on periodic sampling of claims data. To estimate the price rebate percentage, systems and calculations are used to track sales by product by customer and to estimate the contractual or statutory price. Abbott's systems and calculations have developed over time as rebates have become more significant, and Abbott believes they are reliable.
30 The following table is an analysis of the four largest rebate accruals, which comprise approximately 80percent of the consolidated rebate provisions charged against revenues in 2005. Remaining rebate provisions charged against gross sales are not significant in the determination of operating earnings. ( dollars in thousands ) Pharmaceutical Products Ross Products WIC Rebates Medicaid Rebates Pharmacy Benefit Manager Rebates Wholesaler Chargebacks Balance at January 1, 2003 $ 65,979 $ 196,200 $ 115,539 $ 24,586 Provisions 527,803 358,173 244,037 338,316 Payments (480,420 ) (325,303 ) (214,381 ) (325,809 ) Balance at December 31, 2003 113,362 229,070 145,195 37,093 Provisions 671,817 596,330 279,681 419,486 Payments (687,132 ) (452,342 ) (271,078 ) (412,526 ) Balance at December 31, 2004 98,047 373,058 153,798 44,053 Provisions 641,189 663,043 253,499 450,901 Payments (644,460 ) (581,098 ) (273,166 ) (446,867 ) Balance at December 31, 2005 $ 94,776 $ 455,003 $ 134,131 $ 48,087 Adjustments for prior years' rebate accruals have not been material. Abbott employs various techniques to verify the accuracy of claims submitted to it, and where possible, works with the organizations submitting claims to gain insight into changes that might affect the rebate amounts. For Medicaid and other government agency programs, the calculation of a rebate involves interpretations of relevant regulations, which are subject to challenge or change in interpretation.
Income Taxes Abbott operates in numerous countries where its income tax returns are subject to audits and adjustments. Because Abbott operates globally, the nature of the audit items are often very complex, and the objectives of the government auditors can result in a tax on the same income in more than one country. Abbott employs internal and external tax professionals to minimize audit adjustment amounts where possible. As part of Abbott's calculation of the provision for taxes on earnings, Abbott records the amount that it expects to incur as a result of audits. Each quarter, Abbott reviews its exposures in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No.5, "Accounting for Contingencies." In the U.S., Abbott's federal income tax returns through 2000 are settled, and the income tax returns for years after 2000 are open. Except for taxes on dividends that were remitted under the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, Abbott does not record deferred income taxes on earnings reinvested indefinitely in foreign subsidiaries.
Pension and Post-Employment Benefits Abbott offers pension benefits and post-employment health care to many of its employees. Abbott engages outside actuaries to calculate its obligations and costs under these programs. With the assistance of outside actuaries, Abbott must develop long-term assumptions, the most significant of which are the health care cost trend rate, discount rate and the expected return on plan assets. The discount rate used to measure liabilities as of December31, 2005 was determined based on high-quality fixed income investments that match the duration of the expected retiree benefits. Prior to December31, 2005, the discount rate was determined by reference to a composite corporate AA bond index. The health care cost trend rate represents Abbott's expected annual rates of change in the cost of health care benefits and is a forward projection of health care costs as of the measurement date. A difference between the assumed rates and the actual rates, which will not be known for decades, can be significant in relation to the obligations and the annual cost recorded for these programs. Recent low interest rates have significantly increased unrecognized actuarial losses for these plans. At December31, 31 2005, the unrecognized actuarial losses for Abbott's defined benefit plans and medical and dental plans were $1.5billion and $698million, respectively. Unrecognized actuarial losses and gains are amortized over the remaining service periods of the employees under the corridor method, in accordance with the rules for accounting for post-employment benefits. Differences between the expected long-term return on plan assets and the actual annual return are amortized over a five-year period. Footnote 4 to the consolidated financial statements describes the impact of a one-percentage point change in the health care cost trend rate; however, there can be no certainty that a change would be limited to only one percentage point. In 2005, Abbott reversed previously recorded minimum pension liability adjustments of $562million because the assets of certain defined benefit plans were now in excess of the accumulated benefit obligations due primarily to plan contributions in 2005. This resulted in a credit to Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) of $346million, net of taxes. In 2004 and 2003, Abbott recorded minimum pension liability adjustments of $120million and $155million, respectively, because the accumulated benefit obligations for certain defined benefit plans exceeded the market value of the plans' assets. This resulted in charges to Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) of $76million and $99million, net of taxes, in 2004 and 2003, respectively.
Valuation of Intangible Assets Abbott has acquired and continues to acquire significant intangible assets that Abbott records at fair value. Those assets which do not yet have regulatory approval and for which there are no alternative uses are expensed as acquired in-process research and development, and those that have regulatory approval are capitalized. Transactions involving the purchase or sale of intangible assets occur with some frequency between companies in the health care field, and valuations are usually based on a discounted cash flow analysis using market participant assumptions. Abbott uses a discounted cash flow model to value most of its acquired intangible assets. The discounted cash flow model requires assumptions about the timing and amount of future net cash inflows, risk, the cost of capital, and terminal values. Each of these factors can significantly affect the value of the intangible asset. Abbott engages independent valuation experts who review Abbott's critical assumptions and calculations for significant acquisitions of intangibles. Abbott reviews intangible assets for impairment each quarter using an undiscounted net cash flows approach. If the undiscounted cash flows of an intangible asset are less than the carrying value of an intangible asset, the intangible asset is written down to its fair value, which is usually the discounted cash flow amount. Where cash flows cannot be identified for an individual asset, the review is applied at the lowest group level for which cash flows are identifiable. Goodwill is reviewed for impairment annually or when an event that could result in an impairment of goodwill occurs. At December31, 2005 goodwill and intangibles amounted to $5.2billion and $4.7billion, respectively, and amortization expense for intangible assets amounted to approximately $490million in 2005. There were no impairments of goodwill in 2005, 2004 or 2003.
Litigation Abbott accounts for litigation losses in accordance with SFAS No.5, "Accounting for Contingencies." Under SFAS No.5, loss contingency provisions are recorded for probable losses at management's best estimate of a loss, or when a best estimate cannot be made, a minimum loss contingency amount is recorded. These estimates are often initially developed substantially earlier than the ultimate loss is known, and the estimates are refined each accounting period, as additional information becomes known. Accordingly, Abbott is often initially unable to develop a best estimate of loss, and therefore the minimum amount, which could be zero, is recorded. As information becomes known, either the minimum loss amount is increased, resulting in additional loss provisions, or a best estimate can be made, also resulting in additional loss provisions. Occasionally, a best estimate amount is changed to a lower amount when events result in an expectation of a more favorable outcome than previously expected. For its legal proceedings and environmental exposures, Abbott estimates the range of possible loss to be from approximately $15million to $60million. Reserves of approximately $35million have been recorded at December31, 2005 for these proceedings and exposures. These reserves represent management's best estimate of probable loss, as defined by SFAS No.5.
32 Stock Compensation Through December31, 2005, Abbott measured compensation cost using the intrinsic value-based method of accounting for stock options and replacement stock options granted to employees and disclosed the impact of the fair value method in the footnotes to the consolidated financial statements. In 2006, Abbott will adopt SFAS No.123 (revised 2004), "Share-Based Payment," which requires that fair value be recorded in the results of operations. Since there is no market for trading employee stock options, management must use a fair value method. There is no certainty that the results of a fair value method would be the value at which employee stock options would be traded for cash. Fair value methods require management to make several assumptions, the most significant of which are the selection of a fair value model, stock price volatility and the average life of an option. Abbott began preparing for adoption of the new standard in 2004. Abbott has readily available grant-by-grant historical activity for several years in its option administration system. Using this data, Abbott compared valuation results using the binomial method to the Black-Scholes method Abbott had been using and found the results to be comparable. Abbott evaluated whether certain holders of stock options exercised their options differently than other holders and did not find any differentiating pattern among holders. Abbott studied its implied volatility and concluded that a combination of historical and implied volatility will be a better measure than historical volatility alone. Abbott also quantified the additional paid in capital amount available for use in determining tax effects of early exercise for measurement of tax expense. Abbott will use the modified prospective method of adoption. Under this method, prior years' financial results will not include the impact of recording stock options using fair value. Footnote 10 quantifies the effect of application of fair value to 2005 and prior awards. Based upon the valuation of stock options granted in the 2006 annual grant, which comprise the majority of the grant activity for the year, Abbott estimates the impact of the 2006 change in stock compensation expense on diluted earnings per share of approximately $0.15, which includes $0.14 per diluted share for the impact of expensing the fair value of stock options. The 2006 expense for stock compensation is dependent on the number of options granted in the future, the terms of those awards and their fair value, and therefore, the effect on diluted earnings per share could change.
33 Results of Operations Sales The following table details the components of sales growth by segment for the last three years: Components of Change % Total% Change Price Volume Exchange Total Net Sales 2005 vs. 2004 13.5 0.1 12.1 1.3 2004 vs. 2003 13.9 1.6 9.1 3.2 2003 vs. 2002 13.1 1.3 7.8 4.0 Total U.S.
2005 vs. 2004 13.0 0.8 12.2  2004 vs. 2003 12.8 3.8 9.0  2003 vs. 2002 11.6 1.6 10.0  Total International 2005 vs. 2004 14.2 (0.7 ) 12.0 2.9 2004 vs. 2003 15.3 (1.0 ) 8.9 7.4 2003 vs. 2002 15.1 0.9 5.0 9.2 Pharmaceutical Products Segment 2005 vs. 2004 16.1 1.6 14.5  2004 vs. 2003 15.8 7.2 8.6  2003 vs. 2002 19.5 3.3 16.2  Diagnostic Products Segment 2005 vs. 2004 11.2 (0.7 ) 9.9 2.0 2004 vs. 2003 11.1 (1.2 ) 6.9 5.4 2003 vs. 2002 5.0  (1.8 ) 6.8 Ross Products Segment 2005 vs. 2004 8.5 (0.9 ) 9.4  2004 vs. 2003 8.9 (0.5 ) 9.4  2003 vs. 2002 2.3 (0.9 ) 3.2  International Segment 2005 vs. 2004 13.0 (0.3 ) 10.4 2.9 2004 vs. 2003 15.9 (1.0 ) 9.5 7.4 2003 vs. 2002 13.5 1.4 3.4 8.7 34 A comparison of the product group sales by segment is as follows. Percentage changes are versus the prior year and are based on unrounded numbers.
2005 Percent Change 2004 Percent Change 2003 Percent Change (dollars in millions) Pharmaceutical Products Primary Care $ 4,788 18 $ 4,041 22 $ 3,324 26 Specialty 2,908 18 2,460 28 1,915 23 Diagnostic Products Immunochemistry 2,187 2 2,141 2 2,094 3 Diabetes Care 1,067 35 791 46 542 10 Ross Products Pediatric Nutritionals 1,097 (4 ) 1,146 5 1,093 9 Adult Nutritionals 1,077 15 934 15 809 (3 ) International Other Pharmaceuticals 3,656 15 3,184 21 2,629 15 Anti-Infectives 838 4 804 5 766 10 Hospital Pharmaceuticals 669 13 592 15 516 18 Pediatric Nutritionals 698 17 595 13 527 8 Adult Nutritionals 715 8 663 12 591 12 Sales in the Pharmaceutical Products segment of Mobic, TriCor, Omnicef and Flomax favorably impacted Primary Care Products sales, and increased sales of HUMIRA favorably impacted Specialty Products sales. U.S. sales of Synthroid , which is now subject to generic competition, were $498million, $637million, and $565million in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Increased sales of HUMIRA and Kaletra also favorably impacted Other Pharmaceuticals sales in the International Segment in 2005 and 2004. Worldwide sales of HUMIRA totaled $1.4billion in 2005, $852million in 2004 and $280million in 2003. Diagnostic Products and International segment products sales were favorably impacted in 2005, 2004 and 2003 by the effect of the relatively weaker U.S. dollar. Diabetes Care product sales for the Diagnostic Products segment were favorably impacted by the acquisition of TheraSense in the second quarter of 2004. In addition, Adult Nutritionals product sales for the Ross Products segment were favorably impacted by the acquisitions of ZonePerfect in the third quarter of 2003 and EAS in the fourth quarter of 2004. The decrease in sales for pediatric nutritionals in 2005 was primarily due to overall infant nutritionals non-WIC category decline and competitive share loss. Abbott has periodically sold product rights to non-strategic products and has recorded the related gains in net sales in accordance with Abbott's revenue recognition policies as discussed in footnote 1 to the consolidated financial statements. Related net sales were $177million in 2005, $144million in 2004 and $241million in 2003. Sales of new products in 2005 are estimated to be approximately $1.6billion, led by HUMIRA in the Pharmaceutical Products and International segments and incremental sales of approximately $260million from the 2004 acquisitions of TheraSense and EAS.
The expiration of licenses, patent protection and generic competition can affect the future revenues and operating income of Abbott. Significant ongoing generic activities, and significant patent and license expirations in the next three years are as follows. The U.S. composition of matter patent for Depakote expires in 2008. The Pharmaceutical Products segment's sales of Depakote in 2005 were $1billion. The Pharmaceutical Products segment has an agreement with Boehringer Ingelheim to co-promote and distribute three of its products. In 2005, Abbott and Boehringer Ingelheim amended the agreement. Effective January1, 2006, Abbott no longer distributes or records sales for the Boehringer Ingelheim 35 products, but will continue to co-promote one product, Micardis , through March31, 2006, and will receive residual commissions on Boehringer Ingelheim's sales of the three products. The amount of pretax income under the amended agreement will be the same as expected under the previous agreement. Net sales of Boehringer Ingelheim products in 2005 were approximately $2.3billion. In the second quarter 2004, the FDA granted approval for generic competition to Synthroid and generic competitors have entered the market. In 2004 and 2005, clarithromycin became subject to generic competition in several European markets. International segment sales of clarithromycin in 2005 were $760million. In the U.S., the Pharmaceutical Products segment markets clarithromycin in two forms, the immediate release and the extended release forms, both of which are covered by additional non-composition of matter patents. In May2005, the composition of matter patent on clarithromycin in the U.S. expired, and several immediate release generic products were launched by competitors. Manufacturers of the extended release forms of clarithromycin were enjoined from entering the U.S. market due to Abbott's non-composition of matter patents. U.S. sales of clarithromycin in 2005 and 2004 were $306million and $458million, respectively. There may be further generic competition for clarithromycin in the U.S. and other countries in 2006 depending on the results of legal proceedings related to the patents. Upon the December2005 expiration of a court order related to licenses for sevoflurane, Baxter is now permitted to market a competitive form of sevoflurane. In addition, sevoflurane has been subject to generic competition from other competitors in isolated markets outside of the U.S. and further generic competition in international markets is possible. Worldwide sales of sevoflurane in 2005 were $874million. The composition of matter patent for Omnicef expires in May2007. Abbott holds an additional non-composition of matter patent that expires in 2011. The Pharmaceutical Products segment sales of Omnicef in 2005 were $495million. In mid 2006, the Ross segment's co-promotion agreement for Synagis will terminate. U.S. co-promotion revenues were $231million in 2005. Abbott will continue to market Synagis, and will market its follow-on product, Numax, in select international markets and will receive residual commissions on U.S. sales of Synagis .
Operating Earnings Gross profit margins were 52.4percent of net sales in 2005, 54.9percent in 2004 and 55.0percent in 2003. The decrease in the gross profit margin in 2005 was due to unfavorable product mix, primarily as a result of increased sales of Boehringer Ingelheim products that have lower margins than other products in the Pharmaceutical Products segment. Restructuring charges, discussed below, reduced the gross profit margin in 2005 by 0.8percentage points. The gross profit margin in 2004 was impacted by the favorable mix effect of exchange on the gross profit margin and by unfavorable product mix, primarily increased sales of lower margin Boehringer Ingelheim products, as discussed above, in the Pharmaceutical Products segment. The gross profit margin for 2003 was impacted by a charge of $88million for an impairment of assets and other expenses as a result of a lower sales forecast for Abbokinase ; partially offset by favorable product mix, resulting mainly from increased sales in the Pharmaceutical Products segment. Gross profit margins in all years were also affected by productivity improvements, higher project expenses for new products, higher manufacturing capacity costs for anticipated unit growth, and the effects of inflation and competitive pricing pressures.
In the U.S., states receive price rebates from manufacturers of infant formula under the federally subsidized Special Supplemental Food Program for Women, Infants, and Children. There are also rebate programs for pharmaceutical products. These rebate programs continue to have a negative effect on the gross profit margins of the Ross and Pharmaceutical Products segments. In addition, pricing pressures unfavorably impacted the gross profit margins for the Ross Products segment in 2005, 2004 and 2003.
The gross profit margins for the Pharmaceutical Products segment were unfavorably impacted in 2005 and 2004 by unfavorable product mix and favorably impacted in 2003 by favorable product mix. The unfavorable product mix in 2005 and 2004 was due primarily to increased sales of lower margin Boehringer Ingelheim products and higher other manufacturing costs. The gross profit margin in 2003 for the Diagnostic Products segment was impacted by the effects of a FDA consent decree.
36 Research and development expense, excluding acquired in-process research and development, was $1.8billion in 2005, $1.7billion in 2004 and $1.6billion in 2003 and represented increases of 7.3percent in 2005, 4.5percent in 2004 and 10.1percent in 2003. The majority of research and development expenditures are concentrated on pharmaceutical products.
Selling, general and administrative expenses increased 11.7percent in 2005 compared to increases of 2.4percent in 2004 and 29.1percent in 2003. The restructuring charges discussed below and an increase in a bad debt reserve associated with an unfavorable court ruling increased the percent change from 2004 by 2.7percentage points in 2005. In 2003, Abbott recorded in selling, general and administrative expenses, a pretax charge of $614million related to the settlement of the Ross enteral nutritional investigation. This 2003 charge reduced the increase in selling, general and administrative expenses by 15.0percentage points for 2004 and increased selling, general and administrative expenses by 16.5percentage points over 2002. The increases in selling, general and administrative expenses, excluding the restructuring charges and the charge for the investigation, were due primarily to increased selling and marketing support for new and existing products, including commercial activities related to sales force expansion and product launches, including Abbott's carotid stent and new HUMIRA indications. These increases also reflect the effects of the acquisitions of TheraSense and EAS in 2004. Increases in all three years also reflect inflation and additional selling and marketing support primarily in the Pharmaceutical Products and International segments.
Restructurings (dollars in millions) In 2005, Abbott management approved plans to realign its global manufacturing operations and selected domestic and international commercial operations. In 2005, Abbott recorded pretax charges against earnings of approximately $256 reflecting the impairment of manufacturing facilities and other assets, employee severance and other related charges. Approximately $174 is classified as cost of products sold, $10 as research and development and $72 as selling, general and administrative. An additional $14 was subsequently recorded in 2005 relating to these restructurings, primarily for accelerated depreciation. As a result of product re-registration timelines required under manufacturing regulations in a number of countries, manufacturing related realignments are expected to continue into 2007.
The following summarizes the restructuring activity for the global pharmaceutical manufacturing operations restructuring: Employee- Related and Other Asset Impairments Total 2005 restructuring charges $ 44.1 $ 52.7 $ 96.8 Payments and impairments (0.3 ) (52.7 ) (53.0 ) Accrued balance at December 31, 2005 $ 43.8 $  $ 43.8 The following summarizes the restructuring activity for all other restructurings, which are individually not material: Employee- Related and Other Asset Impairments Total 2005 restructuring charges $ 147.6 $ 11.1 $ 158.7 Payments and impairments (36.6 ) (11.1 ) (47.7 ) Accrued balance at December 31, 2005 $ 111.0 $  $ 111.0 37 Abbott expects to incur up to an additional $150 in future periods for restructuring plans, primarily for accelerated depreciation and plant and equipment dispositions.
(Income) from TAP Pharmaceutical ProductsInc. Joint Venture Abbott's income from the TAP Pharmaceutical ProductsInc. joint venture was lower in 2005 and 2004 compared to 2003 due to decreased sales due to market contraction for prescription proton pump inhibitors, and in 2004 by approximately $40million as a result of an agreement with plaintiffs to settle litigation.
Net Interest Expense Net interest expense increased in 2005 and 2004 due to the impact of higher interest rates on debt levels, partially offset by higher interest income. Net interest expense decreased in 2003 due to a lower level of borrowings and lower interest rates.
Taxes on Earnings The effective income tax rates on income from continuing operations were 27.0percent in 2005, 23.0percent in 2004 and 26.1percent in 2003. In 2005, Abbott remitted $4.3billion of foreign earnings in accordance with the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 and recorded additional tax expense of $245million, which increased the effective tax rate by approximately 5.3percentage points. This was partially offset by adjustments of prior years' tax accounts resulting primarily from resolution of prior years' accrual requirements, which decreased the effective tax rate by 2.3percentage points. The effective tax rate for 2004 reflects adjustments of prior years' tax requirements primarily as a result of resolutions of prior years' tax audits and the effect of non-deductible acquired in-process research and development. The effect of these items for 2004 was to decrease the effective tax rate by approximately 1.2percentage points. The effective tax rate for 2003 includes the effect of the charge for the settlement of the Ross enteral nutritional investigation and the charges for acquired in-process research and development. The effect of these charges for 2003 was to increase the effective tax rate by approximately 2.4percentage points. Abbott expects to apply an annual effective rate of between 23.5percent and 24.0percent in 2006.
Spin-off of Abbott's Core Hospital Products Business On April12, 2004, Abbott's Board of Directors declared a special dividend distribution of all of the outstanding shares of common stock of Hospira,Inc., payable on April30, 2004. Hospira included the operations relating to the manufacture and sale of hospital products including specialty injectable pharmaceuticals, medication delivery systems and critical care devices and injectable pharmaceutical contract manufacturing. Hospira included Abbott's Hospital Products segment, after that segment's reorganization on January1, 2004, and portions of Abbott's International segment. The income and cash flows of Hospira and the direct transaction costs of the spin-off have been presented as discontinued operations in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings and Statement of Cash Flows. Prior years' balance sheets have not been adjusted to reflect the effect of the spin-off.
The legal transfer of certain remaining operations and assets (net of liabilities) outside the United States is expected to occur in the first half of 2006. These operations and assets are used in the conduct of Hospira's international business and Hospira is subject to the risks and entitled to the benefits generated by these operations and assets. These assets and liabilities have been presented as held for sale in the Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December31, 2005 and 2004. The assets and liabilities held for sale consist primarily of inventories, trade accounts receivable, equipment and trade accounts payable, salaries and other accruals.
Abbott has retained liabilities for taxes on income prior to the spin-off, defined benefit, post-employment medical and dental plan obligations and assets, as of the spin-off, for most of Hospira's 38 U.S. retired employees and U.S. retirement eligible employees and certain potential liabilities, if any, related to alleged improper pricing practices prior to the spin-off in connection with federal, state and private reimbursement for certain drugs.
Business Combinations and Technology Acquisitions In 2005, Abbott acquired the remaining interest in a small medical products company that was previously accounted for under the equity method of accounting and a less than 50percent equity interest in a small medical products company. The aggregate cash purchase price was approximately $25million. Acquisition accounting resulted in the recording of non-tax deductible goodwill of approximately $69million, intangible assets of approximately $22million and a charge of approximately $17million for acquired in-process research and development. In 2005, Abbott acquired additional rights related to HUMIRA for approximately $270million, which will be amortized over 13years.
In 2004, Abbott paid approximately $2.3billion for strategic business and technology acquisitions, as follows. Abbott acquired TheraSense,Inc., a leader in the development, manufacturing and marketing of blood glucose self-monitoring systems, for approximately $1.2billion in cash; i-STAT Corporation, a manufacturer of point-of-care diagnostic products for blood analysis, for approximately $394million in cash; EAS, a nutritional company with a portfolio of nationally recognized brands, for approximately $320million in cash; and Spine Next, a manufacturer of orthopedic spinal implant devices, for approximately $58million in cash plus additional milestone payments of up to $23million upon achievement of future targets. Abbott also acquired certain other product technologies for approximately $352million. These acquisitions resulted in a charge of $271million for acquired in-process research and development, intangible assets of approximately $1.3billion, non-tax deductible goodwill of approximately $923million and deferred income taxes of approximately $406million. Acquired intangible assets, primarily trade names, are amortized over 5 to 20years (average of approximately 14years).
In 2003, Abbott paid approximately $459million for strategic business and technology acquisitions, as follows. Abbott acquired ZonePerfect Nutrition Company, a marketer of healthy and nutritious products for active people, for approximately $160million in cash; Integrated Vascular Systems,Inc., a developer of a novel vessel closure technology, for approximately $65million in cash; and Spinal ConceptsInc., a marketer of spinal fixation products used in the treatment of spinal disorders, diseases and injuries, for approximately $166million in cash plus additional milestone payments of up to $40million if agreed upon targets are met. Abbott also acquired the assets of JOMED N.V.'s coronary and peripheral interventional business for approximately $68million in cash. These acquisitions resulted in a charge of approximately $100million for acquired in-process research and development, intangible assets of approximately $222million and non-tax deductible goodwill of approximately $182million. Acquired intangible assets, primarily product technology, are amortized over 9 to 25years (average of approximately 16years).
Had the above acquisitions taken place on January1 of the previous year, consolidated sales and income would not have been significantly different from reported amounts.
In early 2006, Abbott agreed to acquire Guidant's interventional vascular and endovascular solutions businesses for $4.1billion in connection with Boston Scientific's acquisition of Guidant. Abbott would also pay $250million each upon government approvals to market Guidant's drug-eluting stent in the U.S. and in Japan. In addition, Abbott agreed to provide Boston Scientific a $900million 4percent loan and to acquire $1.4billion of Boston Scientific common stock directly from Boston Scientific contingent upon the closing of the Guidant acquisition. The acquisition is expected to be completed in the first half of 2006.
39 Financial Condition Cash Flow Net cash from operating activities of continuing operations amounted to $5.0billion, $4.3billion and $3.4billion in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. In 2005, 2004 and 2003, $641million, $482million and $200million, respectively, was contributed to the main domestic defined benefit plan. In addition, Abbott transferred approximately $45million to Hospira in 2004 in accordance with the employee benefit agreement governing the assumption by Hospira of certain defined benefit plan assets and liabilities. Abbott expects pension funding for its main domestic pension plan in 2006 to 2011 to be between $200million and $400million annually. The increased contribution in 2005 was due, in part, to the investment of cash remitted under the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004.
Debt and Capital At December31, 2005, Abbott's long-term debt rating was AA by Standard and Poor's and A1 by Moody's Investors Service. Abbott has readily available financial resources, including unused lines of credit of $3.0billion, which support domestic commercial paper borrowing arrangements. Subsequent to the announced potential acquisition of Guidant's vascular intervention and endovascular solutions businesses, Standard and Poor's affirmed their current debt ratings for Abbott and maintained their current "stable" outlook. Moody's Investors Service indicated they would likely affirm their current debt ratings for Abbott and would likely change their current outlook from "stable" to "negative." In October2004, the Board of Directors authorized the purchase of 50million shares of Abbott's common stock from time to time and no shares were purchased under this authorization in 2004. In 2005, Abbott purchased approximately 30million of its common shares under this authorization at a cost of approximately $1.3billion. In 2004 and 2003, Abbott purchased approximately 11.7million and 2.7million, respectively, of its common shares at a cost of approximately $500million and $98million, respectively, under a prior authorization.
In 2005, Abbott borrowed $1.9billion of long-term debt that matures in May2008 with variable interest rates above LIBOR. Proceeds from this debt were invested in short-term investments. Abbott issued $1.5billion of long-term debt in 2004 that matures in 2009 through 2014 with interest rates ranging from 3.5percent to 4.35percent. Proceeds from this debt were used to fund the acquisition of TheraSense and to pay down domestic commercial paper borrowings.
Abbott retained $700million of proceeds from borrowings that Hospira assumed as a result of the spin-off and used these proceeds to reduce domestic commercial paper borrowings. In addition, Abbott retired long-term debt of $1.65billion in 2004 with proceeds from domestic commercial paper borrowings.
Working Capital Working capital was $4.0billion at December31, 2005, $3.9billion at December31, 2004 and $2.7billion at December31, 2003.
Capital Expenditures Capital expenditures of $1.2billion in 2005, $1.3billion in 2004 and $1.1billion in 2003 were principally for upgrading and expanding manufacturing, research and development, investments in information technology and administrative support facilities in all segments, and for laboratory instruments placed with customers.
40 Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes Abbott's estimated contractual obligations as of December31, 2005.
Payment Due By Period Total 2006 2007-2008 2009-2010 2011 and Thereafter (dollars in millions) Long-term debt, including current maturities and future interest payments $ 7,237 $ 2,080 $ 3,036 $ 730 $ 1,391 Operating lease obligations 348 86 119 57 86 Capitalized auto lease obligations 106 35 71   Purchase commitments (a) 1,454 1,311 99 32 12 Other long-term liabilities reflected on the consolidated balance sheet Benefit plan obligations 1,275  208 217 850 Other 1,305  393 208 704 Total $ 11,725 $ 3,512 $ 3,926 $ 1,244 $ 3,043 (a) Purchase commitments are for purchases made in the normal course of business to meet operational and capital expenditure requirements.
Contingent Obligations Abbott has periodically entered into agreements in the ordinary course of business, such as assignment of product rights, with other companies which has resulted in Abbott becoming secondarily liable for obligations that Abbott was previously primarily liable. Since Abbott no longer maintains a business relationship with the other parties, Abbott is unable to develop an estimate of the maximum potential amount of future payments, if any, under these obligations. Based upon past experience, the likelihood of payments under these agreements is remote. In addition, Abbott periodically acquires small companies in which Abbott agrees to pay contingent consideration based on attaining certain thresholds.
As previously noted, in connection with the potential acquisition of certain Guidant businesses, Abbott has agreed to acquire up to $6.9billion of assets, comprised of $4.1billion for the businesses, up to $500million in milestone payments, a $900million loan to Boston Scientific, and $1.4billion of Boston Scientific common stock.
In connection with the spin-off of Hospira, Abbott has retained liabilities for taxes on income prior to the spin-off and certain potential liabilities, if any, related to alleged improper pricing practices in connection with federal, state and private reimbursement for certain drugs.
Recently Issued Accounting Standards In 2006, Abbott must adopt Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No.123 (revised 2004), "Share-Based Payment," which requires that the fair value of stock options granted to employees be recorded in the results of operations. Abbott will use the modified prospective method of adoption. Under this method, prior years' financial results will not include the impact of recording stock options using fair value. Footnote 10 quantifies the effect of application of fair value to 2005 and prior awards. Based upon the valuation of stock options granted in the 2006 annual grant, which comprise the majority of the grant activity for the year, Abbott estimates the impact of the 2006 change in stock compensation expense on diluted earnings per share of approximately $0.15, which includes $0.14 per diluted share for the impact of expensing the fair value of stock options. The 2006 expense for stock compensation is dependent on the number of options granted in the future, the terms of those awards and their fair value, and therefore, the effect on diluted earnings per share could change.
41 In May2005, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued SFAS No.154, "Accounting Changes and Error Corrections." This statement generally requires retrospective application to prior periods' financial statements of voluntary changes in accounting principles. Under the prior rules, changes in accounting principles were generally recognized by including in net income of the period of the change the cumulative effect of changing to the new accounting principle. This statement does not change the previous requirements for reporting the correction of an error in previously issued financial statements, change in accounting estimate or justification of a change in accounting principle on the basis of preferability. This statement is effective for accounting changes made in fiscal years beginning after December15, 2005. Adoption of the provisions of the statement is not expected to have a material effect on the results of operations or financial position of Abbott.
In November2004, the FASB issued SFAS No.151, "Inventory Costs." This statement clarifies the accounting for the abnormal amount of idle facilities expense, freight, handling costs and wasted material. This statement requires that those items be recognized as current-period expense. In addition the statement requires that allocation of fixed overhead to the cost of conversion be based on the normal capacity of the production facilities. This statement is effective for inventory costs incurred after December31, 2005. Adoption of this statement will not have a material effect on the financial statements of Abbott.
Legislative Issues Abbott's primary markets are highly competitive and subject to substantial government regulation. Abbott expects debate to continue in the U.S. at both the federal and the state levels over the availability, method of delivery, and payment for health care products and services. Abbott believes that if further legislation is enacted, it could have the effect of reducing access to health care products and services, or reducing prices or the rate of price increases for health care products and services. International operations are also subject to a significant degree of government regulation. It is not possible to predict the extent to which Abbott or the health care industry in general might be adversely affected by these factors in the future. A more complete discussion of these factors is contained in Item1, Business, and Item1A, Risk Factors on Form10-K.
Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 A Caution Concerning Forward-Looking Statements Under the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Abbott cautions investors that any forward-looking statements or projections made by Abbott, including those made in this document, are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those projected. Economic, competitive, governmental, technological and other factors that may affect Abbott's operations are discussed in Exhibit99.1 to the Annual Report on Form10-K.
42 ITEM 7A.QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Financial Instruments and Risk Management Interest Rate Sensitive Financial Instruments At December31, 2005 and 2004, Abbott had interest rate hedge contracts totaling $3.1billion to manage its exposure to changes in the fair value of debt due July2006 through March2014. The effect of these hedges is to change the fixed interest rate to a variable rate. Abbott does not use derivative financial instruments, such as interest rate swaps, to manage its exposure to changes in interest rates for its investment securities. As of December31, 2004, Abbott had $1.6billion of domestic commercial paper outstanding with an average annual interest rate of 2.2% with an average remaining life of 38days. The fair market value of long-term debt at December31, 2005 and 2004 amounted to $6.4billion and $5.0billion, respectively (average interest rates of 4.2% and 4.3%, respectively) with maturities through 2023. As of December31, 2005 and 2004, the fair market value of current and long-term investment securities amounted to $80million and $854million, respectively. A hypothetical 100-basis point change in the interest rates would not have a material effect on cash flows, income or market values. (A 100-basis point change is believed to be a reasonably possible near-term change in rates.) Market Price Sensitive Financial Instruments Abbott maintains a portfolio of available-for-sale equity securities from strategic technology acquisitions. The market value of these investments was approximately $99million and $96million, respectively, as of December31, 2005 and 2004. Abbott monitors these investments for other than temporary declines in market value, and charges impairment losses to income when an other than temporary decline in value occurs. A hypothetical 20percent decrease in the share prices of these investments would decrease their fair value at December31, 2005 by approximately $20million. (A 20percent decrease is believed to be a reasonably possible near-term change in share prices.) Non-Publicly Traded Equity Securities Abbott maintains a portfolio of equity securities from strategic technology acquisitions that are not traded on public stock exchanges. The carrying value of these investments was approximately $17million and $30million, respectively, as of December31, 2005 and 2004. No individual investment is in excess of $9million. Abbott monitors these investments for other than temporary declines in market value, and charges impairment losses to income when an other than temporary decline in estimated value occurs.
Foreign Currency Sensitive Financial Instruments Abbott enters into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to manage its exposure to foreign currency denominated intercompany loans and trade payables and third-party trade payables and receivables. The contracts are marked-to-market, and resulting gains or losses are reflected in income and are generally offset by losses or gains on the foreign currency exposure being managed. At December31, 2005 and 2004, Abbott held $3.9billion and $3.3billion, respectively, of such contracts, which all mature in the following calendar year.
In addition, certain Abbott foreign subsidiaries enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to manage exposures to changes in foreign exchange rates for anticipated intercompany purchases by those subsidiaries whose functional currencies are not the U.S. dollar. These contracts are designated as cash flow hedges of the variability of the cash flows due to changes in foreign exchange rates and are marked-to-market with the resulting gains or losses reflected in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). Gains or losses will be included in Cost of products sold at the time the products are sold, generally within the next calendar year. At December31, 2005 and 2004, Abbott held $222million and $984million, respectively, of such contracts, which all mature in the following calendar year.
43 The following table reflects the total foreign currency forward contracts outstanding at December31, 2005 and 2004: 2005 2004 Contract Amount Average Exchange Rate Fair and Carrying Value Receivable/ (Payable) Contract Amount Average Exchange Rate Fair and Carrying Value Receivable/ (Payable) (dollars in millions) Receive primarily U.S. Dollars in exchange for the following currencies: Euro $ 1,519 1.184 $ (1.4 ) $ 1,688 1.284 $ (39.1 ) British Pound 1,148 1.738 7.2 1,112 1.845 (26.7 ) Japanese Yen 513 113.4 (18.4 ) 533 107.3 9.2 Canadian Dollar 425 1.176 (2.1 ) 301 1.274 (20.0 ) All other currencies 487 N/A  601 N/A (3.3 ) Total $ 4,092 $ (14.7 ) $ 4,235 $ (79.9 ) 44 ITEM 8.FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA Page Abbott Laboratories Financial Statements: Consolidated Statement of Earnings 46 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 47 Consolidated Balance Sheet 48 Consolidated Statement of Shareholders' Investment 50 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 51 Management Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting 73 Reports of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 74 TAP Pharmaceutical Products Inc. Financial Statements: Consolidated Statements of Income and Comprehensive Income 76 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 77 Consolidated Balance Sheets 78 Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity 79 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 80 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 88 45 Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries Consolidated Statement of Earnings (dollars and shares in thousands except per share data) Year Ended December31 2005 2004 2003 Net Sales $ 22,337,808 $ 19,680,016 $ 17,280,333 Cost of products sold 10,641,111 8,884,157 7,774,239 Research and development 1,821,175 1,696,753 1,623,752 Acquired in-process research and development 17,131 279,006 100,240 Selling, general and administrative 5,496,123 4,921,780 4,808,090 Total Operating Cost and Expenses 17,975,540 15,781,696 14,306,321 Operating Earnings 4,362,268 3,898,320 2,974,012 Net interest expense 153,662 149,087 146,365 (Income) from TAP Pharmaceutical Products Inc. joint venture (441,388 ) (374,984 ) (580,950 ) Net foreign exchange (gain) loss 21,804 29,059 57,048 Other (income) expense, net 8,270 (30,442 ) (35,602 ) Earnings from Continuing Operations Before Taxes 4,619,920 4,125,600 3,387,151 Taxes on Earnings from Continuing Operations 1,247,855 949,764 882,426 Earnings from Continuing Operations 3,372,065 3,175,836 2,504,725 Earnings from Discontinued Operations, net of taxes  60,015 248,508 Net Earnings $ 3,372,065 $ 3,235,851 $ 2,753,233 Basic Earnings Per Common Share Continuing Operations $ 2.17 $ 2.03 $ 1.60 Discontinued Operations  0.04 0.16 Net Earnings $ 2.17 $ 2.07 $ 1.76 Diluted Earnings Per Common Share Continuing Operations $ 2.16 $ 2.02 $ 1.59 Discontinued Operations  0.04 0.16 Net Earnings $ 2.16 $ 2.06 $ 1.75 Average Number of Common Shares Outstanding Used for Basic Earnings Per Common Share 1,552,457 1,560,557 1,562,815 Dilutive Common Stock Options 11,646 10,054 9,054 Average Number of Common Shares Outstanding Plus Dilutive Common Stock Options 1,564,103 1,570,611 1,571,869 Outstanding Common Stock Options Having No Dilutive Effect 22,469 44,005 57,706 The accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements are an integral part of this statement.
46 Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows (dollars in thousands) Year Ended December31 2005 2004 2003 Cash Flow From (Used in) Operating Activities of Continuing Operations: Net earnings $ 3,372,065 $ 3,235,851 $ 2,753,233 Less: Earnings from discontinued operations, net of taxes  60,015 248,508 Earnings from continuing operations 3,372,065 3,175,836 2,504,725 Adjustments to reconcile earnings from continuing operations to net cash from operating activities of continuing operations Depreciation 868,808 840,591 769,403 Amortization of intangibles 490,131 448,109 358,036 Acquired in-process research and development 17,131 279,006 100,240 Investing and financing (gains) losses, net 125,328 47,400 76,755 Trade receivables (98,216 ) (588,575 ) (121,702 ) Inventories (88,257 ) (285,328 ) 101,360 Prepaid expenses and other assets (406,858 ) (431,436 ) (333,858 ) Trade accounts payable and other liabilities 199,703 602,605 (131,809 ) Income taxes 567,569 217,815 62,084 Net Cash From Operating Activities of Continuing Operations 5,047,404 4,306,023 3,385,234 Cash Flow From (Used in) Investing Activities of Continuing Operations: Acquisitions of businesses and technologies, net of cash acquired (295,123 ) (2,327,821 ) (497,914 ) Acquisitions of property and equipment (1,207,493 ) (1,291,633 ) (1,050,058 ) Purchases of investment securities (15,670 ) (543,292 ) (289,432 ) Proceeds from sales of investment securities 783,599 224,923 333,757 Other 14,600 14,433 66,465 Net Cash (Used in) Investing Activities of Continuing Operations (720,087 ) (3,923,390 ) (1,437,182 ) Cash Flow From (Used in) Financing Activities of Continuing Operations: Proceeds from (repayments of) commercial paper, net (1,619,000 ) 813,000 (814,000 ) Proceeds from issuance of long-term debt 1,851,013 1,500,000 688,643 Repayment of long-term debt (150,000 ) (1,650,000 )  Other borrowing transactions, net 90,820 142,998 (342,570 ) Purchases of common shares (1,302,314 ) (499,745 ) (97,617 ) Proceeds from stock options exercised 223,637 155,197 75,035 Dividends paid (1,686,472 ) (1,599,770 ) (1,515,703 ) Net Cash (Used in) Financing Activities of Continuing Operations (2,592,316 ) (1,138,320 ) (2,006,212 ) Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (193,954 ) 184,271 180,971 Discontinued Operations: Net cash provided by operating activities of discontinued operations 127,012 161,008 361,286 Investing activities of discontinued operations  (59,088 ) (193,423 ) Financing activities of discontinued operations  700,000  Net cash provided by discontinued operations 127,012 801,920 167,863 Net Increase in Cash and Cash Equivalents 1,668,059 230,504 290,674 Cash and Cash Equivalents, Beginning of Year 1,225,628 995,124 704,450 Cash and Cash Equivalents, End of Year $ 2,893,687 $ 1,225,628 $ 995,124 The accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements are an integral part of this statement.
47 Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries Consolidated Balance Sheet (dollars in thousands) December 31 2005 2004 2003 Assets Current Assets: Cash and cash equivalents $ 2,893,687 $ 1,225,628 $ 995,124 Investment securities, primarily time deposits and certificates of deposit 62,406 833,334 291,297 Trade receivables, less allowances of  2005: $203,683; 2004: $231,704; 2003: $259,514 3,576,794 3,696,115 3,313,377 Inventories Finished products 1,203,557 1,488,939 1,467,441 Work in process 630,267 582,787 545,977 Materials 708,155 548,737 725,021 Total inventories 2,541,979 2,620,463 2,738,439 Deferred income taxes 1,248,569 1,031,746 1,165,259 Other prepaid expenses and receivables 932,691 1,080,143 1,110,885 Assets held for sale 129,902 247,056  Total Current Assets 11,386,028 10,734,485 9,614,381 Investment Securities, primarily equity securities 134,013 145,849 406,357 Property and Equipment, at Cost: Land 370,949 338,428 356,757 Buildings 2,655,356 2,519,492 2,662,023 Equipment 8,813,517 8,681,655 9,479,044 Construction in progress 920,599 962,114 792,923 12,760,421 12,501,689 13,290,747 Less: accumulated depreciation and amortization 6,757,280 6,493,815 7,008,941 Net Property and Equipment 6,003,141 6,007,874 6,281,806 Intangible Assets, net of amortization 4,741,647 5,171,594 4,089,882 Goodwill 5,219,247 5,685,124 4,449,408 Other Long-term Assets and Investments in Joint Ventures 1,624,201 952,929 1,197,474 Assets Held for Sale 32,926 69,639  $ 29,141,203 $ 28,767,494 $ 26,039,308 48 December 31 2005 2004 2003 Liabilities and Shareholders' Investment Current Liabilities: Short-term borrowings $ 212,447 $ 1,836,649 $ 828,092 Trade accounts payable 1,032,516 1,054,464 1,078,333 Salaries, wages and commissions 625,254 637,333 625,525 Other accrued liabilities 2,722,685 2,491,956 2,180,098 Dividends payable 423,335 405,730 383,352 Income taxes payable 488,926 156,417 158,836 Current portion of long-term debt 1,849,563 156,034 1,709,265 Liabilities of operations held for sale 60,788 87,061  Total Current Liabilities 7,415,514 6,825,644 6,963,501 Long-term Debt 4,571,504 4,787,934 3,452,329 Post-employment Obligations and Other Long-term Liabilities 2,154,775 2,606,410 2,551,220 Liabilities of Operations Held for Sale 1,062 1,644  Deferred Income Taxes 583,077 220,079  Commitments and Contingencies Shareholders' Investment: Preferred shares, one dollar par value Authorized  1,000,000 shares, none issued    Common shares, without par value Authorized  2,400,000,000 shares Issued at stated capital amount Shares: 2005: 1,553,769,958; 2004: 1,575,147,418; 2003: 1,580,247,227 3,523,766 3,239,575 3,034,054 Common shares held in treasury, at cost Shares: 2005: 14,534,979; 2004: 15,123,800; 2003: 15,729,296 (212,255 ) (220,854 ) (229,696 ) Unearned compensation  restricted stock awards (46,306 ) (50,110 ) (56,336 ) Earnings employed in the business 10,404,568 10,033,440 9,691,484 Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) 745,498 1,323,732 632,752 Total Shareholders' Investment 14,415,271 14,325,783 13,072,258 $ 29,141,203 $ 28,767,494 $ 26,039,308 The accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements are an integral part of this statement.
49 Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries Consolidated Statement of Shareholders' Investment (dollars in thousands except per share data) Year Ended December31 2005 2004 2003 Common Shares: Beginning of Year Shares: 2005: 1,575,147,418; 2004: 1,580,247,227; 2003: 1,578,944,551 $ 3,239,575 $ 3,034,054 $ 2,891,266 Issued under incentive stock programs Shares: 2005: 8,752,085; 2004: 6,811,550; 2003: 4,186,710 299,329 208,880 118,119 Tax benefit from option shares and vesting of restricted stock awards (no share effect) 52,363 22,871 29,980 Retired  Shares: 2005: 30,129,545; 2004: 11,911,359; 2003: 2,884,034 (67,501 ) (26,230 ) (5,311 ) End of Year Shares: 2005: 1,553,769,958; 2004: 1,575,147,418; 2003: 1,580,247,227 $ 3,523,766 $ 3,239,575 $ 3,034,054 Common Shares Held in Treasury: Beginning of Year Shares: 2005: 15,123,800; 2004: 15,729,296; 2003: 15,876,449 $ (220,854 ) $ (229,696 ) $ (231,845 ) Issued under incentive stock programs Shares: 2005: 588,821; 2004: 605,496; 2003: 147,153 8,599 8,842 2,149 End of Year Shares: 2005: 14,534,979; 2004: 15,123,800; 2003: 15,729,296 $ (212,255 ) $ (220,854 ) $ (229,696 ) Unearned Compensation  Restricted Stock Awards: Beginning of Year $ (50,110 ) $ (56,336 ) $ (76,472 ) Issued at market value  Shares: 2005: 588,600; 2004: 589,000; 2003: 130,000 (27,125 ) (25,528 ) (5,429 ) Lapses  Shares: 2005: 50,999; 2004: 57,899 2,198 3,029  Amortization 28,731 28,725 25,565 End of Year $ (46,306 ) $ (50,110 ) $ (56,336 ) Earnings Employed in the Business: Beginning of Year $ 10,033,440 $ 9,691,484 $ 8,601,386 Net earnings 3,372,065 3,235,851 2,753,233 Cash dividends declared on common shares (per share  2005: $1.10; 2004: $1.04; 2003: $.98) (1,704,077 ) (1,622,148 ) (1,531,710 ) Spin-off of Hospira, Inc.
(761,916 )  Cost of common shares retired in excess of stated capital amount (1,315,397 ) (527,197 ) (135,390 ) Cost of treasury shares issued below market value 18,537 17,366 3,965 End of Year $ 10,404,568 $ 10,033,440 $ 9,691,484 Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss): Beginning of Year $ 1,323,732 $ 632,752 $ (519,782 ) Other comprehensive (loss) income and spin-off of Hospira, Inc.
(578,234 ) 690,980 1,152,534 End of Year $ 745,498 $ 1,323,732 $ 632,752 The accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements are an integral part of this statement.
50 Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Note1Summary of Significant Accounting Policies NATURE OF BUSINESS  Abbott's principal business is the discovery, development, manufacture and sale of a broad line of health care products.
CONCENTRATION OF RISK AND GUARANTEES  Due to the nature of its operations, Abbott is not subject to significant concentration risks relating to customers, products or geographic locations, except that three U.S. wholesalers accounted for 24percent of trade receivables as of December31, 2005 and 20percent of trade receivables as of December31, 2004 and 2003. Product warranties are not significant.
Abbott has no material exposures to off-balance sheet arrangements; no special purpose entities; nor activities that include non-exchange-traded contracts accounted for at fair value. Abbott has periodically entered into agreements in the ordinary course of business, such as assignment of product rights, with other companies which has resulted in Abbott becoming secondarily liable for obligations that Abbott was previously primarily liable. Since Abbott no longer maintains a business relationship with the other parties, Abbott is unable to develop an estimate of the maximum potential amount of future payments, if any, under these obligations. Based upon past experience, the likelihood of payments under these agreements is remote. Abbott periodically acquires small companies in which Abbott agrees to pay contingent consideration based on attaining certain thresholds. In connection with the spin-off of Hospira, Abbott has retained liabilities for taxes on income prior to the spin-off and certain potential liabilities, if any, related to alleged improper pricing practices in connection with federal, state and private reimbursement for certain drugs.
BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION  The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the parent company and subsidiaries, after elimination of intercompany transactions. The accounts of foreign subsidiaries are consolidated as of November30, due to the time needed to consolidate these subsidiaries. In December2005, certain foreign subsidiaries borrowed approximately $1.4billion. These borrowings and related interest expense have been reflected on the December31, 2005 Consolidated Balance Sheet and 2005 Consolidated Statement of Earnings. No other events occurred related to these foreign subsidiaries in December2005, 2004 and 2003 that materially affected the financial position, results of operations or cash flows.
USE OF ESTIMATES  The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States and necessarily include amounts based on estimates and assumptions by management. Actual results could differ from those amounts. Significant estimates include amounts for sales rebates, income taxes, pension and other post-employment benefits, valuation of intangibles, litigation, stock compensation, and inventory and accounts receivable exposures.
REVENUE RECOGNITION  Revenue from product sales is recognized upon passage of title and risk of loss to customers (when product is delivered to common carrier for shipment to domestic customers). Provisions for discounts, rebates and sales incentives to customers, and returns and other adjustments are provided for in the period the related sales are recorded. Sales incentives to customers are not material. Historical data is readily available and reliable, and is used for estimating the amount of the reduction in gross sales. Revenue from the launch of a new product, from an improved version of an existing product, or for shipments in excess of a customer's normal requirements are recorded when the conditions noted above are met. In those situations, management records a returns reserve for such revenue, if necessary. Sales of product rights for marketable products are recorded as revenue upon disposition of the rights. Revenue from license of product rights, or for performance of research or selling activities, is recorded over the periods earned.
51 INCOME TAXES  Deferred income taxes are provided for the tax effect of differences between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their reported amounts in the financial statements at the enacted statutory rate to be in effect when the taxes are paid. U.S. income taxes are provided on those earnings of foreign subsidiaries which are intended to be remitted to the parent company. Except for taxes on dividends that were remitted under the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, deferred income taxes are not provided on undistributed earnings reinvested indefinitely in foreign subsidiaries as working capital and plant and equipment. Loss contingency provisions are recorded for the estimated amount of audit settlements under the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No.5, "Accounting for Contingencies." PENSION AND POST-EMPLOYMENT BENEFITS  Abbott accrues for the actuarially determined cost of pension and post-employment benefits over the service attribution periods of the employees. With the assistance of outside actuaries, Abbott must develop long-term assumptions, the most significant of which are the health care costs trend rate, discount rate and the expected return on plan assets. Differences between the expected long-term return on plan assets and the actual annual return are amortized over a five-year period. Unrecognized actuarial losses and gains are amortized over the remaining service attribution periods of the employees under the corridor method.
VALUATION OF INTANGIBLE ASSETS  Purchased intangible assets are recorded at fair value. The fair value of significant purchased intangible assets is based on independent appraisals. Abbott uses a discounted cash flow model to value intangible assets. The discounted cash flow model requires assumptions about the timing and amount of future net cash inflows, risk, the cost of capital and terminal values. Intangible assets and goodwill are reviewed for impairment at least on a quarterly and annual basis, respectively.
STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION  Through December31, 2005, Abbott measured compensation cost using the intrinsic value-based method of accounting for stock options and replacement stock options granted to employees. Restricted stock awards and units have been amortized over their vesting period with a charge to compensation expense. In 2006, Abbott will adopt SFAS No.123 (revised 2004), "Share-Based Payment," which requires that the fair value of stock options be recorded in the results of operations.
LITIGATION  Abbott accounts for litigation losses in accordance with SFAS No.5. Under SFAS No.5, loss contingency provisions are recorded for probable losses at management's best estimate of a loss, or when a best estimate cannot be made, a minimum loss contingency amount is recorded.
CASH, CASH EQUIVALENTS AND INVESTMENT SECURITIES  Cash equivalents consist of time deposits and certificates of deposit with original maturities of three months or less. Investments in marketable equity securities are classified as available-for-sale and are recorded at fair value with any unrealized holding gains or losses, net of tax, included in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). Investments in equity securities that are not traded on public stock exchanges are recorded at cost. Abbott monitors equity investments for other than temporary declines in fair value and charges impairment losses to income when an other than temporary decline in estimated value occurs. Investments in debt securities are classified as held-to-maturity, as management has both the intent and ability to hold these securities to maturity, and are reported at cost, net of any unamortized premium or discount. Income relating to these securities is reported as a component of interest income.
Abbott reviews the carrying value of investments in equity securities each quarter to determine whether an other than temporary decline in market value exists. Abbott considers factors affecting the investee, factors affecting the industry the investee operates in, and general equity market trends. Abbott considers the length of time an investment's market value has been below carrying value and the near-term 52 prospects for recovery to carrying value. When Abbott determines that an other than temporary decline has occurred, the investment is written down with a charge to Other (income) expense, net.
INVENTORIES  Inventories are stated at the lower of cost (first-in, first-out basis) or market. Cost includes material and conversion costs.
PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT  Depreciation and amortization are provided on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the assets. The following table shows estimated useful lives of property and equipment: Classification EstimatedUsefulLives Buildings 10to50years(average27years) Equipment 3 to 20 years (average 11 years) PRODUCT LIABILITY  Abbott accrues for product liability claims, on an undiscounted basis, when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the liability can be reasonably estimated based on existing information. The liabilities are adjusted quarterly as additional information becomes available. Receivables for insurance recoveries for product liability claims are recorded as assets, on an undiscounted basis, when it is probable that a recovery will be realized. Abbott carries third-party insurance coverage in amounts that reflect historical loss experience, which does not include coverage for catastrophic losses.
TRANSLATION ADJUSTMENTS  For foreign operations in highly inflationary economies, translation gains and losses are included in Net foreign exchange (gain) loss. For remaining foreign operations, translation adjustments are included in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss).
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT COSTSInternal research and development costs are expensed as incurred. Clinical trial costs incurred by third parties are expensed as the contracted work is performed. Where contingent milestone payments are due to third parties under research and development arrangements, the milestone payment obligations are expensed when the milestone results are achieved.
RECLASSIFICATION Operating cash flows and investing cash flows of discontinued operations have been reclassified separately for 2004 and 2003 in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows.
53 Note2Supplemental Financial Information (dollars in thousands) 2005 2004 2003 Other Accrued Liabilities: Accrued rebates payable to government agencies $ 620,300 $ 519,653 $ 381,898 Accrued other rebates (a) 206,514 202,363 212,459 All other 1,895,871 1,769,940 1,585,741 Total $ 2,722,685 $ 2,491,956 $ 2,180,098 (a) Accrued wholesaler chargeback rebates of $83,551, $72,634 and $81,292 at December31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively, are netted in trade receivables. Accrued wholesaler chargeback rebates are netted in trade receivables because Abbott's customers are invoiced at a higher catalog price but only remit to Abbott their contract price for the products.
2005 2004 2003 Post-employment Obligations and Other Long-term Liabilities: Accrued post-employment medical and dental costs $ 638,823 $ 747,406 $ 797,127 Minimum pension liability adjustments 15,003 577,432 498,008 All other 1,500,949 1,281,572 1,256,085 Total $ 2,154,775 $ 2,606,410 $ 2,551,220 2005 2004 2003 Net Interest Expense: Interest expense $ 241,355 $ 200,206 $ 188,288 Interest income (87,693 ) (51,119 ) (41,923 ) Total $ 153,662 $ 149,087 $ 146,365 2005 2004 2003 Comprehensive Income, net of tax: Foreign currency (loss) gain translation adjustments $ (953,726 ) $ 861,139 $ 1,162,004 Minimum pension liability adjustments, net of taxes of $(199,126) in 2005, $45,690 in 2004 and $57,219 in 2003 346,172 (75,947 ) (99,155 ) Unrealized (losses) gains on marketable equity securities (9,219 ) (43,613 ) 106,673 Net adjustments for derivative instruments designated as cash flow hedges 38,574 (39,951 ) 3,550 Reclassification adjustments for realized (gains) (35 ) (30,547 ) (20,538 ) Other comprehensive (loss) income (578,234 ) 671,081 1,152,534 Net Earnings 3,372,065 3,235,851 2,753,233 Comprehensive Income $ 2,793,831 $ 3,906,932 $ 3,905,767 54 2005 2004 2003 Supplemental Comprehensive Income Information, net of tax: Cumulative foreign currency translation (gain) adjustments $ (761,175 ) $ (1,714,901 ) $ (853,762 ) Cumulative minimum pension liability adjustments 8,931 355,103 302,337 Cumulative unrealized (gains) on marketable equity securities (8,447 ) (17,701 ) (95,143 ) Cumulative losses on derivative instruments designated as cash flow hedges 15,193 53,767 13,816 2005 2004 2003 Supplemental Cash Flow Information: Income taxes paid $ 746,504 $ 675,728 $ 832,380 Interest paid 213,067 197,554 207,045 Note3Financial Instruments and Derivatives Certain Abbott foreign subsidiaries enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to manage exposures to changes in foreign exchange rates for anticipated intercompany purchases by those subsidiaries whose functional currencies are not the U.S. dollar. These contracts, totaling $222million, $984million and $602million at December31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively, are designated as cash flow hedges of the variability of the cash flows due to changes in foreign exchange rates .
Abbott records the contracts at fair value, resulting in credits of $38.6million and $3.6million to Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) in 2005 and 2003, respectively, and a $40.0million charge to Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) in 2004. No hedge ineffectiveness was recorded in income in 2005, 2004 or 2003. Accumulated gains and losses as of December31, 2005 will be included in Cost of products sold at the time the products are sold, generally through the end of 2006.
Abbott enters into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to manage currency exposures for foreign currency denominated third-party trade payables and receivables, and for intercompany loans and trade accounts payable where the receivable or payable is denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the entity. For intercompany loans, the contracts require Abbott to sell or buy foreign currencies, primarily European currencies and Japanese yen, in exchange for primarily U.S. dollars and other European currencies. For intercompany and trade payables and receivables, the currency exposures are primarily the U.S. dollar, European currencies and Japanese yen. These contracts are recorded at fair value, with the resulting gains or losses reflected in income as Net foreign exchange (gain) loss. At December31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, Abbott held $3.9billion, $3.3billion and $3.0billion, respectively, of such foreign currency forward exchange contracts.
Abbott is a party to interest rate hedge contracts totaling $3.1billion to manage its exposure to changes in the fair value of $3.1billion of fixed-rate debt due July2006 through March2014. These contracts are designated as fair value hedges of the variability of the fair value of fixed-rate debt due to changes in the long-term benchmark interest rates. The effect of the hedge is to change a fixed-rate interest obligation to a variable rate for that portion of the debt. Abbott records the contracts at fair value and adjusts the carrying amount of the fixed-rate debt by an offsetting amount. No hedge ineffectiveness was recorded in income in 2005, 2004 and 2003.
Gross unrealized holding gains (losses) (in thousands) on current and long-term held-to-maturity investment securities totaled $300 and $(400), respectively, at December31, 2005; $1,200 and $(900), respectively, at December31, 2004; and $1,400 and $(2,200), respectively, at December31, 2003. Gross unrealized holding gains (losses) on available-for-sale equity securities totaled $17,700 and $(3,500), 55 respectively, at December31, 2005; $30,800 and $(1,100), respectively, at December31, 2004; and $162,700 and $(4,000), respectively, at December31, 2003.
The carrying values and fair values of certain financial instruments as of December31 are shown in the table below. The carrying values of all other financial instruments approximate their estimated fair values. Fair value is the quoted market price of the instrument held or the quoted market price of a similar instrument. The counter parties to financial instruments consist of select major international financial institutions. Abbott does not expect any losses from nonperformance by these counter parties.
2005 2004 2003 Carrying Value FairValue Carrying Value FairValue Carrying Value FairValue (dollars in millions) Investment Securities: Current $ 62.4 $ 62.4 $ 833.3 $ 833.3 $ 291.3 $ 291.3 Long-term: Available-for-Sale Equity Securities 116.4 116.4 125.5 125.5 381.1 381.1 Other 17.6 17.5 20.3 20.6 25.3 24.5 Total Long-term Debt (6,421.1 ) (6,375.1 ) (4,944.0 ) (5,012.6 ) (5,161.6 ) (5,407.2 ) Foreign Currency Forward Exchange Contracts: (Payable) position (33.5 ) (33.5 ) (117.1 ) (117.1 ) (33.3 ) (33.3 ) Receivable position 18.8 18.8 37.2 37.2 3.0 3.0 Interest Rate Hedge Contracts (82.4 ) (82.4 ) (3.7 ) (3.7 ) 128.7 128.7 56 Note4 Post-Employment Benefits (dollars in thousands) Retirement plans consist of defined benefit, defined contribution, and medical and dental plans. Information for Abbott's major defined benefit plans and post-employment medical and dental benefit plans is as follows: DefinedBenefitPlans MedicalandDentalPlans 2005 2004 2003 2005 2004 2003 Projected benefit obligations, January1 $ 4,753,225 $ 4,646,321 $ 3,748,425 $ 1,112,124 $ 1,241,845 $ 1,286,831 Service cost benefits earned during the year 205,286 187,146 192,529 43,554 34,628 43,737 Interest cost on projected benefit obligations 259,709 253,249 247,117 64,088 64,054 69,365 Losses (gains), primarily changes in discount and medical trend rates, plan design changes, law changes and differences between actual and estimated health care costs 142,453 174,669 497,468 138,442 (44,707 ) (100,158 ) Benefits paid (195,964 ) (191,543 ) (169,560 ) (65,907 ) (67,232 ) (57,930 ) Spin-off of Hospira  (425,069 )   (116,464 )  Other, primarily foreign currency translation (123,623 ) 108,452 130,342    Projected benefit obligations, December31 $ 5,041,086 $ 4,753,225 $ 4,646,321 $ 1,292,301 $ 1,112,124 $ 1,241,845 Plans' assets at fair value, January 1, principally listed securities $ 3,465,666 $ 3,017,732 $ 2,373,415 $  $  $  Actual return on plans' assets 384,912 285,794 441,307 9,080   Company contributions 755,982 565,909 309,473 205,907 67,232 57,930 Benefits paid (195,964 ) (191,543 ) (169,560 ) (65,907 ) (67,232 ) (57,930 ) Spin-off of Hospira  (262,109 )     Other, primarily foreign currency translation (61,817 ) 49,883 63,097    Plans' assets at fair value, December 31 $ 4,348,779 $ 3,465,666 $ 3,017,732 $ 149,080 $  $  Projected benefit obligations greater than plans' assets, December 31 $ (692,307 ) $ (1,287,559 ) $ (1,628,589 ) $ (1,143,221 ) $ (1,112,124 ) $ (1,241,845 ) Unrecognized actuarial losses, net 1,501,409 1,494,915 1,436,013 697,717 587,976 718,215 Unrecognized prior service cost 5,004 (5,835 ) 13,575 (264,499 ) (285,659 ) (334,662 ) Net prepaid (accrued) benefit cost $ 814,106 $ 201,521 $ (179,001 ) $ (710,003 ) $ (809,807 ) $ (858,292 ) Accrued benefit cost $ (463,789 ) $ (617,533 ) $ (883,358 ) $ (710,003 ) $ (809,807 ) $ (858,292 ) Prepaid benefit cost 1,262,892 241,622 206,349    Intangible assets 130 17,261 22,460    Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) 14,873 560,171 475,548    Net prepaid (accrued) benefit cost $ 814,106 $ 201,521 $ (179,001 ) $ (710,003 ) $ (809,807 ) $ (858,292 ) Service cost  benefits earned during the year $ 205,286 $ 187,146 $ 192,529 $ 43,554 $ 34,628 $ 43,737 Interest cost on projected benefit obligations 259,709 253,249 247,117 64,088 64,054 69,365 Expected return on plans' assets (360,304 ) (295,294 ) (288,454 ) (11,948 )   Net amortization 65,812 30,809 6,452 10,409 5,650 6,768 Total cost 170,503 175,910 157,644 106,103 104,332 119,870 Discontinued operations  (9,781 ) (20,404 )  (14,349 ) (33,630 ) Net cost of continuing operations $ 170,503 $ 166,129 $ 137,240 $ 106,103 $ 89,983 $ 86,240 57 The projected benefit obligations for non-U.S. defined benefit plans was $1,148,000, $1,132,000 and $950,000 at December31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. The accumulated benefit obligations for all defined benefit plans was $4,158,000, $3,954,000 and $3,762,000 at December31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. In 2005, Abbott reversed previously recorded minimum pension liability adjustments of $562,429 because the assets of certain defined benefit plans were now in excess of the accumulated benefit obligations due primarily to plan contributions in 2005. This resulted in a credit to Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) of $346,172, net of taxes. In 2004 and 2003, Abbott recorded minimum pension liability adjustments of $120,475 and $155,134, respectively, because the accumulated benefit obligations for certain defined benefit plans exceeded the market value of the plans' assets. This resulted in charges to Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) of $75,947 and $99,155 in 2004 and 2003, respectively, net of taxes. For plans where the accumulated benefit obligations exceeded plan assets at December31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, the aggregate accumulated benefit obligations were $465,000, $3,053,000 and $3,033,000, respectively; the projected benefit obligations were $508,000, $3,738,000 and $3,824,000, respectively; and the aggregate plan assets were $5,000, $2,909,000 and $2,567,000, respectively.
The weighted average assumptions used to determine benefit obligations for defined benefit plans and medical and dental plans as of December31, the measurement date of the plans, are as follows: 2005 2004 2003 Discount rate 5.5 % 5.6 % 5.8 % Expected aggregate average long-term change in compensation 4.2 % 4.2 % 4.2 % The weighted average assumptions used to determine the net cost for defined benefit plans and medical and dental plans are as follows: 2005 2004 2003 Discount rate 5.6 % 6.0 % 6.5 % Expected return on plan assets 8.4 % 8.4 % 8.6 % Expected aggregate average long-term change in compensation 4.2 % 4.2 % 4.1 % The assumed health care cost trend rates for medical and dental plans at December31 were as follows: 2005 2004 2003 Health care cost trend rate assumed for the next year 7 % 7 % 8 % Rate that the cost trend rate gradually declines to 5 % 5 % 5 % Year that rate reaches the assumed ultimate rate 2012 2007 2007 The discount rate used to measure liabilities as of December31, 2005 was determined based on high-quality fixed income investments that match the duration of the expected retiree benefits. Prior to December31, 2005, the discount rate was determined by reference to a composite corporate AA bond index. The health care cost trend rate represents Abbott's expected annual rates of change in the cost of health care benefits and is a forward projection of health care costs as of the measurement date. A one-percentage point increase/(decrease) in the assumed health care cost trend rate would increase/(decrease) the accumulated post-employment benefit obligations as of December31, 2005, by $201,320/$(161,383), and the total of the service and interest cost components of net post-employment health care cost for the year then ended by approximately $19,207/$(15,025).
58 In 2004, Abbott reflected the requirements of Financial Accounting Standards Board Staff Position No.106-2, "Accounting and Disclosure Requirements Related to the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003." As a result, the projected benefit obligations related to benefits attributed to past service were reduced by approximately $210,000 and the net cost recognized in 2004 was reduced by approximately $33,000.
The weighted average asset allocation for Abbott's U.S. defined benefit plans by asset category is shown in the table below. Abbott's international defined benefit plans have similar equity content.
2005 2004 2003 Asset Category: Equity securities 74 % 73 % 68 % Fixed income securities 26 27 32 Total 100 % 100 % 100 % The investment mix between equity securities and fixed income securities is based upon achieving a desired return, balancing higher return, more volatile equity securities, and lower return, less volatile fixed income securities. Abbott's domestic defined benefit plans are invested in diversified portfolios of public-market equity and fixed income securities. Investment allocations are made across a range of markets, industry sectors, capitalization sizes, and, in the case of fixed income securities, maturities and credit quality. The plans hold no securities of Abbott. Abbott's international defined benefit plans are invested in a corresponding manner, with some variance in portfolio structure around local practices.
The plans' expected return on assets, as shown above, is based on management's expectations of long-term average rates of return to be achieved by the underlying investment portfolios. In establishing this assumption, management considers historical and expected returns for the asset classes in which the plans are invested, as well as current economic and capital market conditions.
Abbott funds its domestic pension plans according to IRS funding limitations. In 2005, 2004 and 2003, $641,000, $482,000 and $200,000, respectively, was funded to the main domestic pension plan .
International pension plans are funded according to similar regulations.
Total benefit payments expected to be paid to participants, which includes payments funded from company assets for medical and dental benefits as well as paid from the plans, are as follows: Defined BenefitPlans Medicaland DentalPlans 2006 $ 191,780 $ 70,060 2007 195,164 72,093 2008 202,949 76,740 2009 203,924 77,614 2010 212,239 83,805 2011 to 2015 1,253,092 490,219 The Abbott Stock Retirement Plan is the principal defined contribution plan. Abbott's contributions to this plan were $100,000 in 2005, $97,000 in 2004 and $90,000 in 2003.
Abbott provides certain other post-employment benefits, primarily salary continuation plans, to qualifying domestic employees, and accrues for the related cost over the service lives of the employees.
59 Note5  Taxes on Earnings (dollars in thousands) Deferred income taxes reflect the tax consequences on future years of differences between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their financial reporting amounts. U.S. income taxes are provided on those earnings of foreign subsidiaries, which are intended to be remitted to the parent company. Except for taxes on dividends that were remitted under the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, Abbott does not record deferred income taxes on earnings reinvested indefinitely in foreign subsidiaries. Undistributed earnings reinvested indefinitely in foreign subsidiaries as working capital and plant and equipment aggregated $5,797,000 at December31, 2005. It is not practicable to determine the amount of deferred income taxes not provided on these earnings. Abbott has recorded reserves for income tax loss contingencies in accordance with SFAS No.5. The maximum possible loss in excess of the recorded reserves is not material. In the U.S., Abbott's federal income tax returns through 2000 are settled, and the income tax returns for years after 2000 are open.
Earnings from continuing operations before taxes, and the related provisions for taxes on earnings from continuing operations, were as follows: 2005 2004 2003 Earnings From Continuing Operations Before Taxes Domestic $ 2,068,232 $ 2,278,180 $ 1,657,298 Foreign 2,551,688 1,847,420 1,729,853 Total $ 4,619,920 $ 4,125,600 $ 3,387,151 2005 2004 2003 Taxes on Earnings From Continuing Operations Current: U.S. Federal and Possessions $ 526,213 $ 172,322 $ 536,305 State 89,483 43,456 20,873 Foreign 616,118 461,740 403,895 Total current 1,231,814 677,518 961,073 Deferred: Domestic 4,709 295,030 (15,780 ) Foreign 17,035 (24,272 ) (62,519 ) Enacted tax rate changes (5,703 ) 1,488 (348 ) Total deferred 16,041 272,246 (78,647 ) Total $ 1,247,855 $ 949,764 $ 882,426 60 Differences between the effective income tax rate and the U.S. statutory tax rate were as follows: 2005 2004 2003 Statutory tax rate on earnings from continuing operations 35.0 % 35.0 % 35.0 % Benefit of lower tax rates and tax exemptions in Puerto Rico, the Netherlands and Ireland (6.4 ) (7.8 ) (9.1 ) Effect of nondeductible portion of a legal settlement   4.0 Effect of taxes on remittances of foreign earnings in connection with the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 5.3   Effect of nondeductible acquired in-process research and development  2.0 1.0 State taxes, net of federal benefit 1.2 1.1 0.4 Adjustments primarily related to resolution of prior years' accrual requirements (1.8 ) (3.6 )  Domestic dividend exclusion (2.7 ) (2.6 ) (4.8 ) All other, net (3.6 ) (1.1 ) (0.4 ) Effective tax rate on earnings from continuing operations 27.0 % 23.0 % 26.1 % As of December31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, total deferred tax assets were $2,040,906, $2,171,782 and $2,505,502, respectively, and total deferred tax liabilities were $1,355,181, $1,349,972 and $1,075,209, respectively. Valuation allowances for deferred tax assets were not significant. The tax effect of the differences that give rise to deferred tax assets and liabilities were as follows: 2005 2004 2003 Compensation and employee benefits $ 37,578 $ 247,885 $ 539,668 Trade receivable reserves 227,251 223,507 252,559 Inventory reserves 161,934 129,052 163,492 Deferred intercompany profit 319,402 379,560 380,854 State income taxes 49,153 (7,336 ) 68,489 Depreciation (157,272 ) (193,224 ) (203,019 ) Acquired in-process research and development and other accruals and reserves not currently deductible 1,132,954 1,111,611 1,005,602 Other, primarily the excess of book basis over tax basis of intangible assets (1,095,182 ) (1,079,388 ) (779,402 ) Total $ 675,818 $ 811,667 $ 1,428,243 Among the provisions of the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 was a provision that allows for the exclusion from income of a portion of the remittances of earnings of foreign subsidiaries to U.S. shareholders through December31, 2005. In 2005, Abbott remitted in accordance with the provisions of the Act approximately $4,300,000 of foreign earnings previously reinvested indefinitely. The additional income tax expense recorded for the remittance was approximately $245,000.
Note6 Segment and Geographic Area Information (dollars in millions) REVENUE SEGMENTS Abbott's principal business is the discovery, development, manufacture and sale of a broad line of health care products. Abbott's products are generally sold directly to retailers, wholesalers, hospitals, health care facilities, laboratories, physicians' offices and government agencies throughout the world. On April30, 2004, Abbott spun off its core hospital products business which 61 included all of the Hospital Products segment, after its reorganization on January1, 2004, and a portion of the International segment. For segment reporting purposes, four diagnostic testing divisions are aggregated and reported as the Diagnostic Products segment. Abbott's reportable segments are as follows: PHARMACEUTICAL PRODUCTS U.S. sales of a broad line of pharmaceuticals.
DIAGNOSTIC PRODUCTS Worldwide sales of diagnostic systems and tests for blood banks, hospitals, consumers, commercial laboratories and alternate-care testing sites.
ROSS PRODUCTS Primarily U.S. sales of a broad line of adult and pediatric nutritional products, pediatric pharmaceuticals and consumer products.
INTERNATIONAL Non-U.S. sales of Abbott's pharmaceutical and nutritional products.
Abbott's underlying accounting records are maintained on a legal entity basis for government and public reporting requirements. Segment disclosures are on a performance basis consistent with internal management reporting. Intersegment transfers of inventory are recorded at standard cost and are not a measure of segment operating earnings. The cost of some corporate functions and the cost of certain employee benefits are sold to segments at predetermined rates that approximate cost. Remaining costs, if any, are not allocated to segments. Substantially all intangible assets and related amortization from business acquisitions are not allocated to segments. The following segment information has been prepared in accordance with the internal accounting policies of Abbott, as described above, and are not presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles applied to the consolidated financial statements.
Net Sales to External Customers Operating Earnings Depreciation and Amortization Additions to Long-term Assets Total Assets 2005 2004 2003 2005 2004 2003 2005 2004 2003 2005 2004 2003 2005 2004 2003 Pharmaceutical $ 8,138 $ 7,010 $ 6,051 $ 2,527 $ 2,459 $ 2,092 $ 65 $ 63 $ 73 $ 177 $ 66 $ 64 $ 3,423 $ 2,911 $ 2,406 Diagnostics (a) 3,756 3,378 3,040 495 378 249 231 201 202 425 399 301 3,742 3,691 3,127 Ross (b) 2,523 2,326 2,136 743 773 720 77 69 65 56 77 93 1,373 1,105 959 International (a) 6,967 6,166 5,321 2,060 1,704 1,295 127 178 198 237 312 297 4,189 4,437 4,559 Total Reportable Segments 21,384 18,880 16,548 $ 5,825 $ 5,314 $ 4,356 $ 500 $ 511 $ 538 $ 895 $ 854 $ 755 $ 12,727 $ 12,144 $ 11,051 Other 954 800 732 Net Sales $ 22,338 $ 19,680 $ 17,280 (a) Net sales and operating earnings for all years presented were favorably affected by the relatively weaker U.S. dollar.
(b) Net sales and operating earnings for the Ross segment in 2005 include $70 from a revised agreement for the U.S. promotion of Synagis .
2005 2004 2003 Total Reportable Segment Operating Earnings $ 5,825 $ 5,314 $ 4,356 Corporate functions and benefit plans costs 289 341 278 Non-reportable segments 166 223 68 Net interest expense 154 149 146 Acquired in-process research and development 17 279 100 (Income) from TAP Pharmaceutical Products Inc. joint venture (441 ) (375 ) (581 ) Other, net, including amortization of intangible assets (c) 1,020 571 958 Consolidated Earnings from Continuing Operations Before Taxes $ 4,620 $ 4,126 $ 3,387 62 (c) Other, net for 2005 includes $256 for restructuring and impairment charges as discussed in Note16 and an increase in a bad debt reserve of $58 associated with an unfavorable court ruling. Other, net for 2004 includes acquisition-related charges, primarily related to the TheraSense acquisition. 2003 includes charges of $622 for the settlement of the Ross enteral nutritional investigation and $88 for impairments of assets.
2005 2004 2003 Total Reportable Segment Assets $ 12,727 $ 12,144 $ 11,051 Cash and investments 3,090 2,205 1,693 Investment in TAP Pharmaceutical Products Inc. joint venture 167 76 340 Current deferred income taxes 1,249 1,032 1,165 Non-reportable segments 1,321 1,663 582 Assets held for sale to Hospira and assets of Hospira 163 317 2,153 All other, net 10,424 11,330 9,055 Total Assets $ 29,141 $ 28,767 $ 26,039 Net Sales to External Customers(d) Long-Term Assets 2005 2004 2003 2005 2004 2003 United States $ 12,707 $ 11,242 $ 9,919 $ 7,717 $ 7,293 $ 7,071 Japan 1,027 987 897 935 1,044 1,004 Germany 992 811 785 5,467 6,176 5,332 The Netherlands 899 705 556 156 146 129 Italy 806 745 658 211 234 253 Canada 680 595 526 68 68 66 France 657 587 467 92 94 84 Spain 542 513 426 232 275 233 United Kingdom 504 496 397 1,281 1,415 1,250 All Other Countries 3,524 2,999 2,649 1,596 1,288 1,003 Consolidated $ 22,338 $ 19,680 $ 17,280 $ 17,755 $ 18,033 $ 16,425 (d) Sales by country are based on the country that sold the product.
Note7 Litigation and Environmental Matters As of December31, 2004, there were several lawsuits pending in connection with the sales of Hytrin . These suits alleged that Abbott violated state or federal antitrust laws and, in some cases, unfair competition laws by signing patent settlement agreements with Geneva Pharmaceuticals,Inc. and Zenith Laboratories,Inc. in 1998. Those agreements related to pending patent infringement lawsuits between Abbott and the two companies. In 2005, the court approved settlements with the majority of the plaintiffs in the aggregate amount of $90million, which was previously reserved. The claims of the remaining plaintiffs are not material and are reserved for by Abbott.
Abbott has been identified as a potentially responsible party for investigation and cleanup costs at a number of locations in the United States and Puerto Rico under federal and state remediation laws and is investigating potential contamination at a number of company-owned locations. Abbott has recorded an estimated cleanup cost for each site for which management believes Abbott has a probable loss exposure. No individual site cleanup exposure is expected to exceed $3million, and the aggregate cleanup exposure is not expected to exceed $20million.
63 Within the next year, legal proceedings may occur that may result in a change in the estimated reserves recorded by Abbott. For its legal proceedings and environmental exposures, including those discussed in this note and in Note8, Abbott estimates the range of possible loss to be from approximately $15million to $60million. Reserves of approximately $35million have been recorded at December31, 2005 for these proceedings and exposures. These reserves represent management's best estimate of probable loss, as defined by Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No.5, "Accounting for Contingencies." While it is not feasible to predict the outcome of all such proceedings and exposures with certainty, management believes that their ultimate disposition should not have a material adverse effect on Abbott's financial position, cash flows, or results of operations.
Note8 TAP Pharmaceutical ProductsInc.
As of December31, 2004, TAP Pharmaceutical ProductsInc. (TAP) and Abbott were named as defendants in several lawsuits alleging violations of various state or federal laws in connection with TAP's marketing and pricing of Lupron . In 2005, settlements, including a court-approved class settlement, were reached with the majority of the plaintiffs in the aggregate amount of approximately $160million, which was previously reserved. The claims of the remaining plaintiffs are not material and are reserved for by TAP. Abbott's portion of TAP's remaining reserve is included in the reserve amounts and range in Note7 above.
Within the next year, legal proceedings may occur that may result in a change in the estimated reserves recorded by TAP. While it is not feasible to predict the outcome of such pending claims, proceedings, and investigations with certainty, management is of the opinion that their ultimate disposition should not have a material adverse effect on Abbott's financial position, cash flows, or results of operations.
Note9 Spin-off of Hospira On April12, 2004, Abbott's Board of Directors declared a special dividend distribution of all of the outstanding shares of common stock of Hospira,Inc., payable on April30, 2004. Hospira included the operations relating to the manufacture and sale of hospital products including specialty injectable pharmaceuticals, medication delivery systems and critical care devices and injectable pharmaceutical contract manufacturing. Hospira included Abbott's Hospital Products segment, after that segment's reorganization on January1, 2004, and portions of Abbott's International segment. The income and cash flows of Hospira and the direct transaction costs of the spin-off have been presented as discontinued operations in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings and Statement of Cash Flows. Prior years' balance sheets have not been adjusted to reflect the effect of the spin-off.
The legal transfer of certain remaining operations and assets (net of liabilities) outside the United States is expected to occur in the first half of 2006. These operations and assets are used in the conduct of Hospira's international business and Hospira is subject to the risks and entitled to the benefits generated by these operations and assets. These assets and liabilities have been presented as held for sale in the Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December31, 2005 and 2004. The assets and liabilities held for sale consist primarily of inventories, trade accounts receivable, equipment and trade accounts payable, salaries and other accruals.
Abbott has retained liabilities for taxes on income prior to the spin-off, defined benefit, post-employment medical and dental plan obligations and assets, as of the spin-off, for most of Hospira's U.S. retired employees and U.S. retirement eligible employees and certain potential liabilities, if any, 64 related to alleged improper pricing practices prior to the spin-off in connection with federal, state and private reimbursement for certain drugs.
Summarized financial information for discontinued operations is as follows: 2004 2003 (dollarsinthousands) Net sales $ 793,129 $ 2,400,228 Earnings before taxes 90,444 347,266 Taxes on earnings 30,429 98,758 Net earnings 60,015 248,508 The financial information above includes the operations of Hospira through April30, 2004, the date of the spin-off. As a consequence, the results for the full year 2004 include only four months of the operations of Hospira. The results of the discontinued operations also include direct transaction costs of approximately $36million and $12million in 2004 and 2003, respectively.
The following is a summary of the assets and liabilities transferred to Hospira on April30, 2004: (dollarsinmillions) Trade receivables, net $ 235 Inventories 481 Prepaid expenses, deferred income taxes, and other receivables 269 Net property and equipment 841 Goodwill 81 Deferred income taxes and other assets 91 Total Assets $ 1,998 Short-term borrowings $ 700 Trade accounts payable, salaries and other accruals 346 Post-employment obligations and other long-term liabilities 185 Total Liabilities $ 1,231 Net Assets Transferred to Hospira $ 767 Note10 Incentive Stock Program The 1996 Incentive Stock Program authorizes the granting of stock options, replacement stock options, stock appreciation rights, limited stock appreciation rights, restricted stock awards, restricted stock units, performance units and foreign qualified benefits. Stock options, replacement stock options and restricted stock awards comprise the majority of benefits that have been granted and are currently outstanding under this program and prior programs. In 2005, Abbott granted 21,499,002 stock options, 4,190,704 replacement stock options, 588,821 restricted stock awards and 42,379 restricted stock units under the program. The purchase price of shares under option must be at least equal to the fair market value of the common stock on the date of grant, and the maximum term of an option is 10years. Options granted in 2005, 2004 and 2003 vest equally over three years except for replacement options, which vest in six months. When an employee tenders mature shares to Abbott upon exercise of a stock option, a replacement stock option is granted equal to the amount of shares tendered. Replacement options are granted at the then current market price for a term that expires on the date of the underlying option grant. Except for replacement options, options granted after December31, 2004 do not have a replacement option feature. Upon a change in control of Abbott, all outstanding stock options become fully exercisable, and all terms and conditions of all restricted stock awards are deemed satisfied. Hospira optionees who 65 were eligible to retire as of the spin-off date are retired from Abbott for purposes of their outstanding options. Pro forma compensation expense for 2004 reflects the cancellation of the remaining options. Abbott options were adjusted for the effects of the spin-off on the intrinsic value of the options and resulted in the issuance of an additional 8.2million Abbott options.
At January1, 2006, approximately 47million shares were reserved for future grants under the 1996 Program. Subsequent to year-end, the Board of Directors granted approximately 25million stock options and restricted stock awards and units from this reserve.
Options Outstanding Exercisable Options Shares WeightedAverage ExercisePrice Shares WeightedAverage ExercisePrice January 1, 2003 99,680,756 $ 43.58 Granted 27,464,985 36.56 Exercised (total intrinsic value was $99,311,000) (7,032,966 ) 29.08 Lapsed (2,602,110 ) 47.58 December 31, 2003 117,510,665 42.71 71,944,163 $ 41.80 Granted 25,617,191 43.51 Exercised (total intrinsic value was $132,602,000) (10,173,088 ) 30.54 Lapsed (4,868,809 ) 45.09 Cancelled in connection with the spin-off of Hospira (4,826,161 ) 43.81 Issued in connection with the spin-off of Hospira 8,228,700 n/a December 31, 2004 131,488,498 41.01 85,810,967 41.28 Granted 25,689,706 46.46 Exercised (total intrinsic value was $188,754,000) (13,030,288 ) 32.63 Lapsed (3,025,105 ) 45.24 December 31, 2005 141,122,811 $ 42.69 98,328,158 $ 42.77 The number of restricted stock awards and units outstanding and their weighted-average grant-date fair value at January1, 2005 and December31, 2005 was 2,093,100 ($50.92) and 2,381,800 ($50.09), respectively. The number of restricted stock awards and units, and their weighted-average grant-date fair value, granted, vested and lapsed during 2005 were 610,200 ($46.14), 262,501 ($49.01) and 58,999 ($43.50), respectively. The fair value of restricted stock awards and units vested in 2005, 2004, and 2003 was $12,949,000, $16,469,000 and $12,712,000, respectively.
Options Outstanding at December 31, 2005 Exercisable Options at December 31, 2005 Range of Exercise Prices Shares WeightedAverage RemainingLife (Years) WeightedAverage ExercisePrice Shares WeightedAverage RemainingLife (Years) WeightedAverage ExercisePrice $20 to $39 34,617,055 4.9 $ 32.46 27,217,030 4.3 $ 32.20 40 to46 58,166,583 6.1 42.89 44,213,471 5.4 43.45 47 to55 48,339,173 7.6 49.76 26,897,657 6.3 52.37 $20 to $55 141,122,811 6.3 $ 42.69 98,328,158 5.4 $ 42.77 66 The aggregate intrinsic value of options outstanding and exercisable at December31, 2005 was $241,000,000 and $197,000,000, respectively. The total unrecognized compensation cost related to all stock-based compensation plans at December31, 2005 amounted to $201,000,000 and is expected to be recognized over the next three years.
Through December31, 2005, Abbott measured compensation cost using the intrinsic value-based method of accounting for stock options and replacement options granted to employees. Had compensation cost been determined using the fair value-based accounting method, pro forma net income ( in billions ) and earnings per share (EPS) amounts would have been as follows: 2005 2004 2003 Net income, as reported $ 3.4 $ 3.2 $ 2.8 Compensation cost under fair value-based accounting method, net of taxes of $0.07 in 2005 and 2004 and $0.08 in 2003 (0.2 ) (0.2 ) (0.3 ) Net income, pro forma $ 3.2 $ 3.0 $ 2.5 Diluted EPS from Continuing Operations, as reported $ 2.16 $ 2.02 $ 1.59 Diluted EPS from Continuing Operations, pro forma 2.02 1.90 1.47 Basic EPS, as reported 2.17 2.07 1.76 Basic EPS, pro forma 2.04 1.94 1.62 Diluted EPS, as reported 2.16 2.06 1.75 Diluted EPS, pro forma 2.02 1.94 1.62 The weighted average fair value of an option granted in 2005, 2004 and 2003 was $12.17, $11.79 and $8.73, respectively. For purposes of fair value disclosures, the fair value of an option grant was estimated using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model with the following assumptions: 2005 2004 2003 Risk-free interest rate 3.8 % 2.9 % 2.7 % Average life of options (years) 5.4 5.4 5.4 Volatility 29.0 % 32.0 % 32.0 % Dividend yield 2.2 % 2.2 % 2.8 % In 2006, Abbott will adopt Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No.123 (revised 2004), "Share-Based Payment," which requires that fair value be recorded in the results of operations. Stock compensation expense under the prior rules would have reduced reported diluted earnings per share by $0.14 in 2005. Upon adoption of the revised standard, prior awards are charged to expense under the prior rules, and awards after adoption are charged to expense under the revised rules. Based upon the valuation of stock options granted in the 2006 annual grant, which comprise the majority of the grant activity for the year, Abbott estimates the impact of the 2006 change in stock compensation expense on diluted earnings per share of approximately $0.15, which includes $0.14 per diluted share for the impact of expensing the fair value of stock options. The effect of adopting the new rules on reported diluted earnings per share is dependent on the number of options granted in the future, the terms of those awards and their fair values, and therefore, the effect on diluted earnings per share could change.
67 Note11Debt and Lines of Credit (dollars in thousands) The following is a summary of long-term debt at December31: 2005 2004 2003 6.8% debentures, due 2005 $  $  $ 150,000 5.625% debentures, due 2006  1,600,000 1,600,000 6.4% debentures, due 2006  250,000 250,000 0.77% Yen notes, due 2007 83,654 97,343 91,324 Notes, variable interest above LIBOR, due 2008 770,000   Euro notes, variable interest above LIBOR, due 2008 638,766   British Pound notes, variable interest above LIBOR, due 2008 344,000   6.0% debentures, due 2008 200,000 200,000 200,000 5.4% debentures, due 2008 200,000 200,000 200,000 1.05% Yen notes, due 2008 418,270 486,713 456,621 3.5% debentures, due 2009 500,000 500,000  1.51% Yen notes, due 2010 125,481 146,014 136,986 3.75% debentures, due 2011 500,000 500,000  1.95% Yen notes, due 2013 209,135 243,356 228,311 4.35% debentures, due 2014 500,000 500,000  Other, including fair market value adjustments relating to interest rate hedge contracts designated as fair value hedges 82,198 64,508 139,087 Total, net of current maturities 4,571,504 4,787,934 3,452,329 Current maturities of long-term debt 1,849,563 156,034 1,709,265 Total carrying amount $ 6,421,067 $ 4,943,968 $ 5,161,594 Principal payments required on long-term debt outstanding at December31, 2005, are $1,855,323 in 2006, $88,986 in 2007, $2,667,698 in 2008, $501,199 in 2009, $126,530 in 2010 and $1,263,710 thereafter.
At December31, 2005, Abbott had $3,000,000 of unused lines of credit, which support commercial paper borrowing arrangements. Related compensating balances, which are subject to withdrawal by Abbott at its option, and commitment fees are not material. Abbott's weighted average interest rate on short-term borrowings, primarily Japanese borrowings at December31, 2005, was 1.3% at December31, 2005, 2.2% at December31, 2004 and 1.1% at December31, 2003.
Note12 Business Combinations and Technology Acquisitions In 2005, Abbott acquired the remaining interest in a small medical products company that was previously accounted for under the equity method of accounting and a less than 50percent equity interest in a small medical products company. The aggregate cash purchase price was approximately $25million. Acquisition accounting resulted in the recording of non-tax deductible goodwill of approximately $69million, intangible assets of approximately $22million and a charge of approximately $17million for acquired in-process research and development. In 2005, Abbott acquired additional rights related to HUMIRA for approximately $270million, which will be amortized over 13years.
In 2004, Abbott paid approximately $2.3billion for strategic business and technology acquisitions, as follows. Abbott acquired TheraSense,Inc., a leader in the development, manufacturing and marketing of blood glucose self-monitoring systems, for approximately $1.2billion in cash; i-STAT Corporation, a manufacturer of point-of-care diagnostic products for blood analysis, for approximately $394million in cash; EAS, a nutritional company with a portfolio of nationally recognized brands, for approximately $320million in cash; and Spine Next, a manufacturer of orthopedic spinal implant devices, for 68 approximately $58million in cash plus additional milestone payments of up to $23million upon achievement of future targets. Abbott also acquired certain other product technologies for approximately $352million. These acquisitions resulted in a charge of $271million for acquired in-process research and development, intangible assets of approximately $1.3billion, non-tax deductible goodwill of approximately $923million and deferred income taxes of approximately $406million. Acquired intangible assets, primarily trade names, are amortized over 5 to 20years (average of approximately 14years).
In 2003, Abbott paid approximately $459million for strategic business and technology acquisitions, as follows. Abbott acquired ZonePerfect Nutrition Company, a marketer of healthy and nutritious products for active people, for approximately $160million in cash; Integrated Vascular Systems,Inc., a developer of a novel vessel closure technology, for approximately $65million in cash; and Spinal ConceptsInc., a marketer of spinal fixation products used in the treatment of spinal disorders, diseases and injuries, for approximately $166million in cash plus additional milestone payments of up to $40million if agreed upon targets are met. Abbott also acquired the assets of JOMED N.V.'s coronary and peripheral interventional business for approximately $68million in cash. These acquisitions resulted in a charge of approximately $100million for acquired in-process research and development, intangible assets of approximately $222million and non-tax deductible goodwill of approximately $182million. Acquired intangible assets, primarily product technology, are amortized over 9 to 25years (average of approximately 16years).
Had the above acquisitions taken place on January1 of the previous year, consolidated sales and income would not have been significantly different from reported amounts.
In early 2006, Abbott agreed to acquire Guidant's vascular intervention and endovascular solutions businesses for $4.1billion in connection with Boston Scientific's acquisition of Guidant. Abbott would also pay $250million each upon government approvals to market Guidant's drug-eluting stent in the U.S. and in Japan. In addition, Abbott agreed to provide Boston Scientific a $900million 4percent loan and to acquire $1.4billion of Boston Scientific common stock directly from Boston Scientific contingent upon the closing of the Guidant acquisition. The acquisition is expected to be completed in the first half of 2006.
Note13 Goodwill and Intangible Assets (dollars in millions) Abbott recorded goodwill of $69, $923 and $182 in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively, related to acquisitions. Foreign currency translation and other adjustments (decreased) increased goodwill in 2005, 2004 and 2003 by $(535), $394 and $522, respectively. In connection with the spin-off of Hospira in 2004, Abbott transferred $81 of goodwill to Hospira. There were no other reductions of goodwill relating to impairments or disposal of all or a portion of a business.
The gross amount of amortizable intangible assets, primarily product rights and technology, was $6,776, $6,622 and $4,841 as of December31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively, and accumulated amortization was $2,053, $1,468 and $899 as of December31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Intangible assets with indefinite lives are not significant. The estimated annual amortization expense for intangible assets is $486 in 2006, $475 in 2007, $460 in 2008, $459 in 2009 and $461 in 2010. Intangible assets are amortized primarily on a straight-line basis over 4 to 25years (average 13years).
Note14 Equity Method Investments (dollars in millions) Abbott's 50percent-owned joint venture, TAP Pharmaceutical ProductsInc. (TAP), is accounted for under the equity method of accounting. The investment in TAP was $167, $76 and $340 at December31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Dividends received from TAP were $343, $638 and $606 in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Abbott performs certain administrative and manufacturing services for TAP at 69 negotiated rates that approximate fair market value. Summarized financial information for TAP is as follows: Year Ended December31 2005 2004 2003 Net sales $ 3,260.0 $ 3,361.6 $ 3,979.6 Cost of sales 883.4 990.4 1,066.8 Income before taxes 1,379.3 1,181.1 1,815.5 Net income 882.8 750.0 1,161.9 December 31 2005 2004 2003 Current assets $ 1,339.1 $ 951.7 $ 1,451.6 Total assets 1,470.2 1,176.6 1,718.1 Current liabilities 1,082.2 976.8 965.8 Total liabilities 1,136.2 1,025.2 1,037.2 Undistributed earnings of investments accounted for under the equity method amounted to approximately $151 as of December31, 2005.
Note15 Stock Purchase Rights Common shares outstanding are subject to stock purchase rights. The rights are exercisable only if a person or group acquires ten percent or more of Abbott common shares or announces a tender or exchange offer which would result in ownership of ten percent or more of Abbott common shares. Following the acquisition of ten percent or more of Abbott's common shares, the holders of the rights, other than the acquiring person or group, may purchase Abbott common shares at half price. In the event of a merger or other acquisition of Abbott, the holders of the rights, other than the acquiring person or group, may purchase shares of the acquiring entity at half price. The rights were not exercisable at December31, 2005.
Note16 Restructuring Plans (dollars in millions) In 2005, Abbott management approved plans to realign its global manufacturing operations and selected domestic and international commercial operations. In 2005, Abbott recorded pretax charges against earnings of approximately $256 reflecting the impairment of manufacturing facilities and other assets, employee severance and other related charges. Approximately $174 is classified as cost of products sold, $10 as research and development and $72 as selling, general and administrative. An additional $14 was subsequently recorded in 2005 relating to these restructurings, primarily for accelerated depreciation. As a result of product re-registration timelines required under manufacturing regulations in a number of countries, manufacturing related realignments are expected to continue into 2007.
70 The following summarizes the restructuring activity for the global pharmaceutical manufacturing operations restructuring: Employee- Related andOther Asset Impairments Total 2005 restructuring charges $ 44.1 $ 52.7 $ 96.8 Payments and impairments (0.3 ) (52.7 ) (53.0 ) Accrued balance at December 31, 2005 $ 43.8 $  $ 43.8 The following summarizes the restructuring activity for all other restructurings, which are individually not material: Employee- Related andOther Asset Impairments Total 2005 restructuring charges $ 147.6 $ 11.1 $ 158.7 Payments and impairments (36.6 ) (11.1 ) (47.7 ) Accrued balance at December 31, 2005 $ 111.0 $  $ 111.0 Abbott expects to incur up to an additional $150 in future periods for restructuring plans, primarily for accelerated depreciation and plant and equipment dispositions.
71 Note17 Quarterly Results (Unaudited) (dollars in millions except per share data) 2005 2004 2003 First Quarter Net Sales $ 5,382.7 $ 4,640.9 $ 4,008.9 Gross Profit 2,860.1 2,567.4 2,209.0 Net Earnings 837.9 822.9 801.0 Basic Earnings Per Common Share(a) .54 .53 .51 Diluted Earnings Per Common Share(a) .53 .52 .51 Market Price Per Share-High 48.16 47.25 40.85 Market Price Per Share-Low 43.34 39.28 33.75 Second Quarter Net Sales $ 5,523.8 $ 4,703.0 $ 4,126.3 Gross Profit 2,892.0 2,634.3 2,277.9 Net Earnings(b) 877.1 634.3 246.6 Basic Earnings Per Common Share(a)(b) .56 .41 .16 Diluted Earnings Per Common Share(a)(b) .56 .40 .16 Market Price Per Share-High 49.98 44.67 46.94 Market Price Per Share-Low 45.98 39.43 37.57 Third Quarter Net Sales $ 5,384.0 $ 4,681.7 $ 4,247.8 Gross Profit 2,706.8 2,566.8 2,319.1 Net Earnings(c) 680.7 804.1 761.2 Basic Earnings Per Common Share(a)(c) .44 .52 .49 Diluted Earnings Per Common Share(a)(c) .44 .51 .48 Market Price Per Share-High 50.00 43.20 45.09 Market Price Per Share-Low 41.57 38.26 37.65 Fourth Quarter Net Sales $ 6,047.3 $ 5,654.4 $ 4,897.3 Gross Profit 3,237.8 3,027.3 2,700.1 Net Earnings 976.4 974.6 944.4 Basic Earnings Per Common Share(a) .63 .62 .60 Diluted Earnings Per Common Share(a) .63 .62 .60 Market Price Per Share-High 44.36 47.63 47.15 Market Price Per Share-Low 37.50 40.25 39.95 (a) The sum of the quarters' basic and diluted earnings per share for 2004 does not add to the full year earnings per share amounts due to rounding.
(b) Second quarter 2003 included a pretax charge of $622 for the settlement of litigation.
(c) Third quarter 2005 includes pretax restructuring charges of $201.
72 Management Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting The management of Abbott Laboratories is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. Abbott's internal control system was designed to provide reasonable assurance to the company's management and board of directors regarding the preparation and fair presentation of published financial statements.
All internal control systems, no matter how well designed, have inherent limitations. Therefore, even those systems determined to be effective can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to financial statement preparation and presentation.
Abbott's management assessed the effectiveness of the company's internal control over financial reporting as of December31, 2005. In making this assessment, it used the criteria set forth in Internal ControlIntegrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Based on our assessment, we believe that, as of December31, 2005, the company's internal control over financial reporting was effective based on those criteria.
Abbott's independent registered public accounting firm has issued an audit report on our assessment of the company's internal control over financial reporting. This report appears on page 75.
MilesD. White CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER ThomasC. Freyman EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT, FINANCE AND CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER Greg W. Linder VICE PRESIDENT AND CONTROLLER February17, 2006 73 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of Abbott Laboratories: We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Abbott Laboratories and subsidiaries (the Company) as of December31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, and the related consolidated statements of earnings, shareholders' investment, and cash flows for the years then ended. These consolidated financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
In our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Abbott Laboratories and subsidiaries as of December31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for the years then ended, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of December31, 2005, based on the criteria established in Internal ControlIntegrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our report dated February17, 2006, expressed an unqualified opinion on management's assessment of the effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial reporting and an unqualified opinion on the effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial reporting.
Deloitte& Touche LLP Chicago, Illinois February17, 2006 74 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of Abbott Laboratories: We have audited management's assessment, included in the accompanying Management Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting dated February17, 2006, that Abbott Laboratories and subsidiaries (the Company) maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of December31, 2005, based on criteria established in Internal ControlIntegrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. The Company's management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on management's assessment and an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.
We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, evaluating management's assessment, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinions.
A company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed by, or under the supervision of, the company's principal executive and principal financial officers, or persons performing similar functions, and effected by the company's board of directors, management, and other personnel to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company's internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1)pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2)provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3)provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Because of the inherent limitations in internal control over financial reporting, including the possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Also, projections of any evaluation of the effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
In our opinion, management's assessment that the Company maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of December31, 2005, is fairly stated, in all material respects, based on criteria established in Internal ControlIntegrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Also in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December31, 2005, based on the criteria established in Internal ControlIntegrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.
We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated financial statements as of and for the year ended December31, 2005 of the Company and our report dated February17, 2006 expressed an unqualified opinion on those financial statements.
Deloitte& Touche LLP Chicago, Illinois February17, 2006 75 TAP Pharmaceutical ProductsInc.
Consolidated Statements of Income and Comprehensive  Income (dollars in thousands) Years Ended December31 2005 2004 2003 Net Sales $ 3,259,850 $ 3,361,634 $ 3,979,629 Cost of Sales 883,404 990,417 1,066,760 Gross Profit 2,376,446 2,371,217 2,912,869 Selling, General and Administrative 783,041 1,027,203 935,347 Research and Development 219,412 167,625 167,938 Income from Operations 1,373,993 1,176,389 1,809,584 Interest Income 5,339 9,293 9,712 Other (Expense), net (1 ) (4,630 ) (3,832 ) Income Before Taxes 1,379,331 1,181,052 1,815,464 Provision for Income Taxes 496,559 431,083 653,566 Net Income 882,772 749,969 1,161,898 Other Comprehensive Income: Net unrealized (losses) on investment and forward contracts (13,959 ) (3,066 ) (10,085 ) Comprehensive Income $ 868,813 $ 746,903 $ 1,151,813 See notes to consolidated financial statements.
76 TAP Pharmaceutical ProductsInc.
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (dollars in thousands) Years Ended December31 2005 2004 2003 Cash Flows From Operating Activities: Net income $ 882,772 $ 749,969 $ 1,161,898 Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash flows from operating activities: Depreciation and amortization 24,137 29,022 35,518 Deferred income taxes 65,349 (70,219 ) 28,791 Changes in assets and liabilities: Accounts receivable (158,980 ) 75,444 40,568 Inventories 1,049 7,217 (43,807 ) Prepaid expenses and other assets 9,138 (11,322 ) (2,963 ) Accounts payable and accrued liabilities (62,429 ) (99,930 ) (17,794 ) Accrued rebates 163,643 98,254 181,737 Accrued compensation and benefits 9,745 (10,305 ) (13,720 ) Net Cash Flows From Operating Activities 934,424 768,130 1,370,228 Cash Flows (Used in) From Investing Activities: Proceeds from maturities of investments 153,350 316,750 373,488 Purchases of investments (281,150 ) (99,600 ) (357,750 ) Capital expenditures (6,759 ) (6,785 ) (7,078 ) Net Cash Flows (Used in) From Investing Activities (134,559 ) 210,365 8,660 Cash Flows (Used in) Financing Activities: Dividends paid (686,155 ) (1,276,448 ) (1,211,414 ) Payments under capital lease obligations (15,344 ) (8,518 )  Cash Flows (Used in) Financing Activities (701,499 ) (1,284,966 ) (1,211,414 ) Net Increase (Decrease) in Cash and Cash Equivalents 98,366 (306,471 ) 167,474 Cash and Cash Equivalents  Beginning of Year 62,155 368,626 201,152 Cash and Cash Equivalents  End of Year $ 160,521 $ 62,155 $ 368,626 Supplemental Disclosure of Cash Flow Information: Cash paid during the year for income taxes $ 409,336 $ 579,140 $ 505,004 See notes to consolidated financial statements.
77 TAP Pharmaceutical ProductsInc.
Consolidated Balance Sheets (in thousands, except share amount) December31 2005 2004 Assets Current Assets: Cash and cash equivalents $ 160,521 $ 62,155 Short-term investments, primarily debt obligations issued by governmentalagencies 229,966 27,408 Accounts receivable, net of allowances: 2005  $57,447; 2004  $44,853 664,098 505,118 Inventories 160,240 161,289 Deferred income taxes 72,029 120,051 Prepaid expenses and other assets 52,248 75,227 Total Current Assets 1,339,102 951,248 Property and Equipment, net 110,528 113,062 Other Assets, net 2,922 2,298 Long-Term Investments, primarily debt obligations issued by governmentalagencies  75,000 Deferred Income Taxes 17,630 34,957 $ 1,470,182 $ 1,176,565 Liabilities and Shareholders' Equity Current Liabilities: Accounts payable and accrued liabilities $ 206,209 $ 199,369 Payable to Takeda 47,743 87,447 Payable to Abbott 36,714 86,018 Accrued rebates 674,684 511,041 Income taxes payable 63,577 50,074 Accrued compensation and benefits 53,262 42,802 Total Current Liabilities 1,082,189 976,751 Other Liabilities 53,971 48,450 Total Liabilities 1,136,160 1,025,201 Commitments and Contingencies Shareholders' Equity: Common stock, no par value  authorized, issued and outstanding, 200shares 39,500 39,500 Additional paid-in capital 6,449 6,449 Accumulated other comprehensive (loss) (14,704 ) (745 ) Retained earnings 302,777 106,160 Total Shareholders' Equity 334,022 151,364 $ 1,470,182 $ 1,176,565 See notes to consolidated financial statements.
78 TAP Pharmaceutical ProductsInc.
Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity Years Ended December31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 (dollars in thousands, except share amounts) Common Stock Additional Paid-In Capital Accumulated Other Comprehensive (Loss)Income Retained Earnings Total Shareholders' Equity Shares Amount Balance, January1, 2003 200 $ 39,500 $ 6,449 $ 12,406 $ 682,155 $ 740,510 Net income     1,161,898 1,161,898 Net unrealized loss on option and forward contracts, net of taxes of $(6,051)    (10,085 )  (10,085 ) Dividends     (1,211,414 ) (1,211,414 ) Balance, December31, 2003 200 39,500 6,449 2,321 632,639 680,909 Net income     749,969 749,969 Net unrealized loss on investment and forward contracts, net of taxes of $(1,150)    (3,066 )  (3,066 ) Dividends     (1,276,448 ) (1,276,448 ) Balance, December31, 2004 200 39,500 6,449 (745 ) 106,160 151,364 Net income     882,772 882,772 Net unrealized loss on investment and forward contracts, net of taxes of $(8,368)    (13,959 )  (13,959 ) Dividends     (686,155 ) (686,155 ) Balance, December31, 2005 200 $ 39,500 $ 6,449 $ (14,704 ) $ 302,777 $ 334,022 See notes to consolidated financial statements.
79 TAP Pharmaceutical ProductsInc.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Years Ended December31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 (dollars in thousands) Note1. Description of the Business TAP Pharmaceutical ProductsInc. and subsidiaries (TAP) is a Delaware corporation owned equally by Abbott Laboratories (Abbott), an Illinois corporation, and Takeda America Holdings,Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Takeda Pharmaceutical Company,Ltd., a Japanese corporation (collectively Takeda). TAP is headquartered in Lake Forest, Illinois and has approximately 3,100 employees. Under an agreement between Abbott and Takeda, TAP develops, markets and sells human pharmaceutical products in the United States, Puerto Rico, and Canada. TAP operates as one business segment with sales primarily in the United States.
TAP's primary products are Prevacid and Lupron . The principal indications for Prevacid (lansoprazole), a proton pump inhibitor, are for short-term treatment of duodenal ulcers, gastric ulcers and erosive esophagitis.
Lupron (leuprolide acetate), a luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone (LH-RH) analog, and Lupron Depot , a sustained release form of Lupron , are used principally for the palliative treatment of advanced prostate cancer, endometriosis and central precocious puberty, and for the pre-operative treatment of patients with anemia caused by uterine fibroids.
The patents related to lansoprazole and Lupron Depot are material to the operation of TAP's business. The original United States compound patent covering lansoprazole is licensed by TAP from Takeda. The original United States patents covering the Lupron Depot formulations are licensed by TAP from Takeda.
TAP's products are generally sold directly to physicians, retailers, wholesalers, health care facilities, and government agencies. In most cases, they are distributed from Abbott-owned distribution centers. Primary marketing efforts are directed toward securing the prescription of TAP's brand of products by physicians. Managed care purchasers (for example, health maintenance organizations and pharmacy benefit managers) are increasingly important customers.
TAP's products are supplied by its owners, principally Takeda. A disruption in the supply of these products could adversely impact the operating results of TAP. Sales of TAP's primary products are as follows: 2005 2004 2003 Prevacid $ 2,501,052 $ 2,592,116 $ 3,190,220 Lupron 698,806 770,210 787,768 Financial instruments that potentially subject TAP to concentrations of credit risk consist primarily of accounts receivable. TAP sells primarily to wholesale distributors and a majority of TAP's accounts receivable are derived from sales to wholesale distributors. Three U.S. wholesale distributors accounted for more than 10% of TAP's gross sales as follows: 2005 2004 2003 Wholesale distributor A 22 % 20 % 25 % Wholesale distributor B 20 % 19 % 24 % Wholesale distributor C 14 % 19 % 17 % In 2005, TAP licensed the Prevacid trademark, certain patents and technical information to a third party for the over-the-counter sale of Prevacid in the United States. Consideration for the license includes upfront and milestone payments in addition to royalties on future over-the-counter sales of Prevacid .
80 TAP has no material exposures to off-balance sheet arrangements; nor special purpose entities; nor activities that include non-exchange-traded contracts accounted for at fair value, except for the equity swap agreements that hedge market price exposure for employee stock options as described in Note6.
Note2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies BASIS OF PRESENTATIONThe consolidated financial statements include the accounts of TAP and all of its subsidiaries. All intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated.
USE OF ESTIMATESThe preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires estimates and assumptions by management. Actual results could differ from those estimates. Significant estimates include amounts for litigation, income taxes, sales rebates, inventory reserves and accounts receivable allowances.
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTSCash equivalents include time deposits, certificates of deposit, commercial paper, money market funds and other short-term investments in governmental agency debt securities with original maturities of three months or less, or which are contractually convertible to cash in three months or less.
INVESTMENT SECURITIESInvestments in debt securities are classified as held-to-maturity, as management has both the intent and ability to hold these securities to maturity, and are reported at cost, net of any unamortized premium or discount. Investments in marketable equity securities are classified as available-for-sale and are recorded at fair value with any unrealized holding gains or losses, net of tax, included in Accumulated other comprehensive (loss).
INVENTORIESInventories are stated at the lower of cost (first-in, first-out basis) or market. Cost includes material and packaging costs. Inventories consist of the following as of December31: 2005 2004 Finished goods $ 104,931 $ 95,337 Work-in-process 55,309 65,952 Total inventories $ 160,240 $ 161,289 PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENTProperty and equipment are recorded at cost less accumulated depreciation. Depreciation is provided using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets. The estimated useful lives of property and equipment are as follows: Building 50 years Leasehold improvements 2-3 years (or life of lease, whichever is less) Automobiles 50 months Furniture and fixtures 10-20 years Computer hardware and software 3-10 years Long-lived assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable based on projected undiscounted cash flows associated with the affected assets. If the fair value is less than the carrying value of the asset, a loss is recognized for the difference. Fair value is determined based on market quotes, if available, or is based on valuation techniques.
REVENUE RECOGNITIONRevenue from product sales is recognized upon passage of title and risk of loss to customers (when product is delivered to a common carrier). Revenue from license of product 81 rights is recorded over the periods earned. Provisions for estimated rebates and sales incentives to customers, doubtful accounts, cash discounts, product returns and customer chargebacks are provided for in the period of the related sale. Rebates and sales incentives are recorded as accrued rebates in the balance sheets. Reserves for doubtful accounts, cash discounts, product returns and customer chargebacks are recorded as reductions to accounts receivable. Historical data is readily available and reliable, and is used for estimating the amount of the reduction in gross sales.
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENTInternal research and development costs are expensed as incurred. Clinical trial costs incurred by third parties are expensed as the contracted work is performed. Where milestone payments are due to third parties under research and development arrangements, the milestone payment obligations are expensed when the milestone results are achieved.
ADVERTISING AND PROMOTION EXPENSEAll advertising and promotion costs are expensed as Selling, general and administrative expenses when incurred. Total advertising and promotion expense incurred was $203,375, $227,882 and $344,141 for 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively.
INCOME TAXESDeferred income taxes are recognized for the tax consequences of temporary differences by applying statutory tax rates applicable to future years to differences between the financial statement carrying amount and the tax basis of assets and liabilities.
RECLASSIFICATIONSInvestments in auction rate securities at December31, 2003 of $237,750 have been reclassified from cash and cash equivalents to short-term investments because such investments had maturities greater than 90days. This reclassification increased investing activities in 2004 and decreased investing activities in 2003 as reflected in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. In addition, certain other reclassifications have been made to prior year financial statements to conform to the current-year presentation.
Note3. Property and Equipment and Lease Obligations Property and equipment consists of the following at December31: 2005 2004 Land and land improvements $ 13,337 $ 13,337 Building 17,884 17,884 Leasehold improvements 687 687 Furniture and fixtures 34,802 33,919 Computer hardware and software 48,708 45,628 Construction-in-progress 2,297 2,296 Automobiles under capital leases 49,237 52,113 Tooling 1,360 1,741 Property and equipment 168,312 167,605 Less accumulated depreciation and amortization (57,784 ) (54,543 ) Property and equipment, net $ 110,528 $ 113,062 TAP leases certain administrative and regional sales offices, equipment, and automobiles under non-cancelable leases, which expire at various dates through 2011. Lease expense totaled $5,153, $4,990 82 and $5,220 for 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Future minimum lease payments under non-cancelable operating and capital leases as of December31, 2005 consist of the following: 2006 $ 17,142 2007 13,770 2008 10,082 2009 4,231 Thereafter 3,676 Total $ 48,901 Note 4. Financial Instruments and Derivatives TAP enters into foreign currency forward contracts and purchases Yen call options to hedge purchases of inventories at fixed Yen-denominated prices. The forward contracts require TAP to purchase Yen in exchange for U.S. dollars at pre-determined exchange rates. The Yen call options give TAP the right to purchase Yen in exchange for U.S. dollars at pre-determined strike prices. Both forward and option contracts are designated as cash flow hedges of the variability of cash flows due to changes in exchange rates. TAP does not trade financial instruments with the objective of earning financial gains on the exchange rate fluctuations alone, nor does it trade in currencies or commodities for which there are no underlying exposures.
Effectiveness of the forward contracts is based on changes in the forward rates. Effectiveness of call options is based solely on the changes in fair value. The effective portion of the changes in value of both forward and option contracts is recorded in Accumulated other comprehensive (loss), and is subsequently recognized in earnings in the same period the hedged forecasted transactions affect earnings. Any cash flow hedge ineffectiveness is reported in earnings in the current period.
At December31, 2005, TAP had outstanding foreign exchange forward contracts with notional values of $392,096 and fair values of $(18,638). There were no foreign currency contracts outstanding at December31, 2004. The fair value of these contracts is recorded as accounts payable and other liabilities at December31, 2005. During 2005, 2004, and 2003 cash flow hedge ineffectiveness was not material.
The carrying value of cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments approximates fair value due to the short-term maturity of the investments. The fair value of long-term investments in debt obligations was $74,111 as of December31, 2004.
Note5. Employee Benefit Plans TAP employees participate in various Abbott employee benefit plans, including the Abbott Laboratories Annuity Retirement Plan, the Abbott Laboratories Stock Retirement Plan, and the Abbott Laboratories Incentive Stock Program (see Note6 for further details). TAP is billed for its share of the costs of these plans. TAP's share of the employer contribution to the Abbott Laboratories Annuity Retirement Plan is allocated based on TAP's proportionate share of the total compensation expense of all participants in the plan. TAP made contributions in 2005, 2004 and 2003 of $16,000, $43,088 and $16,520, respectively, to the plan. TAP's contribution to the Abbott Laboratories Stock Retirement Plan is based on participating employee contributions. TAP's contributions for 2005, 2004, and 2003 were $12,619, $11,563 and $11,251, respectively.
TAP provides health and welfare benefits to its employees through the TAP Pharmaceutical ProductsInc. Healthcare Plan (Healthcare Plan). Contributions are made in accordance with the Healthcare Plan's funding policy. TAP provides certain medical and life insurance benefits to qualifying 83 retirees through the TAP Pharmaceutical ProductsInc. Retiree Medical Plan (Retiree Plan). The following provides a reconciliation of the post-employment benefit obligations and funded status of the Retiree Plan: 2005 2004 Change in benefit obligations: Projected benefit obligations, January 1 $ 23,067 $ 20,589 Service cost 2,592 2,467 Interest cost 1,242 1,119 Actuarial loss (gain) 1,102 (763 ) Benefits paid (325 ) (345 ) Projected benefit obligations, December 31 $ 27,678 $ 23,067 Reconciliation of funded status: Unfunded status $ (27,678 ) $ (23,067 ) Unrecognized net actuarial loss 12,390 11,670 Unrecognized prior service cost (7,544 ) (7,945 ) Accrued post-employment benefit liability, December 31 $ (22,832 ) $ (19,342 ) The components of net cost are as follows: 2005 2004 2003 Service cost $ 2,592 $ 2,467 $ 2,149 Interest cost 1,242 1,119 978 Net amortization (19 ) 19 (6 ) Net cost $ 3,815 $ 3,605 $ 3,121 The discount rates used to determine benefit obligations for medical and dental plans as of December31, the measurement date for the plan, was 5.75percent and 5.8percent for 2005 and 2004, respectively. The discount rates used to determine net cost for medical and dental plans for 2005, 2004 and 2003 were 5.8percent, 6.0percent, and 6.75percent, respectively.
The assumed health care cost trend rates for medical and dental plans at December31 were as follows: 2005 2004 2003 Health care cost trend rate assumed for the next year 7 % 7 % 8 % Rate that the cost trend rate gradually declines to 5 % 5 % 5 % Year that rate reaches the assumed ultimate rate 2012 2007 2007 A one-percentage point increase (decrease) in the assumed health care trend rate would increase (decrease) the accumulated post-employment benefit obligations as of December31, 2005 by approximately $7,012 and $(5,255), respectively, and the total of the service and interest cost components of net post-employment benefit cost for the year then ended by approximately $1,123 and $(827), respectively.
84 Total benefit payments expected to be paid to participants from company assets for post-employment medical and dental benefits are as follows: 2006 $ 427 2007 474 2008 550 2009 609 2010 732 2011 to 2015 5,954 Note6. Incentive Stock Program Certain employees of TAP are granted options to purchase Abbott common stock under the 1996 Abbott Incentive Stock Program and prior plans. Stock options and replacement stock options granted to TAP employees are currently outstanding under this and prior plans. The purchase price of shares under option must be at least equal to the fair market value of the Abbott common stock on the date of grant, and the maximum term of an option is 10years. Options granted vest equally over three years except for replacement options, which generally vest in six months and have a life equal to the remaining life of the replaced option. Upon a change in control of Abbott, all outstanding stock options become fully exercisable.
All option exercises are transacted with Abbott. TAP is liable for the excess of the fair market value of the option shares granted to TAP employees while employed at TAP over the option price at the time of exercise and reimburses Abbott for the cost of options exercised annually.
As of December31, 2005 and 2004, TAP has recorded a derivative liability for options granted after the adoption of EITF No.02-08 of $37,982 and $42,390, respectively. Changes in the fair value of these options are recorded as Selling, general and administrative expense. Fair value is determined using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model.
As of December31, 2005 and 2004, TAP has recorded a liability for exercised options of $7,119 and $4,199, respectively, as Payable to Abbott. TAP also has recorded a liability for options issued before the adoption of EITF No.02-08 for the difference between the market value and strike price of vested yet unexercised options of $5,009 and $19,402 as of December31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Total expense (income) related to the Abbott Incentive Stock Program of $(12,553), $26,493 and $25,350 was recorded as Selling, general and administrative expense in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively.
Due to the impact of significant fluctuations in the market price of Abbott common stock on the amount of recorded compensation expense of options issued under the Abbott Incentive Stock Program, TAP entered into an ISDA Master Agreement (Master Agreement), dated September29, 2000, which allows TAP to enter into equity swap transactions to hedge this market price exposure. Each equity swap transaction guarantees a return equal to the actual return on a specified number of shares of Abbott common stock and, as such, effectively acts as a hedge of the Abbott Incentive Stock Program. From time to time, TAP enters into equity swap transactions under the Master Agreement. Each transaction has a term of one to three years and requires quarterly cash settlement resulting in all gains and losses being realized and recorded in the statements of income. Each transaction requires ongoing quarterly interest payments based on the equity notional amount, or the fair value of Abbott common stock shares swapped under each transaction at the date of the swap at a rate of LIBOR plus 114 basis points or 100 basis points for transactions prior to October2003. Each equity swap transaction is recorded at fair value. The fair value of equity swaps was $(212)and $19,559 as of December31, 2005 and 2004, respectively, and is recorded as Prepaid expenses and other assets in the balance sheets. For 2005, 2004 and 2003, TAP 85 recorded as Selling, general and administrative expenses $27,945, $(19,085) and $(28,600), respectively, of loss (gain) related to the equity swap investments.
In December2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No.123 (revised 2004), "Share Based Payment." The effect of adopting the new rules on reported income is dependent on the number of options granted in the future and the fair value of those options.
Note7. Income Taxes Loss contingency provisions are recorded for the estimated amount of audit settlements under the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No.5, "Accounting for Contingencies." TAP's U.S. income tax liabilities for years 1999 and forward are subject to final determination by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). The IRS has challenged the deductibility of an item in TAP's 2001 tax return. Management believes its deduction is proper and expects the ultimate resolution will not have a material impact on TAP's financial position, cash flows or results of operations. To the extent that amounts that have been previously deducted differ materially from the actual amounts that are determined to be deductible, TAP's net earnings in future periods could be materially affected.
Deferred income taxes reflect the tax consequences on future years of temporary differences between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their financial reporting amounts. The provision for income taxes includes the following components: 2005 2004 2003 Current: U.S. Federal $ 407,274 $ 481,880 $ 595,393 State 15,560 18,879 23,331 Total current 422,834 500,759 618,724 Deferred: U.S. Federal 66,444 (62,788 ) 32,520 State 7,281 (6,888 ) 2,322 Total deferred 73,725 (69,676 ) 34,842 Total $ 496,559 $ 431,083 $ 653,566 Differences between the effective tax rate and the U.S. statutory tax rate were as follows: 2005 2004 2003 Statutory tax rate 35.0 % 35.0 % 35.0 % State income taxes, net of federal income tax benefit 1.0 0.8 0.9 Other  0.7 0.1 Effective tax rate 36.0 % 36.5 % 36.0 % 86 The temporary differences that give rise to deferred tax assets and liabilities are as follows: 2005 2004 Non-currently deductible escrow payment $ 30,960 $ 54,750 Accounts receivable allowances and inventory reserves 18,499 14,635 Accrued rebates  7,618 Accrued compensation and benefits 15,543 5,921 Other, primarily accrued legal expenses, state and local taxes, and prepaid royalties not currently deductible 24,657 72,084 Total 89,659 155,008 Less current portion (72,029 ) (120,051 ) Long-term net deferred tax assets $ 17,630 $ 34,957 Note8. Litigation and Related Matters TAP, along with its shareholders have been named as defendants in several lawsuits alleging violations of various state or federal laws in connection with TAP's marketing and pricing of Lupron . In 2004, TAP reached an agreement with plaintiffs to settle the allegations for $150,000 and dismiss TAP, Takeda and Abbott from the cases and recorded a charge of $125,000 in Selling, general and administrative expense. However, certain insurance companies opted out of the Lupron settlement to pursue their claims separately and certain individuals have opted out of the settlement. In 2005, TAP recorded an additional charge of $12,300 and the settlement received court approval. The claims of the remaining plaintiffs are not material and are reserved for by TAP.
Within the next year, legal proceedings may occur that may result in a change in the estimated reserves recorded by TAP. While it is not feasible to predict the outcome of such pending claims, proceedings, and investigations with certainty, management is of the opinion that their ultimate disposition should not have a material adverse effect on TAP's financial position, cash flows, or results of operations.
Note9. Related-Party Transactions Various agreements exist among TAP, Abbott and Takeda. All amounts due from and payable to Abbott and Takeda have been respectively netted in the balance sheets in the captions Payable to Abbott and Payable to Takeda.
TAP pays Abbott for services related to packaging and warehousing, research and development, administrative functions, and, in 2004 and 2003, a residual royalty under a co-promotion agreement. Amounts incurred for these services totaled $59,969, $142,676 and $312,309 for 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Under the co-promotion agreement, Abbott promoted Prevacid until June30, 2003. Abbott acted as an agent for TAP and did not take title or ownership of TAP's products. In addition, Abbott purchased, for international markets, TAP's products for $75,295, $73,934 and $69,691 in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively.
TAP purchases all Lupron Depot and Prevacid unpackaged finished goods inventories from Takeda. Purchases are contracted at fixed Yen-denominated prices. The actual cost, in U.S. dollars, paid to Takeda for purchases of these inventories in 2005, 2004 and 2003, totaled $753,096, $714,712 and $733,757, respectively. TAP has royalty agreements with Takeda for sales of Lupron , Lupron Depot and Prevacid . For 2005, 2004 and 2003, TAP recorded royalty expense of $173,878, $179,256 and $216,341, respectively.
87 REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of TAP Pharmaceutical Products,Inc.: We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of TAP Pharmaceutical Products,Inc. and subsidiaries (TAP) as of December31, 2005 and 2004, and the related consolidated statements of income, stockholders' equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December31, 2005. These financial statements are the responsibility of TAP's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. The Company is not required to have, nor were we engaged to perform, an audit of its internal control over financial reporting. Our audits include consideration of internal control over financial reporting as a basis for designing audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of TAP's internal control over financial reporting. Accordingly, we express no such opinion. An audit also includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
In our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of TAP Pharmaceutical Products,Inc. and subsidiaries as of December31, 2005 and 2004, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December31, 2005, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
DELOITTE& TOUCHE LLP Chicago, Illinois February3, 2006 88 ITEM 9.CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE None.
ITEM 9A.CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES Disclosure Controls and Procedures Evaluation of disclosure controls and procedures.
The Chief Executive Officer, Miles D. White, and Chief Financial Officer, Thomas C. Freyman, evaluated the effectiveness of Abbott Laboratories' disclosure controls and procedures as of the end of the period covered by this report, and concluded that Abbott Laboratories' disclosure controls and procedures were effective to ensure that information Abbott is required to disclose in the reports that it files or submits with the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is recorded, processed, summarized and reported, within the time periods specified in the Commission's rules and forms, and to ensure that information required to be disclosed by Abbott in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to Abbott's management, including its principal executive officer and principal financial officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.
Internal Control Over Financial Reporting Management's annual report on internal control over financial reporting.
Management's report on Abbott's internal control over financial reporting is included on page 73 hereof. The report of Abbott's independent registered public accounting firm related to management's assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting is included on page 75 hereof.
Changes in internal control over financial reporting.
During the quarter ended December31, 2005, there were no changes in Abbott's internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Rule13a-15(f) under the Exchange Act) that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, Abbott's internal control over financial reporting.
ITEM 9B.OTHER INFORMATION None.
89 PARTIII ITEM10.DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT Incorporated herein by reference are "Committees of the Board of Directors," "Information Concerning Nominees for Directors," and "Section16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance" to be included in the 2006 Abbott Laboratories Proxy Statement. The 2006 Proxy Statement will be filed on or about March21, 2006. Also incorporated herein by reference is the text found under the caption, "Executive Officers of the Registrant" on pages19 through 25 hereof.
Abbott has adopted a code of ethics that applies to its principal executive officer, principal financial officer, principal accounting officer and controller. That code is part of Abbott's code of business conduct, which is available free of charge through Abbott's investor relations website (www.abbottinvestor.com) and is available in print to any shareholder who sends a request for a paper copy to: Abbott Laboratories, 100Abbott Park Road, Dept.362, AP6D2, Abbott Park, Illinois 60064-6048, attn.Investor Relations. Abbott intends to include on its website any amendment to, or waiver from, a provision of its code of ethics that applies to Abbott's principal executive officer, principal financial officer, principal accounting officer and controller that relates to any element of the code of ethics definition enumerated in Item406(b) of RegulationS-K.
ITEM11.EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION The material to be included in the 2006 Proxy Statement under the headings "Compensation of Directors" and "Executive Compensation," other than the Report of the Compensation Committee and the Performance Graph, is incorporated herein by reference. The 2006 Proxy Statement will be filed on or about March21, 2006.
ITEM12.SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS (a) Equity Compensation Plan Information (a) (b) (c) PlanCategory Numberofsecurities tobeissued uponexercise ofoutstandingoptions, warrantsandrights Weighted-average exerciseprice ofoutstandingoptions, warrantsandrights Numberofsecurities remainingavailable forfutureissuance underequity compensationplans (excludingsecurities reflectedincolumn(a)) Equity compensation plans approved by security holders 140,977,323 $ 42.71 24,058,873 (1) Equity compensation plans not approved by security holders (2) 145,488 $ 18.34 4,434,318 (3) Total 141,122,811 $ 42.69 28,493,191 (1) Abbott Laboratories 1996 Incentive Stock Program.
Benefits under the 1996 Program include stock options intended to qualify for special tax treatment under Section422 of the Internal Revenue Code ("incentive stock options"), stock options that do not qualify for that special tax treatment ("non-qualified stock options"), restricted stock, restricted stock units, stock appreciation rights, performance awards, and foreign qualified benefits. The shares that remain available for issuance under the 1996 Program may be issued in connection with any one of these benefits and may be either authorized but unissued shares or treasury shares (except that restricted stock awards may be satisfied only from treasury shares).
90 If there is a lapse, expiration, termination, or cancellation of any benefit granted under either the 1996 Program or the Abbott Laboratories 1991 Incentive Stock Program without the issuance of shares or payment of cash thereunder, or if shares are issued under any benefit under the 1996 Program or the 1991 Program and thereafter are reacquired by Abbott pursuant to rights reserved upon their issuance, or pursuant to the payment of the purchase price of shares under stock options by delivery of other common shares of Abbott, the shares subject to or reserved for that benefit, or so reacquired, may again be used for new stock options, rights, or awards of any type authorized under the 1996 Program. However, the common shares issued under the 1996 Program, which are not reacquired by Abbott pursuant to rights reserved upon their issuance or pursuant to payment of the purchase price of shares under stock options by delivery of other common shares of Abbott, may not exceed the total number of shares reserved for issuance under the 1996 Program.
The 1996 Program automatically authorizes the annual addition of Abbott common stock for use in connection with the grant of 1996 Program benefits. The Program's automatic annual addition is equal to 1.5percent of Abbott's total issued and outstanding common shares on the first day of each calendar year beginning January1, 2000.
(2) (i) Perclose,Inc. 1992 Stock Plan and the Perclose,Inc. 1997 Stock Plan.
In 1999, in connection with its merger with Perclose,Inc., Abbott assumed options outstanding under both the Perclose,Inc. 1992 Stock Plan and the Perclose, Inc. 1997 Stock Plan. As of December31, 2005, 145,488options remained outstanding under the plans. These options have a weighted-average purchase price of $18.34.
(ii) Abbott Laboratories Affiliate Employee Stock Purchase Plan.
Eligible employees of participating non-U.S. affiliates of Abbott may participate in this plan. An eligible employee may authorize payroll deductions at the rate of 1% to 10% of eligible compensation (in multiples of one percent) subject to a limit of US $12,500 during any purchase cycle.
Purchase cycles are generally six months long and usually begin on August1 and February1. On the last day of each purchase cycle, Abbott uses participant contributions to acquire Abbott common shares. The shares purchased may come from either Abbott's authorized but unissued shares or its treasury shares. The purchase price is 85% of the lower of the fair market value of the shares on that date or on the first day of that purchase cycle.
(iii) Abbott Laboratories Employee Share Ownership Plan.
Eligible employees of Abbott's affiliates in the United Kingdom may participate in this plan. Each eligible employee may contribute up to 10% of his or her salary, subject to a maximum statutory limit of 125 per month. Each month, these contributions are used to buy Abbott shares on the open market at its then current market price. The plan contains an employer matching share feature under which the participating employers purchase an Abbott common share on the open market for each share purchased by the employee with the first 1.75% of salary. Matching shares cannot be sold or transferred from the plan for a period of three years from the date of allocation. The plan is tax approved.
(iv) Abbott Canada Stock Retirement Purchase Plan.
Eligible employees of Abbott Canada may participate in the plan. Each eligible employee may contribute 2% of eligible compensation up to a maximum of $4,000 (Canadian). Abbott Canada matches employee contributions on the basis of a formula that takes into account both the amount of the employee's contributions and the employee's length of service. Contributions are used to buy Abbott common shares on the open market at its then current market price.
91 (v) Abbott Laboratories Equity-Based Award/Recognition Plan.
Abbott uses stock award plans to motivate and reward employee performance. For example, Abbott shares are awarded to employees who have been granted a patent or met other performance based criteria. Abbott purchases the shares awarded under these plans on the open market.
(3) The number of securities includes: (i) 2,021,777shares available for issuance under the Abbott Laboratories Affiliate Employee Stock Purchase Plan, (ii) 1,324,945shares available for issuance under the Abbott Laboratories Employee Share Ownership Plan, (iii) 617,786shares available for issuance under the Abbott Canada Stock Retirement Plan, and (iv) 469,810shares available for issuance under the Abbott Laboratories Equity-Based Award/Recognition Plan.
For additional information concerning the Abbott Laboratories 1996 Incentive Stock Program, see the discussion in Note10 entitled "Incentive Stock Program," of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included under Item8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data." (b) Information Concerning Security Ownership.
Incorporated herein by reference is the material under the heading "Security Ownership of Executive Officers and Directors" in the 2006 Proxy Statement. The 2006 Proxy Statement will be filed on or about March21, 2006.
ITEM13.CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS The material to be included in the 2006 Proxy Statement under the heading "Related Transactions" is incorporated herein by reference. The 2006 Proxy Statement will be filed on or about March21, 2006.
ITEM14.PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES Incorporated herein by reference is the material under the headings "Audit Fees and Non-Audit Fees" and "Policy on Audit Committee Pre-Approval of Audit and Permissible Non-Audit Services of the Independent Auditor" in the 2006 Proxy Statement. The 2006 Proxy Statement will be filed on or about March21, 2006.
92 PARTIV ITEM15.EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES Documents filed as part of this Form10-K.
Financial Statements: See Item8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data," on page45 hereof, for a list of financial statements.
Financial Statement Schedules: The required financial statement schedules are found on the pages indicated below. These schedules should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements of Abbott Laboratories and TAP Pharmaceutical ProductsInc.: Abbott Laboratories Financial Statement Schedules PageNo.
Valuation and Qualifying Accounts (ScheduleII) 96 SchedulesI, III, IV, and V are not submitted because they are not applicable or not required Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on Supplemental Schedule 97 Individual Financial Statements of businesses acquired by the registrant have been omitted pursuant to Rule3.05, paragraph(1) of RegulationS-X TAPPharmaceutical ProductsInc. Financial Statement Schedules PageNo.
Valuation and Qualifying Accounts (ScheduleII) 98 SchedulesI, III, IV, and V are not submitted because they are not applicable or not required Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on Supplemental Schedule 99 Exhibits Required by Item601 of RegulationS-K: The information called for by this paragraph is incorporated herein by reference to the Exhibit Index on pages100 through 105 of this Form10-K.
Exhibits filed (see Exhibit Index on pages100 through 105).
Financial Statement Schedules filed (pages96 and 98).
93 SIGNATURES Pursuant to the requirements of Section13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Abbott Laboratories has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
ABBOTT LABORATORIES By /s/ MILES D. WHITE Miles D. White Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer Date: February21, 2006 Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of Abbott Laboratories on February21, 2006 in the capacities indicated below.
/s/ MILES D. WHITE Miles D. White Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and Director of Abbott Laboratories (principal executive officer) /s/ ROXANNE S. AUSTIN Roxanne S. Austin Director of Abbott Laboratories /s/ RICHARD A. GONZALEZ Richard A. Gonzalez President and Chief Operating Officer, Medical Products Group and Director of Abbott Laboratories /s/ WILLIAM M. DALEY William M. Daley Director of Abbott Laboratories /s/ JEFFREY M. LEIDEN Jeffrey M. Leiden President and Chief Operating Officer, Pharmaceutical Products Group and Director of Abbott Laboratories /s/ W. JAMES FARRELL W. James Farrell Director of Abbott Laboratories 94 /s/ THOMAS C. FREYMAN Thomas C. Freyman Executive Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer (principal financial officer) /s/ H. LAURANCE FULLER H. Laurance Fuller Director of Abbott Laboratories /s/ GREG W. LINDER Greg W. Linder Vice President and Controller (principal accounting officer) /s/ JACK M. GREENBERG Jack M. Greenberg Director of Abbott Laboratories /s/ DAVID A. L. OWEN David A. L. Owen Director of Abbott Laboratories /s/ BOONE POWELL JR.
Boone Powell Jr.
Director of Abbott Laboratories /s/ W. ANN REYNOLDS W. Ann Reynolds Director of Abbott Laboratories /s/ ROY S. ROBERTS Roy S. Roberts Director of Abbott Laboratories /s/ WILLIAM D. SMITHBURG William D. Smithburg Director of Abbott Laboratories /s/ JOHN R. WALTER John R. Walter Director of Abbott Laboratories 95 ABBOTT LABORATORIES AND SUBSIDIARIES SCHEDULE II VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2005, 2004, AND 2003 (in thousands of dollars) Allowances for Doubtful Accounts and Sales Deductions Balance at Beginning of Year Provisions/ Charges to Income(a) Amounts Charged Off Net of Recoveries Balance at End of Year 2005 $ 231,704 $ 59,498 $ (87,519 ) $ 203,683 2004 259,514 66,619 (94,429 )(b) 231,704 2003 198,116 132,622 (71,224 ) 259,514 (a) Represents provisions related to allowances for doubtful accounts and net change in the allowances for sales deductions (b) 2004 amounts charged off, net of recoveries includes $18,189 allowance transferred to Hospira,Inc.
96 REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM ON SUPPLEMENTAL SCHEDULE To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of Abbott Laboratories: We have audited the consolidated financial statements of Abbott Laboratories and subsidiaries (the "Company") as of December31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, and for the years then ended, management's assessment of the effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of December31, 2005, and the effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of December31, 2005, and have issued our reports thereon dated February17, 2006; such consolidated financial statements and reports are included in your 2005 Annual Report to Shareholders and included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our audits also included the consolidated financial statement schedule of the Company listed in Item 15. This consolidated financial statement schedule is the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion based on our audits. In our opinion, such consolidated financial schedule, when considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, present fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein.
DELOITTE& TOUCHE LLP Chicago, Illinois February17, 2006 97 TAP PHARMACEUTICAL PRODUCTS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES SCHEDULE II VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2005, 2004, AND 2003 (in thousands of dollars) Allowances for Doubtful Accounts and Sales Deductions Balance at Beginning of Year Provisions/ Charges to Income(a) Amounts Charged Off Net of Recoveries Balance at End of Year 2005 $ 44,853 $ 145,684 $ (133,090 ) $ 57,447 2004 37,824 130,497 (123,468 ) 44,853 2003 27,764 150,726 (140,666 ) 37,824 (a) Represents provisions related to allowances for doubtful accounts and net change in the allowances for sales deductions 98 REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM ON SUPPLEMENTAL SCHEDULE To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of TAP Pharmaceutical Products Inc.: We have audited the consolidated financial statements of TAP Pharmaceutical Products,Inc. and subsidiaries (TAP) as of December31, 2005 and 2004, and for each of the three years in the period ended December31, 2005, and have issued our report thereon dated February3, 2006; such consolidated financial statements and report are included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our audits also included the consolidated financial statement schedule of TAP, listed in Item 15. This consolidated financial statement schedule is the responsibility of TAP's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion based on our audits. In our opinion, such consolidated financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein.
DELOITTE& TOUCHE LLP Chicago, Illinois February3, 2006 99 EXHIBIT INDEX ABBOTT LABORATORIES ANNUAL REPORT FORM 10-K 2005 Exhibits 32.1 and 32.2 are furnished herewith and should not be deemed to be "filed under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934." 10-K Exhibit Table Item No.
3.1 *Articles of Incorporation, Abbott Laboratories filed as Exhibit 3.1 to the Abbott Laboratories Quarterly Report for the quarter ended March31, 1998 on Form10-Q. (see also Exhibit 4.33, below.) 3.2 *Corporate By-Laws, Abbott Laboratories filed as Exhibit 3.1 to the Abbott Laboratories Current Report dated April22, 2005 on Form8-K.
4.1 *Abbott Laboratories Deferred Compensation Plan filed as Exhibit4 to Registration Statement 333-102179.
4.2 *Indenture dated as of October1, 1993, between Abbott Laboratories and Harris Trust and Savings Bank filed as Exhibit4.1 to the Abbott Laboratories Quarterly Report for the quarter ended September30, 1993, on Form10-Q.
4.3 *Formof Medium-Term Note, SeriesA (Fixed Rate) to be issued pursuant to the Indenture filed as Exhibit4.3 to the Abbott Laboratories Quarterly Report for the quarter ended September30, 1993, on Form10-Q.
4.4 *Formof Medium-Term Note, SeriesA (Floating Rate) to be issued pursuant to the Indenture filed as Exhibit4.4 to the Abbott Laboratories Quarterly Report for the quarter ended September30, 1993, on Form10-Q.
4.5 *Resolution of Abbott's Board of Directors filed as Exhibit4.5 to the Abbott Laboratories Quarterly Report for the quarter ended September30, 1993, on Form10-Q.
4.6 *Actions of the Authorized Officers with respect to Abbott's Medium-Term Notes, SeriesA filed as Exhibit4.7 to the Abbott Laboratories Quarterly Report for the quarter ended September30, 1993, on Form10-Q.
4.7 *Formof 6.8% Note issued pursuant to Indenture filed as Exhibit4.9 to the 1995 Abbott Laboratories Annual Report on Form10-K.
4.8 *Actions of Authorized Officers with respect to Abbott's $150,000,000 6.8% Notes filed as Exhibit4.10 to the 1995 Abbott Laboratories Annual Report on Form10-K.
4.9 *Officers' Certificate and Company Order with respect to Abbott's $150,000,000 6.8% Notes filed as Exhibit4.11 to the 1995 Abbott Laboratories Annual Report on Form10-K.
4.10 *Resolution of Abbott's Board of Directors relating to the 6.4% Notes filed as Exhibit4.12 to the 1996 Abbott Laboratories Annual Report on Form 10-K.
4.11 *Formof $50,000,000 6.4% Note issued pursuant to Indenture filed as Exhibit4.13 to the 1996 Abbott Laboratories Annual Report on Form10-K.
4.12 *Formof $200,000,000 6.4% Note issued pursuant to Indenture filed as Exhibit4.14 to the 1996 Abbott Laboratories Annual Report on Form10-K.
100 4.13 *Actions of Authorized Officers with respect to Abbott's 6.4% Notes filed as Exhibit4.15 to the 1996 Abbott Laboratories Annual Report on Form 10-K.
4.14 *Officers' Certificate and Company Order with respect to Abbott's 6.4% Notes filed as Exhibit4.16 to the 1996 Abbott Laboratories Annual Report on Form10-K.
4.15 *Formof $200,000,000 6.0% Note issued pursuant to Indenture filed as Exhibit4.2 to the Abbott Laboratories Quarterly Report for the quarter ended June30, 1998, on Form10-Q.
4.16 *Actions of Authorized Officers with respect to Abbott's 6.0% Note filed as Exhibit4.3 to the Abbott Laboratories Quarterly Report for the quarter ended June30, 1998, on Form10-Q.
4.17 *Officers' Certificate and Company Order with respect to Abbott's 6.0% Note filed as Exhibit4.4 to the Abbott Laboratories Quarterly Report for the quarter ended June30, 1998, on Form10-Q.
4.18 *Formof $200,000,000 5.40% Note issued pursuant to Indenture filed as Exhibit4.2 to the Abbott Laboratories Quarterly Report for the quarter ended September30, 1998, on Form10-Q.
4.19 *Actions of Authorized Officers with respect to Abbott's 5.40% Note filed as Exhibit4.3 to the Abbott Laboratories Quarterly Report for the quarter ended September30, 1998, on Form10-Q.
4.20 *Officers' Certificate and Company Order with respect to Abbott's 5.40% Note filed as Exhibit4.4 to the Abbott Laboratories Quarterly Report for the quarter ended September30, 1998, on Form10-Q.
4.21 *Indenture dated as of February9, 2001, between Abbott Laboratories and Bank One Trust Company, N.A. filed as Exhibit4.1 to Registration Statement 333-55446.
4.22 *Formof 5.625% Note issued pursuant to Indenture filed as Exhibit4.2 to the Abbott Laboratories Quarterly Report for the quarter ended June30, 2001, on Form10-Q.
4.23 *Actions of Authorized Officers with Respect to Abbott's 5.625% Notes filed as Exhibit4.3 to the Abbott Laboratories Quarterly Report for the quarter ended June30, 2001, on Form10-Q.
4.24 *Officers' Certificate and Company Order with respect to Abbott's 5.125% Notes and its 5.625% Notes filed as Exhibit4.4 to the Abbott Laboratories Quarterly Report for the quarter ended June30, 2001, on Form 10-Q.
4.25 *Formof 3.5% Note issued pursuant to the Indenture filed as Exhibit 4.29 to the 2003 Abbott Laboratories Annual Report on Form10-K.
4.26 *Actions of Authorized Officers with Respect to Abbott's 3.5% Notes filed as Exhibit4.30 to the 2003 Abbott Laboratories Annual Report on Form 10-K.
4.27 *Officers' Certificate and Company Order with respect to Abbott's 3.5% Notes filed as Exhibit4.31 to the 2003 Abbott Laboratories Annual Report on Form10-K.
4.28 *Formof 3.75% Note issued pursuant to the Indenture. Notes filed as Exhibit4.28 to the 2004 Abbott Laboratories Annual Report on Form10-K.
4.29 *Formof 4.35% Note issued pursuant to the Indenture. Notes filed as Exhibit4.29 to the 2004 Abbott Laboratories Annual Report on Form10-K.
101 4.30 *Actions of Authorized Officers with respect to Abbott's 3.75% Notes and 4.35% Notes. Notes filed as Exhibit4.30 to the 2004 Abbott Laboratories Annual Report on Form10-K.
4.31 *Officers' Certificate and Company Order with respect to Abbott's 3.75% Notes and 4.35% Notes. Notes filed as Exhibit4.31 to the 2004 Abbott Laboratories Annual Report on Form10-K.
4.32 *Certificate of Designations, Preferences and Rights of the SeriesA Junior Participating Preferred Stock filed as Exhibit4.1 to the Abbott Laboratories Current Report on Form8-K filed on November15, 1999.
4.33 *Rights Agreement, dated as of November11, 1999, between Abbott Laboratories and BankBoston, N.A., as Rights Agent filed as Exhibit99.1 to the Abbott Laboratories Current Report on Form8-K filed on November15, 1999.
4.34 *Amendment No. 1 to Rights Agreement, dated as of December7, 1999, between Abbott Laboratories and BankBoston, N.A., as Rights Agent filed as Exhibit99.1 to the Abbott Laboratories Current Report on Form8-K filed on December20,  1999.
4.35 *Amendment No. 2 to Rights Agreement dated as of May19, 2000 filed as Exhibit99.1 to the Abbott Laboratories Current Report on Form8-K filed on May 19, 2000.
Other debt instruments are omitted in accordance with Item 601(b)(4)(iii)(A)of Regulation S-K. Copies of such agreements will be furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission upon request.
10.1 *Supplemental Plan Abbott Laboratories Extended Disability Plan filed as an exhibit (pages50-51) to the 1992 Abbott Laboratories Annual Report on Form10-K.** 10.2 * The Abbott Laboratories 1991 Incentive Stock Program, as amended, filed as Exhibit10.2 to the 2003 Abbott Laboratories Annual Report on Form 10-K.** 10.3 *Abbott Laboratories 401(k) Supplemental Plan, as amended, filed as Exhibit10.1 to the Abbott Laboratories Current Report on Form8-K dated December9, 2005.** 10.4 *Abbott Laboratories Supplemental Pension Plan, as amended, filed as Exhibit10.2 to the Abbott Laboratories Current Report on Form8-K dated December9, 2005.** 10.5 *The 1986 Abbott Laboratories Management Incentive Plan, as amended, filed as Exhibit10.5 to the Abbott Laboratories Quarterly Report for the quarter ended June30, 2003 on Form10-Q.** 10.6 *Abbott Laboratories Non-Employee Directors' Fee Plan, as amended, filed as Exhibit10.1 to the Abbott Laboratories Current Report on Form8-K dated February21, 2006.** 10.7 *The Abbott Laboratories 1996 Incentive Stock Program, as amended, filed as Exhibit10.8 to the Abbott Laboratories Current Report on Form8-K dated February18, 2005.** 10.8 *Formof Employee Stock Option Agreement for a Non-Qualified Stock Option granted with an Incentive Stock Option under the Abbott Laboratories 1996 Incentive Stock Program, filed as Exhibit10.1 to the Abbott Laboratories Current Report on Form8-K dated August20, 2004.** 10.9 *Formof Employee Stock Option Agreement for a Non-Qualified Stock Option under the Abbott Laboratories 1996 Incentive Stock Program, filed as Exhibit10.2 to the Abbott Laboratories Current Report dated August20, 2004 on Form8-K.** 102 10.10 *Formof Employee Stock Option Agreement for an Incentive Stock Option granted with a Non-Qualified Stock Option under the Abbott Laboratories 1996 Incentive Stock Program, filed as Exhibit10.3 to the Abbott Laboratories Current Report on Form8-K dated August20, 2004.** 10.11 *Formof Employee Stock Option Agreement for an Incentive Stock Option under the Abbott Laboratories 1996 Incentive Stock Program, filed as Exhibit 10.4 to the Abbott Laboratories Current Report on Form8-K dated August20, 2004.** 10.12 *Formof Employee Stock Option Agreement for a Replacement Stock Option under the Abbott Laboratories 1996 Incentive Stock Program, filed as Exhibit 10.5 to the Abbott Laboratories Current Report on Form8-K dated August20, 2004.** 10.13 *Formof Employee Restricted Stock Agreement under the Abbott Laboratories 1996 Incentive Stock Program, filed as Exhibit10.6 to the Abbott Laboratories Current Report on Form8-K dated August20, 2004.** 10.14 *Formof Employee Restricted Stock Unit Agreement under the Abbott Laboratories 1996 Incentive Stock Program, filed as Exhibit10.7 to the Abbott Laboratories Current Report on Form8-K dated August20, 2004.** 10.15 *Formof Non-Employee Director Stock Option Agreement under the Abbott Laboratories 1996 Incentive Stock Program, filed as Exhibit10.8 to the Abbott Laboratories Current Report on Form8-K dated August20, 2004.** 10.16 *Formof Non-Employee Director Restricted Stock Unit Agreement under Abbott Laboratories 1996 Incentive Stock Program, filed as Exhibit10.2 to the Abbott Laboratories Current Report on Form8-K dated December10, 2004.** 10.17 *1998 Abbott Laboratories Performance Incentive Plan filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Abbott Laboratories Quarterly Report for the quarter ended March 31, 1998 on Form10-Q.** 10.18 *Rulesfor the 1998 Abbott Laboratories Performance Incentive Plan, filed as Exhibit10.17 to the 2004 Abbott Laboratories Annual Report on Form10-K.** 10.19 *Formof Employee Stock Option Agreement for a Non-Qualified Stock Option granted with an Incentive Stock Option under the Abbott Laboratories 1996 Incentive Stock Program on or after February18, 2005, filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Abbott Laboratories Current Report on Form8-K dated February18, 2005.** 10.20 *Formof Employee Stock Option Agreement for a new Non-Qualified Stock Option under the Abbott Laboratories 1996 Incentive Stock Program granted on or after February18, 2005, filed as Exhibit10.2 to the Abbott Laboratories Current Report on Form8-K dated February18, 2005.** 10.21 *Formof Employee Stock Option Agreement for an Incentive Stock Option granted with a Non-Qualified Stock Option under the Abbott Laboratories 1996 Incentive Stock Program on or after February18, 2005, filed as Exhibit10.3 to the Abbott Laboratories Current Report on Form8-K dated February18, 2005.** 10.22 *Formof Employee Stock Option Agreement for an Incentive Stock Option under the Abbott Laboratories 1996 Incentive Stock Program granted on or after February18, 2005, filed as Exhibit10.4 to the Abbott Laboratories Current Report on Form8-K dated February18, 2005.** 103 10.23 *Formof Employee Restricted Stock Agreement under the Abbott Laboratories 1996 Incentive Stock Program, filed as Exhibit10.5 to the Abbott Laboratories Current Report on Form8-K dated February18, 2005.** 10.24 *Formof Employee Restricted Stock Unit Agreement under the Abbott Laboratories 1996 Incentive Stock Program, filed as Exhibit10.6 to the Abbott Laboratories Current Report on Form8-K dated February18, 2005.** 10.25 *Formof Non-Employee Director Stock Option Agreement under the Abbott Laboratories 1996 Incentive Stock Program granted on or after February18, 2005, filed as Exhibit10.7 to the Abbott Laboratories Current Report on Form 8-K dated February18, 2005.** 10.26 *Formof Agreement Between Abbott Laboratories and each of the named executive officers, regarding Change in Control filed as Exhibit10.6 to the Abbott Laboratories Quarterly Report for the quarter ended June30, 2003 on Form10-Q.** 10.27 Base Salary of Named Executive Officers.** 10.28 Transaction Agreement between Boston Scientific Corporation and Abbott Laboratories, dated as of January8, 2006.
10.29 Amendment No. 1 to Transaction Agreement dated as of January16, 2006, between Boston Scientific Corporation and Abbott Laboratories.
10.30 Amendment No. 2 to Transaction Agreement dated as of January16, 2006, between Boston Scientific Corporation and Abbott Laboratories.
10.31 Formof Time Sharing Agreement between Abbott Laboratories,Inc. and M.D.White, J.M.Leiden, R.A.Gonzalez, and T.C. Freyman. ** 10.32 *Form of Performance Restricted Stock Agreement for an award of performance restricted stock under Section10 of the Abbott Laboratories 1996 Incentive Stock Program granted on or after February17, 2006, filed as Exhibit10.1 to the Abbott Laboratories Current Report on Form8-K dated February16, 2006.** 10.33 *Form of Performance Restricted Stock Agreement for an award of performance restricted stock under Section11 of the Abbott Laboratories 1996 Incentive Stock Program granted on or after February17, 2006, filed as Exhibit 10.2 to the Abbott Laboratories Current Report on Form8-K dated February16, 2006.** 10.34 *Form of Performance Restricted Stock Unit Agreement for an award of performance restricted stock units under the Abbott Laboratories 1996 Incentive Stock Program granted on or after February17, 2006, filed as Exhibit10.3 to the Abbott Laboratories Current Report on Form8-K dated February16, 2006.** 10.35 *Form of Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement for an award of non-qualified stock options under the Abbott Laboratories 1996 Incentive Stock Program granted on or after February17, 2006, filed as Exhibit10.4 to the Abbott Laboratories Current Report on Form8-K dated February16, 2006.** 10.36 *Form of Restricted Stock Unit Agreement for an award of restricted stock units under the Abbott Laboratories 1996 Incentive Stock Program granted on or after February17, 2006, filed as Exhibit 10.5 to the Abbott Laboratories Current Report on Form8-K dated February16, 2006.** 104 12 Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges.
21 Subsidiaries of Abbott Laboratories.
23.1 Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm.
23.2 Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm.
31.1 Certification of Chief Executive Officer Required by Rule13a-14(a)(17 CFR 240.13a-14(a)).
31.2 Certification of Chief Financial Officer Required by Rule13a-14(a)(17 CFR 240.13a-14(a)).
32.1 Certification of Chief Executive Officer Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
32.2 Certification of Chief Financial Officer Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
99.1 Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements.
The 2006 Abbott Laboratories Proxy Statement will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission under separate cover on or about March21, 2006.
* Incorporated herein by reference. Commission file number 1-2189.
** Denotes management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement required to be filed as an exhibit hereto.
Abbott will furnish copies of any of the above exhibits to a shareholder upon written request to the Corporate Secretary, Abbott Laboratories, 100 Abbott Park Road, Abbott Park, Illinois 60064-6400.