http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1800/000110465907013496/a07-1583_110k.htm
63929157671.0
ABT
2008-02-19
10-K
ABT_2008-02-19_10-K.txt

10-K 1 a07-1583_110k.htm ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 AND 15(D) UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION WASHINGTON, D. C. 20549 FORM10-K (MARK ONE) x ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION13 OR 15(d)OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 OR o TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION13 OR 15(d)OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 For the fiscal year ended December31, 2006 Commission file number 1-2189 Abbott Laboratories An   Illinois Corporation 36-0698440 (I.R.S. employer identification   number) 100 Abbott   Park Road (847) 937-6100 Abbott   Park, Illinois 60064-6400 (telephone number) Securities Registered Pursuant to Section12(b)of the Act: NameofEachExchange TitleofEachClass onWhichRegistered Common Shares,   Without Par Value New   York Stock Exchange Chicago   Stock Exchange Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule405 of the Securities Act.
Yes  No Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section13 or 15(d)of the Act.
Yes No  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1)has filed all reports required to be filed by Section13 or 15(d)of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2)has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90days.
Yes  No Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of RegulationS-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrants knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in PartIII of this Form10-K or any amendment to this Form10-K. [  ] Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, or a non-accelerated filer. See definition of accelerated filer and large accelerated filer in Rule12b-2 of the Exchange Act.
Large Accelerated Filer  Accelerated Filer Non-accelerated Filer Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule12b-2 of the Exchange Act).
Yes No  The aggregate market value of the 1,465,928,862 shares of voting stock held by nonaffiliates of the registrant, computed by reference to the closing price as reported on the New York Stock Exchange, as of the last business day of Abbott Laboratories most recently completed second fiscal quarter (June30, 2006), was approximately $63,929,157,671. Abbott has no non-voting common equity.
Number of common shares outstanding as of January31, 2007: 1,543,073,501 DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE Portions of the 2007 Abbott Laboratories Proxy Statement are incorporated by reference into PartIII. The Proxy Statement will be filed on or about March19, 2007.
PARTI ITEM1.
BUSINESS GENERAL DEVELOPMENT OF BUSINESS Abbott Laboratories is an Illinois corporation, incorporated in 1900. Abbotts* principal business is the discovery, development, manufacture, and sale of a broad and diversified line of health care products.
FINANCIAL INFORMATION RELATING TO INDUSTRY SEGMENTS, GEOGRAPHICAREAS,ANDCLASSES OF SIMILAR PRODUCTS Incorporated herein by reference is Note6 entitled Segment and Geographic Area Information of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included under Item8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.
NARRATIVE DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS Abbott has four reportable revenue segments: Pharmaceutical Products, Diagnostic Products, Nutritional Products, and Vascular Products. Abbott also has a 50percent owned joint venture, TAP Pharmaceutical Products Inc. During the first half of 2006, Abbott acquired the vascular intervention and endovascular solutions businesses of Guidant Corporation. Effective with this acquisition, Abbotts base vascular business and the acquired Guidant businesses are reported as the Vascular Products segment.
In December2006, Abbott acquired Kos Pharmaceuticals,Inc., a specialty pharmaceutical company that developed and marketed proprietary medications for the treatment of cardiovascular, metabolic and respiratory diseases.
In January2007, Abbott announced that it had entered into a definitive agreement to sell Abbotts core laboratory diagnostic businesses, including point of care, to General Electric Company (GE) for $8.13 billion, in cash. This divestiture does not include Abbotts Molecular Diagnostics and Diabetes Care businesses. The sale is expected to close in the first half of 2007 and is subject to customary closing conditions, including regulatory approvals.
* As used throughout the text of this report on Form10-K, the term Abbott refers to Abbott Laboratories, an Illinois corporation, or Abbott Laboratories and its consolidated subsidiaries, as the context requires.
1 Pharmaceutical Products The Pharmaceutical Products segments products include a broad line of adult and pediatric pharmaceuticals manufactured, marketed and sold worldwide, which are sold primarily on the prescription, or recommendation, of physicians. In 2006, Abbott announced a collaboration with AstraZeneca to co-develop and market a fixed-dose combination lipid management therapy of Crestor (rosuvastatin/AstraZeneca) with either Tricor (Abbotts fenofibrate) or Abbotts next generation fenofibrate, ABT335.
The principal products included in the Pharmaceutical Products segment are:  TriCor, for the treatment of dyslipidemia;  Niaspan, for the treatment of high cholesterol;  HUMIRA, for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis, psoriatic arthritis and ankylosing spondylitis;  the anti-infectives clarithromycin (sold under the trademarks Biaxin, Klacid and Klaricid), Omnicef, an oral cephalosporin antibiotic, tosufloxacin, sold in Japan under the trademark Tosuxacin, and various forms of the antibiotic erythromycin, sold primarily as PCE or polymer-coated erythromycin, Erythrocin, and E.E.S.;  Synthroid, for the treatment of hypothyroidism;  Meridia and Reductil (also marketed as Reductyl and Reductal) for the treatment of obesity;  the anti-virals Kaletra and Norvir, protease inhibitors for the treatment of HIV infection;  Depakote, an agent for the treatment of epilepsy and bipolar disorder and the prevention of migraines;  the anesthesia products sevoflurane (sold in the United States under the trademark Ultane and outside of the United States primarily under the trademark Sevorane and in a few other markets as Ultane), isoflurane, and enflurane;  the specialty injectables Zemplar, for the treatment of hyperparathyroidism, Calcijex, and Survanta;  Lupron, also marketed as Lucrin, and Lupron Depot used for the palliative treatment of advanced prostate cancer, treatment of endometriosis and central precocious puberty, and for the preoperative treatment of patients with anemia caused by uterine fibroids;  Ogastro, also marketed as Prevacid (lansoprazole), a proton pump inhibitor for the short-term treatment of duodenal ulcers, gastric ulcers, and erosive esophagitis; and  various cardiovascular products, including Mavik (also marketed as Goptin), Isoptin and Tarka for the treatment of hypertension.
The Pharmaceutical Products segment markets its products worldwide and generally sells its products directly to wholesalers, government agencies, health care facilities, and independent retailers from Abbott-owned distribution centers and public warehouses. Certain products are co-marketed or co-promoted with other companies. Some of these products are marketed and distributed through distributors. This segment directs its primary marketing efforts toward securing the prescription of Abbotts brand of products by physicians. Managed care providers (for example, health maintenance organizations and pharmacy benefit managers) and state and federal governments and agencies (for example, the Department of Veterans Affairs and the Department of Defense) are also important customers.
2 Competition in the Pharmaceutical Products segment is generally from other health care and pharmaceutical companies. The search for technological innovations in pharmaceutical products is a significant aspect of competition in this segment. The introduction of new products by competitors and changes in medical practices and procedures can result in product obsolescence in the Pharmaceutical Products segment. Price can also be a factor. In addition, the substitution of generic drugs for the brand prescribed has increased competitive pressures on pharmaceutical products which are off-patent.
Diagnostic Products The Diagnostic Products segments products include diagnostic systems and tests for blood banks, hospitals, commercial laboratories, physicians offices, alternate-care testing sites, plasma protein therapeutic companies, and consumers.
The principal products included in the Diagnostic Products segment are:  immunoassay systems, including ARCHITECT, AxSYM, IMx, Abbott Quantum, Commander, Abbott PRISM, TDx, and TDxFlx;  chemistry systems such as ARCHITECT c8000 and Aeroset;  assays used for screening and/or diagnosis for drugs of abuse, cancer, therapeutic drug monitoring, fertility, physiological diseases, and infectious diseases such as hepatitis and HIV;  the Vysis product line of genomic-based tests, including the PathVysion HER-2 DNA probe kit and the UroVysion bladder cancer recurrence kit;  a full line of hematology systems and reagents known as the Cell-Dyn series;  the product line of FreeStyle blood glucose monitoring meters, test strips, data management software and accessories for people with diabetes, including FreeStyleFreedom, FreeStyle, FreeStyle Flash (sold in certain international markets as FreeStyle Mini), FreeStyle Papillon, and FreeStyle Tracker, and other blood glucose monitoring meters, test strips, data management software and accessories, including Precision Xtra, MediSense Optium, Precision PCx, Precision Q.I.D., MediSense II, TrueMeasure strips, Precision Link Direct, and Precision Sure-Dose insulin syringes; and  the i-STAT point-of-care diagnostic systems and tests for blood analysis, including the i-STAT system.
In addition, under its strategic alliance with Celera Diagnostics, a business of the Celera Genomics Group of Applera Corporation, the Diagnostic Products segment develops, manufactures and markets a broad range of in vitro molecular diagnostic products for disease detection, disease progression monitoring, and therapy selection. Through a sales and marketing agreement with Enfer Scientific Ltd., the Diagnostic Products segment also distributes diagnostic tests in Europe and Japan that are used to detect bovine spongiform encephalopathy (BSE) in cattle.
The Diagnostic Products segment markets its products worldwide. These products are generally marketed and sold directly to hospitals, laboratories, clinics, and physicians offices from Abbott-owned distribution centers and public warehouses. Outside the United States, sales are made either directly to customers or through distributors, depending on the market served. Blood glucose monitoring meters and test strips for people with diabetes are also marketed and sold over-the-counter to consumers.
The Diagnostic Products segments products are subject to competition in technological innovation, price, convenience of use, service, instrument warranty provisions, product performance, long-term supply contracts, and product potential for overall cost-effectiveness and productivity gains. Some products in this segment can be subject to rapid product obsolescence. Although Abbott has benefited from technological 3 advantages of certain of its current products, these advantages may be reduced or eliminated as competitors introduce new products. Certain of this segments products are subject to restrictions on their sale in the United States under a consent decree entered in 1999. The consent decree is discussed in the section captioned, Regulation on pages 7 through 9 .
Nutritional Products The Nutritional Products segments products include a broad line of pediatric and adult nutritionals manufactured, marketed and sold worldwide. These products are sold directly to consumers, often on the recommendation or prescription of physicians or other health care professionals, and to health care facilities and government agencies. The segment also includes specialty pharmaceuticals.
Principal products in the Nutritional Products segment include:  various forms of prepared infant formula and follow-on formula, including SimilacAdvance, Similac, Similac With Iron, Similac2, Isomil Advance, Isomil, Isomil2, Alimentum, Similac NeoSure, Gain, and Abbott Grow;  adult and other pediatric nutritional products, including Ensure, Ensure Plus, Ensure High Protein, Glucerna, ProSure, PediaSure, and Pedialyte;  nutritional products used in enteral feeding in health care institutions, including Jevity, Osmolite, and Nepro;  the pharmaceutical product Survanta; and  Zone Perfect bars and the EAS family of nutritional brands, including AdvantEdge and Myoplex.
The Nutritional Products segments products are distributed from Abbott-owned distribution centers or public warehouses.
The segment generally sells nutritional products directly to retailers, wholesalers, health care facilities, and government agencies. Primary marketing efforts for nutritional products are directed toward securing the recommendation of Abbotts brand of products by physicians or other health care professionals. In addition, certain nutritional products sold as Isomil Advance, Gain, Abbott Grow, PediaSure, Pedialyte, Ensure, Glucerna, Zone Perfect, and EAS are promoted directly to the public by consumer marketing efforts. These products are generally sold directly to retailers and wholesalers.
The segments pharmaceutical products are generally marketed directly to physicians, health care facilities, and government agencies and sold through wholesalers. Primary marketing efforts for this segments pharmaceutical products are directed at securing the prescription of these products by physicians.
Competition for nutritional products in the segment is generally other diversified consumer and health care manufacturers. Competitive factors include consumer advertising, formulation, packaging, scientific innovation, price, and availability of private label product forms. Competition for pharmaceutical products in the segment is generally from other health care and pharmaceutical companies. A significant aspect of competition is the search for technological innovations. The introduction of new products by competitors and changes in medical practices and procedures can result in product obsolescence. In addition, the substitution of generic drugs for the brand prescribed has increased competitive pressures on pharmaceutical products which are off-patent.
4 Vascular Products The Vascular Products segments products include a broad line of coronary, endovascular and vessel closure devices used in the treatment of vascular disease. In April2006, Abbott acquired Guidant Corporations vascular intervention and endovascular solutions businesses.
The principal products included in the Vascular Products segment are:  Multi-Link Vision, and Multi-Link Mini Vision, coronary metallic stents;  Xience V, a next-generation drug-eluting coronary stent system developed on the Multi-Link Vision platform;  BMW and Asahi coronary guidewires;  StarClose, a vessel closure device;  Acculink/Accunet and Xact/Emboshield, carotid stent systems; and  Voyager balloon dilation products.
The Vascular Products segment markets its products worldwide. These products are generally marketed and sold directly to hospitals from Abbott-owned distribution centers and public warehouses. Outside the United States, sales are made either directly to customers or through distributors, depending on the market served.
The Vascular Products segments products are subject to competition in technological innovation, price, convenience of use, service, product performance, long-term supply contracts, and product potential for overall cost-effectiveness and productivity gains. Some products in this segment can be subject to rapid product obsolescence. Although Abbott has benefited from technological advantages of certain of its current products, these advantages may be reduced or eliminated as competitors introduce new products.
TAP Pharmaceutical Products Inc.
Under an agreement between Abbott and Takeda Pharmaceutical Company, Limited of Japan (Takeda), TAP Pharmaceutical Products Inc. (owned 50percent by Abbott and 50percent by an affiliate of Takeda), together with its subsidiary, TAP Pharmaceuticals Inc. (TAP), develops and markets pharmaceutical products primarily for the United States. TAP markets Lupron, an LH-RH analog, and Lupron Depot, a sustained release form of Lupron, in the United States. Lupron and Lupron Depot are used principally for the palliative treatment of advanced prostate cancer, for the treatment of endometriosis and central precocious puberty and for the preoperative treatment of patients with anemia caused by uterine fibroids. TAP also markets Prevacid (lansoprazole), a proton pump inhibitor. Its principal indications are for short-term treatment of gastroesophageal reflux disease, duodenal ulcers, gastric ulcers, and erosive esophagitis.
TAPs products are generally sold directly to physicians, retailers, wholesalers, health care facilities, and government agencies. In most cases, they are distributed for TAP from Abbott-owned distribution centers. Primary marketing efforts for pharmaceutical products are directed toward securing the prescription of TAPs brand of products by physicians. Managed care purchasers (for example, health maintenance organizations and pharmacy benefit managers) are increasingly important customers.
Competition is generally from other pharmaceutical companies. A significant aspect of competition is the search for technological innovations. The introduction of new products by competitors and changes in medical practices and procedures can result in product obsolescence. Price can also be a factor. In addition, the availability of over-the-counter drugs or the substitution of generic drugs for the brand prescribed has increased competitive pressures.
5 INFORMATION WITH RESPECT TO ABBOTTS BUSINESS IN GENERAL Sources and Availability of Raw Materials Abbott purchases, in the ordinary course of business, raw materials and supplies essential to Abbotts operations from numerous suppliers in the United States and abroad. There have been no recent significant availability problems or supply shortages.
Patents, Trademarks, and Licenses Abbott is aware of the desirability for patent and trademark protection for its products. Accordingly, where possible, patents and trademarks are sought and obtained for Abbotts products in the United States and all countries of major marketing interest to Abbott. Abbott owns and is licensed under a substantial number of patents and patent applications. Principal trademarks and the products they cover are discussed in the Narrative Description of Business on pages 1 through5. These, and various patents which expire during the period 2007 to 2026, in the aggregate are believed to be of material importance in the operation of Abbotts business. Abbott believes that no single patent, license, trademark (or related group of patents, licenses, or trademarks), except for those related to adalimumab (which is sold under the trademark HUMIRA), are material in relation to Abbotts business as a whole. The United States composition of matter patents covering adalimumab will expire in 2016. In addition, the following patents, licenses, and trademarks are significant for Abbotts Pharmaceutical Products segment: those related to clarithromycin (which is sold under the trademarks Biaxin, Klacid, and Klaricid), those related to divalproex sodium (which is sold under the trademark Depakote), those related to lansoprazole (which is sold under the trademarks Prevacid and Ogastro), those related to cefdinir (which is sold under the trademark Omnicef), those related to lopinavir/ritonavir (which is sold under the trademark Kaletra), those related to fenofibrate (which is sold under the trademark TriCor), and those related to sevoflurane (which is sold under the trademarks Sevorane and Ultane). The United States composition of matter patent covering clarithromycin is licensed from Taisho Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. of Tokyo, Japan, and expired in 2005. The United States composition of matter patents covering divalproex sodium will expire in 2008. The United States composition of matter patent covering lansoprazole is licensed by TAP from Takeda and will expire in 2009. The United States composition of matter patent covering lopinavir will expire in 2015. The United States composition of matter patents covering ritonavir will expire in 2015. The United States composition of matter patent covering lopinavir/ritonavir will expire in 2016. The United States composition of matter patent covering cefdinir is licensed from Astellas Corporation and expires in 2007. The United States crystal form of cefdinir is licensed from Astellas Corporation and expires is 2011. The principal United States non-composition of matter patents covering the fenofibrate products will expire in 2009, 2011, 2018, and 2020. The principal non-composition of matter patents covering sevoflurane in the Pharmaceutical Products segments major markets will expire in 2018. Litigation involving Abbotts patents covering adalimumab, cefdinir, clarithromycin, divalproex sodium, and sevoflurane, as well as litigation involving patents used in the operation of Abbotts Vascular Products segment, is discussed in Legal Proceedings on pages16 and 17.
Although the expiration of a composition of matter patent may lead to increased competition, in most cases Abbott owns or has a license to other patents that expire after the composition of matter patent related to particular formulations, uses, or processes for manufacturing the pharmaceutical. These non-composition of matter patents and Abbotts other intellectual property, along with such other factors as a competitors need to obtain regulatory approvals prior to marketing a competitive product and the nature of the market, may allow Abbott to continue to maintain exclusivity or have other commercial advantages after the expiration of the composition of matter patent.
6 Seasonal Aspects, Customers, Backlog, and Renegotiation There are no significant seasonal aspects to Abbotts business. The incidence of certain infectious diseases which occur at various times in different areas of the world does, however, affect the demand for Abbotts anti-infective products. Orders for Abbotts products are generally filled on a current basis, and order backlog is not material to Abbotts business. Abbott has no single customer that, if the customer were lost, would have a material adverse effect on Abbott. No material portion of Abbotts business is subject to renegotiation of profits or termination of contracts at the election of the government.
Research and Development Abbott spent $2,255,271,000 in 2006, $1,821,175,000 in 2005, and $1,696,753,000 in 2004 on research to discover and develop new products and processes and to improve existing products and processes. The majority of research and development expenditures is concentrated on pharmaceutical products.
Environmental Matters Abbott believes that its operations comply in all material respects with applicable laws and regulations concerning environmental protection. Regulations under federal and state environmental laws impose stringent limitations on emissions and discharges to the environment from various manufacturing operations. Abbotts capital and operating expenditures for pollution control in 2006 were approximately $8million and $58million, respectively. Capital and operating expenditures for pollution control in 2007 are estimated to be $6million and $62million, respectively.
Abbott has been identified as one of many potentially responsible parties in investigations and/or remediations at several locations in the United States including Puerto Rico under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act, commonly known as Superfund. Abbott is also engaged in remediation at several other sites, some of which are owned by Abbott, in cooperation with the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) or similar agencies. While it is not feasible to predict with certainty the final costs related to those investigations and remediation activities, Abbott believes that such costs, together with other expenditures to maintain compliance with applicable laws and regulations concerning environmental protection, should not have a material adverse effect on Abbotts financial position, cash flows, or operations.
Employees Abbott employed approximately 66,663 persons as of December31, 2006.
Regulation The development, manufacture, sale, and distribution of Abbotts products are subject to comprehensive government regulation. Government regulation by various federal, state, and local agencies, which includes detailed inspection of, and controls over, research and laboratory procedures, clinical investigations, product approvals and manufacturing, marketing and promotion, sampling, distribution, record keeping, storage, and disposal practices, and achieving compliance with these regulations, substantially increases the time, difficulty, and costs incurred in obtaining and maintaining the approval to market newly developed and existing products. Government regulatory actions can result in delay in the release of products, seizure or recall of products, suspension or revocation of the authority necessary for their production and sale, and other civil or criminal sanctions. In addition, governmental regulatory agencies require prescription drug and medical device manufacturers to pay fees, such as application, product, and establishment fees.
7 Abbott is a party to a consent decree entered in 1999 that requires Abbott to ensure its diagnostics manufacturing processes in Lake County, Illinois conform with the FDAs Quality System Regulation and restricts the sale in the United States of certain products in the Diagnostics Product segment. In 2003, the FDA concluded that those operations were in substantial conformity with that regulation. Abbott is introducing new diagnostics products manufactured at its Lake County, Illinois facilities and continuing the process of reintroducing products removed from the market as a result of the consent decree.
International operations are also subject to a significant degree of government regulation and country-specific rulesand regulations. Many countries, directly or indirectly, through reimbursement limitations, control the selling price of most health care products. Furthermore, many countries limit the importation of raw materials and finished products.
Continuing studies of the utilization, safety, efficacy, and outcomes of health care products and their components are being conducted by industry, government agencies, and others. Such studies, which employ increasingly sophisticated methods and techniques, can call into question the utilization, safety, and efficacy of previously marketed products and in some cases have resulted, and may in the future result, in the discontinuance of marketing of such products and may give rise to claims for damages from persons who believe they have been injured as a result of their use.
Access to and the cost of human health care products continues to be a subject of investigation and action by governmental agencies, legislative bodies, and private organizations in the United States and other countries. In the United States, most states have enacted generic substitution legislation requiring or permitting a dispensing pharmacist to substitute a different manufacturers version of a pharmaceutical product for the one prescribed. In 2006, a prescription drug benefit was implemented under the Medicare program, providing eligible individuals with greater access to prescription drugs. Increases in sales volume may be offset by federal government efforts to manage the costs of the Medicare program. In addition, the federal government follows a diagnosis-related group (DRG) payment system for certain institutional services provided under Medicare or Medicaid and has implemented a prospective payment system (PPS) for services delivered in hospital outpatient, nursing home, and home health settings. DRG and PPS entitle a health care facility to a fixed reimbursement based on diagnosis rather than actual costs incurred in patient treatment, thereby increasing the incentive for the facility to limit or control expenditures for many health care products. Under federal law, manufacturers must pay certain statutorily-prescribed rebates to state Medicaid programs on prescription drugs reimbursed under state Medicaid plans. In addition, a majority of states are seeking additional rebates. The Veterans Health Care Act of 1992 requires manufacturers to extend additional discounts on pharmaceutical products to various federal agencies, including the Department of Veterans Affairs, Department of Defense, Public Health Service entities and institutions, as well as certain other covered entities.
In the United States, governmental cost containment efforts have extended to the federally funded Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants, and Children (WIC). All states are mandated to have in place a cost containment program for infant formula. As a result, states obtain rebates from manufacturers of infant formula whose products are used in the program through competitive bidding.
Abbott expects debate to continue during 2007 at both the federal and the state level over the availability, method of delivery, and payment for health care products and services. Abbott believes that if legislation is enacted, it could have the effect of reducing prices, or reducing the rate of price increases, for health care products and services.
Efforts to reduce health care costs are also being made in the private sector. Health care providers have responded by instituting various cost reduction and containment measures.
8 It is not possible to predict the extent to which Abbott or the health care industry in general might be affected by the matters discussed above.
INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS Abbott markets products in approximately 130countries through affiliates and distributors. Most of the products discussed in the preceding sections of this report are also sold outside the United States. In addition, certain products of a local nature and variations of product lines to meet local regulatory requirements and marketing preferences are manufactured and marketed to customers outside the United States. International operations are subject to certain additional risks inherent in conducting business outside the United States, including price and currency exchange controls, changes in currency exchange rates, limitations on foreign participation in local enterprises, expropriation, nationalization, and other governmental action.
INTERNET INFORMATION Copies of Abbotts Annual Report on Form10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form10-Q, Current Reports on Form8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section13(a)or 15(d)of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are available free of charge through Abbotts investor relations website (www.abbottinvestor.com) as soon as reasonably practicable after Abbott electronically files the material with, or furnishes it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Abbotts corporate governance guidelines, outline of directorship qualifications, code of business conduct and the charters of Abbotts audit committee, compensation committee, nominations and governance committee, and public policy committee are all available on Abbotts investor relations website (www.abbottinvestor.com) or by sending a request for a paper copy to: Abbott Laboratories, 100 Abbott Park Road, Dept.362, AP6D2, Abbott Park, Illinois 60064-6048, attn. Investor Relations.
9 ITEM1A.
RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information in this report, the following risk factors should be considered before deciding to invest in any of Abbotts securities. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to Abbott, or risks Abbott currently considers immaterial, could also affect Abbotts actual results. Abbotts business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks.
Abbott may acquire other businesses, license rights to technologies or products, form alliances, or dispose of or spin-off businesses, which could cause it to incur significant expenses and could negatively affect profitability.
Abbott may pursue acquisitions, technology licensing arrangements, and strategic alliances, or dispose of or spin-off some of its businesses, as part of its business strategy. Abbott may not complete these transactions in a timely manner, on a cost-effective basis, or at all, and may not realize the expected benefits. If Abbott is successful in making an acquisition, the products and technologies that are acquired may not be successful or may require significantly greater resources and investments than originally anticipated. Abbott may not be able to integrate acquisitions successfully into its existing business and could incur or assume significant debt and unknown or contingent liabilities. Abbott could also experience negative effects on its reported results of operations from acquisition or disposition-related charges, amortization of expenses related to intangibles and charges for impairment of long-term assets. These effects could cause a deterioration of Abbotts credit rating and result in increased borrowing costs and interest expense.
Abbott holds a significant investment in Boston Scientific and is subject to market and credit risk.
On April21, 2006, in connection with Abbotts acquisition of the vascular intervention and endovascular solutions businesses of Guidant Corporation, Abbott purchased 64.6million shares of Boston Scientific stock for $1.4billion and loaned BSC International Holding, Limited (a wholly-owned subsidiary of Boston Scientific) $900million on a subordinated basis. As long as Abbott holds the shares, Abbott will have a substantial undiversified equity investment in Boston Scientific and, therefore, will be subject to the risk of changes in the market value of those shares. Until October2007, Abbott generally may not, in any one month period, sell more than approximately 5.4million shares. Additionally, Abbott is required to dispose of these shares no later than October31, 2008. As long as the loan is outstanding, Abbott will be a general unsecured creditor of Boston Scientific with respect to the $900million loan and, as such, is subject to credit risk.
The expiration or loss of patent protection and licenses may affect Abbotts future revenues and operating income.
Many of Abbotts businesses rely on patent and trademark and other intellectual property protection. Although most of the challenges to Abbotts intellectual property have come from other businesses, governments may also challenge intellectual property protections. To the extent Abbotts intellectual property is successfully challenged, invalidated, or circumvented or to the extent it does not allow Abbott to compete effectively, Abbotts business will suffer. To the extent that countries do not enforce Abbotts intellectual property rights or to the extent that countries require compulsory licensing of its intellectual property, Abbotts future revenues and operating income will be reduced. Abbotts principal patents and trademarks are described in greater detail in the sections captioned, Patents, Trademarks, and Licenses and Financial Review, and litigation regarding these patents is described in the section captioned Legal Proceedings.
10 Competitors intellectual property may prevent Abbott from selling its products or have a material adverse effect on Abbotts future profitability and financial condition.
Competitors may claim that an Abbott product infringes upon their intellectual property. Resolving an intellectual property infringement claim can be costly and time consuming and may require Abbott to enter into royalty or license agreements. If this should be necessary, Abbott cannot guarantee that it would be able to obtain royalty or license agreements on commercially reasonable terms. A successful claim of patent or other intellectual property infringement could subject Abbott to significant damages or an injunction preventing the manufacture, sale or use of affected Abbott products. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on Abbotts profitability and financial condition.
Abbott is subject to cost-containment efforts that could cause a reduction in future revenues and operating income.
In the United States and other countries, Abbotts businesses have experienced downward pressure on product pricing. Cost-containment efforts by the government and private organizations are described in greater detail in the section captioned Regulation.
To the extent these cost containment efforts are not offset by greater patient access to healthcare or other factors, Abbotts future revenues and operating income will be reduced.
Abbott is subject to numerous governmental regulations and it can be costly to comply with these regulations and to develop compliant products and processes.
Abbotts products are subject to rigorous regulation by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, and numerous other national, supranational, federal and state authorities. The process of obtaining regulatory approvals to market a drug or medical device can be costly and time-consuming, and approvals might not be granted for future products, or additional indications or uses of existing products, on a timely basis, if at all. Delays in the receipt of, or failure to obtain approvals for, future products, or new indications and uses, could result in delayed realization of product revenues and in substantial additional costs.
In addition, no assurance can be given that Abbott will remain in compliance with applicable FDA and other regulatory requirements once clearance or approval has been obtained for a product. These requirements include, among other things, regulations regarding manufacturing practices, product labeling and advertising and postmarketing reporting, including adverse event reports and field alerts due to manufacturing quality concerns. Many of Abbotts facilities and procedures and those of Abbotts suppliers are subject to ongoing regulation, including periodic inspection by the FDA and other regulatory authorities. Abbott must incur expense and spend time and effort to ensure compliance with these complex regulations. Possible regulatory actions could include warning letters, fines, damages, injunctions, civil penalties, recalls, seizures of Abbotts products and criminal prosecution. These actions could result in, among other things, substantial modifications to Abbotts business practices and operations; refunds, recalls or seizures of Abbotts products; a total or partial shutdown of production in one or more of Abbotts facilities while Abbott or Abbotts suppliers remedy the alleged violation; the inability to obtain future pre-market clearances or approvals; and withdrawals or suspensions of current products from the market. Any of these events could disrupt Abbotts business and have a material adverse effect on Abbotts revenues, profitability and financial condition.
Laws and regulations affecting government benefit programs could impose new obligations on Abbott, require Abbott to change its business practices, and restrict its operations in the future.
Abbotts industry is also subject to various federal, state and international laws and regulations pertaining to government benefit program reimbursement, price reporting and regulation, and health care fraud and abuse, including anti-kickback and false claims laws, the Medicaid Rebate Statute, the Veterans Health Care Act and individual state laws relating to pricing and sales and marketing practices. Violations 11 of these laws may be punishable by criminal and/or civil sanctions, including, in some instances, substantial fines, imprisonment and exclusion from participation in federal and state health care programs, including Medicare, Medicaid, and Veterans Administration health programs. These laws and regulations are broad in scope and they are subject to evolving interpretations, which could require Abbott to incur substantial costs associated with compliance or to alter one or more of its sales or marketing practices. In addition, violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, could disrupt Abbotts business and result in a material adverse effect on Abbotts revenues, profitability and financial condition.
If Abbott does not introduce new products in a timely manner, Abbotts products may become obsolete over time, customers may not buy Abbotts products, and Abbotts revenue and profitability may decline.
Demand for Abbotts products may change in ways Abbott does not anticipate. This could occur, for example, due to changing customer needs, the introduction by others of new products and technologies, or changing industry standards. Without the timely introduction of new products and enhancements, Abbotts products may become obsolete over time, causing Abbotts revenue and operating results to suffer. Even if Abbott succeeds in creating new product candidates, these candidates may not become commercially successful products if Abbott does not achieve positive clinical outcomes, meet regulatory requirements, or establish and maintain its intellectual property rights.
Even if Abbott successfully develops new products or enhancements or new generations of Abbotts existing products, they may be quickly rendered obsolete by changing customer preferences or the introduction by Abbotts competitors of products embodying new technologies or features. Finally, innovations may not be accepted quickly in the marketplace because of, among other things, entrenched patterns of clinical practice, the need for regulatory clearance, and uncertainty over third-party reimbursement.
The manufacture of many of Abbotts products is a highly exacting and complex process, and if Abbott or one of its suppliers encounters problems manufacturing products, Abbotts business could suffer.
The manufacture of many of Abbotts products is a highly exacting and complex process, due in part to strict regulatory requirements. Problems may arise during manufacturing for a variety of reasons, including equipment malfunction, failure to follow specific protocols and procedures, problems with raw materials, natural disasters and environmental factors. If problems arise during the production of a batch of product, that batch of product may have to be discarded. This could, among other things, lead to increased costs, lost revenue, damage to customer relations, time and expense spent investigating the cause and, depending on the cause, similar losses with respect to other batches or products. If problems are not discovered before the product is released to the market, recall and product liability costs may also be incurred. To the extent Abbott or one of its suppliers experiences significant manufacturing problems, this could have a material adverse effect on Abbotts revenues and profitability.
The international nature of Abbotts business subjects it to additional business risks that may cause its revenue and profitability to decline.
Abbotts business is subject to risks associated with doing business internationally. Sales outside of the United States make up more than 45% of Abbotts net sales. The risks associated with Abbotts operations outside the United States include:  changes in foreign medical reimbursement policies and programs;  multiple foreign regulatory requirements that are subject to change and that could restrict Abbotts ability to manufacture and sell its products;  differing local product preferences and product requirements; 12  trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements;  difficulty in establishing, staffing, and managing foreign operations;  differing labor regulations;  potentially negative consequences from changes in or interpretations of tax laws;  political and economic instability;  inflation, recession and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange and interest rates; and  diminished protection of intellectual property in some countries.
These risks may, individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on Abbotts revenues and profitability.
Significant safety issues could arise for Abbotts products, which could have a material adverse effect on Abbotts revenues and financial condition.
All health care products receive regulatory approval based on data obtained in controlled clinical trials of limited duration. Following regulatory approval, these products will be used over longer periods of time in many patients. Investigators may also conduct additional, and perhaps more extensive, studies. If new safety issues are reported, Abbott may be required to amend the conditions of use for a product. For example, Abbott may be required to provide additional warnings on a products label or narrow its approved indication, either of which could reduce the products market acceptance. If serious safety issues with an Abbott product arise, sales of the product could be halted by Abbott or by regulatory authorities.
In addition, in the ordinary course of business, Abbott is the subject of product liability claims and lawsuits alleging that its products have resulted or could result in an unsafe condition or injury to patients. Product liability claims and lawsuits and safety alerts or product recalls, regardless of their ultimate outcome, may have a material adverse effect on Abbotts business and reputation and on Abbotts ability to attract and retain customers. Product liability claims could have a material adverse effect on Abbotts profitability and financial condition.
Other factors can have a material adverse effect on Abbotts future profitability and financial condition.
Many other factors can affect Abbotts profitability and its financial condition, including:  Changes in the assumptions used to calculate the recorded amount of certain assets and liabilities, such as those used to calculate the cost for pension and post-employment benefits and stock-based compensation, or actual results differing from those assumptions.
Changes in or interpretations of laws and regulations including changes in accounting standards, taxation requirements and environmental laws in domestic or foreign jurisdictions.
Changes in the rate of inflation, interest rates, market value of Abbotts equity investments, and the performance of investments held by Abbotts employee benefit trusts.
Changes in business and political conditions, including (i)war, political instability, terrorist attacks in the U.S. and other parts of the world, the threat of future terrorist activity in the U.S. and other parts of the world and related military action, (ii)natural disasters, (iii)the cost and availability of insurance due to any of the foregoing events, and (iv)labor disputes, strikes, slow-downs or other forms of labor or union activity.
Changes in Abbotts business units and investments and changes in the relative and absolute contribution of each to earnings and cash flow resulting from evolving business strategies, changing 13 product mix, changes in tax rates both in the U.S. and abroad and opportunities existing now or in the future.
Changes in the buying patterns of a major distributor, retailer, or wholesale customer resulting from buyer purchasing decisions, pricing, seasonality, or other factors, or other problems with licensors, suppliers, distributors and business partners.
Legal difficulties, any of which could preclude or delay commercialization of products or adversely affect profitability, including claims asserting statutory or regulatory violations, adverse litigation decisions, and issues regarding compliance with any governmental consent decree or corporate integrity agreement.
CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Form10-K contains forward-looking statements that are based on managements current expectations, estimates and projections. Words such as expects, anticipates, intends, plans, believes, seeks, estimates, forecasts, variations of these words and similar expressions are intended to identify these forward-looking statements. Certain factors, including but not limited to those identified under Item1A. Risk Factors of this Form10-K, may cause actual results to differ materially from current expectations, estimates, projections, forecasts and from past results. No assurance can be made that any expectation, estimate or projection contained in a forward-looking statement will be achieved or will not be affected by the factors cited above or other future events. Abbott undertakes no obligation to release publicly any revisions to forward-looking statements as the result of subsequent events or developments.
14 ITEM1B.
UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not Applicable.
ITEM2.
PROPERTIES Abbotts corporate offices are located at 100 Abbott Park Road, Abbott Park, Illinois 60064-6400. The locations of Abbotts principal plants, as of December31, 2006, are listed below.
Location Reportable Segments of Products Produced Abbott Park,   Illinois Pharmaceutical   Products and Diagnostic Products Alameda,   California* Diagnostic   Products Altavista,   Virginia Pharmaceutical   Products and Nutritional Products Barceloneta,   Puerto Rico Pharmaceutical   Products and Diagnostic Products Brockville,   Canada Nutritional   Products Campoverde di   Aprilia, Italy Pharmaceutical   Products Casa Grande,   Arizona Pharmaceutical   Products and Nutritional Products Clonmel, Ireland Vascular Products Columbus, Ohio Pharmaceutical   Products and Nutritional Products Cootehill,   Ireland Nutritional   Products Dartford,   England* Diagnostic   Products Des Plaines,   Illinois Diagnostic   Products Edison, New   Jersey* Pharmaceutical   Products Fairfield,   California* Nutritional   Products Irving, Texas Diagnostic   Products Jayuya, Puerto   Rico Pharmaceutical   Products Kanata, Ontario,   Canada* Diagnostic   Products Karachi, Pakistan Pharmaceutical   Products Katsuyama, Japan Pharmaceutical   Products Ludwigshafen,   Germany Pharmaceutical   Products Mexico City,   Mexico Pharmaceutical   Products North Chicago,   Illinois Pharmaceutical   Products Queenborough,   Kent, England Pharmaceutical   Products Redwood City, California* Vascular Products Rio de Janeiro,   Brazil Pharmaceutical   Products Santa Clara,   California Diagnostic   Products Sligo, Ireland Nutritional   Products and Diagnostic Products South Pasadena,   California Diagnostic   Products Sturgis, Michigan Pharmaceutical   Products and Nutritional Products Temecula,   California Vascular Products Whippany, New   Jersey Pharmaceutical   Products Wiesbaden,   Delkenheim, Germany Diagnostic   Products Witney, Oxon,   England Diagnostic   Products Worcester,   Massachusetts Pharmaceutical   Products Zwolle, the   Netherlands Nutritional   Products * Leased property In addition to the above, Abbott has manufacturing facilities in six other locations in the United States, including Puerto Rico. Outside the United States, manufacturing facilities are located in thirteen other countries. Abbotts facilities are deemed suitable and provide adequate productive capacity.
15 In the United States, including Puerto Rico, Abbott owns nine distribution centers. Outside the United States, Abbott owns ten distribution centers. Abbott also has twenty-one United States research and development facilities located at: Abbott Park, Illinois; Alameda, California; Austin, Texas; Columbus, Ohio (two locations); Cranbury, New Jersey; Des Plaines, Illinois; East Windsor, New Jersey; Fairfield, California; Golden, Colorado; Hollywood, Florida; Irving, Texas; Long Grove, Illinois; North Chicago, Illinois; Parsippany, New Jersey; Redwood City, California; Santa Clara, California; South Brunswick, New Jersey; Temecula, California; Weston, Florida; and Worcester, Massachusetts. Outside the United States, Abbott has research and development facilities in Australia, Belgium, Canada, France, Germany, Ireland, Japan, the Netherlands, South Africa, Spain, Switzerland, and the United Kingdom.
Except as noted, the corporate offices, and those principal plants in the United States listed above, are owned by Abbott or subsidiaries of Abbott. The remaining manufacturing plants and all other facilities are owned or leased by Abbott or subsidiaries of Abbott. There are no material encumbrances on the properties.
ITEM3.
LEGAL PROCEEDINGS Abbott is involved in various claims, legal proceedings and investigations, including (as of January31, 2007) those described below.
Six cases are pending in which Abbott seeks to enforce its patents relating to divalproex sodium (a drug that Abbott sells under the trademark Depakote). In one case (filed December2006 in the U.S. District Court for the Central District of California), Abbott seeks injunctive relief against Anchen Pharmaceuticals,Inc. and Anchen International Pharmaceuticals Company, Ltd. and their proposed generic version of extended-release Depakote. In two of the actions (filed in November2005 and April2006, respectively) pending in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Illinois, Abbott seeks injunctive relief against Mylan Pharmaceuticals proposed generic version of extended-release Depakote. Abbott filed two other cases (June2005 and May2006) in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Illinois against Nu-Pharm Inc., Apotex Inc., and Apotex Corp. relating to generic versions of delayed-release Depakote. These actions are currently stayed while Apotex appeals a decision enjoining the approval of Nu-Pharms ANDA. The sixth case against Alra Laboratories,Inc. (filed in August1992 in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Illinois) relates to a generic version of delayed-release Depakote.
One case was pending in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas, Chiron Corporation and Rockefeller University v. Abbott and Centocor, involving patents regarding monoclonal antibodies, which plaintiffs claimed covered adalimumab (a drug sold by Abbott under the trademark Humira). The litigation was resolved through binding arbitration.
Six cases are pending related to Abbotts patents for sevoflurane (an anesthesia product Abbott sells under the trademarks Ultane and Sevorane). Two cases brought by Abbott and Central Glass Company, Ltd. (Central Glass) against Baxter Healthcare Corporation (Baxter) are pending in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois and allege that Baxters proposed generic sevoflurane product infringes their patent(s). In one of those cases, the Federal Circuit Court of Appeals held one of Abbotts patents invalid. One case, filed by Baxter and Baxter Healthcare Ltd. in June2005 against Abbott and Central Glass, is pending in the United Kingdom, High Court of Justice. A trial was held in December2006. In another case, filed by Abbott and Central Glass in May2005 against Baxter Company, Ltd., in the Tokyo District Court in Japan, Abbott obtained an injunction against Baxters sales of its products. Baxter has appealed that decision. Two cases regarding a generic sevoflurane product sold by Cristalia Productos Quimicos Farmaceuticos, Ltda. are pending in the Sao Paulo State Court in Brazil.
Abbott is involved in litigation pending in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois related to Abbotts patents for clarithromycin extended release (a drug Abbott sells under the 16 trademark Biaxin XL) and the proposed extended release products of the following companies: Andrx Pharmaceuticals,Inc. (filed in March2005), and Sandoz,Inc. (filed in September2005). In November2005, Abbott obtained a preliminary injunction against Andrx preventing Andrx from launching its extended release clarithromycin product. In January2007, the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit affirmed the preliminary injunction. In December2006, Abbotts motion for a temporary restraining order against Sandoz was denied. In January2007, Abbott filed a motion for preliminary injunction against Sandoz. Litigation relating to Abbotts clarithromycin patents is also pending in Canada and South Africa.
One case is pending in which Abbott seeks to enforce a patent covering cefdinir (a drug that Abbott sells in the United States under the trademark Omnicef). In October2006, Abbott was served with a complaint filed by Lupin Limited in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Virginia alleging that one of the patents covering cefdinir is invalid or not infringed by Lupins generic product. Lupin also challenges the validity of the patent term extension for this patent. Abbott is the exclusive licensee of this patent, which covers the crystalline forms of cefdinir, in the United States. In November2006, Abbott filed a counterclaim against Lupin Limited and Lupin Pharmaceuticals,Inc. for infringement of this patent.
Twenty-one lawsuits, including fifteen purported class actions, are pending against Abbott, Fournier Industrie et Sante, and Laboratories Fournier, S.A. (Fournier), alleging antitrust and unfair competition claims in connection with the sale of fenofibrate formulations. One purported class action, Paul T. Regan (filed in July2005), is pending in the United States District Court for the Central District of California. The other fourteen purported class actions and six individual actions are pending in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware: Alberto Litter (filed in August2005), Allied Services Division Welfare Fund and Hector Valdes (filed in June2005), American Sales Company,Inc.
(filed in March2006), Cindy Cronin (filed in July2005), Diana Kim (filed in June2005), Local 28 Sheet Metal Workers (filed in July2005), Louisiana Wholesale Drug Company,Inc.
(filed in June2005), Meijer,Inc.
(filed in June2005), Painters District Council No.30 Health and Welfare Fund (filed in June2005), Pennsylvania Employees Benefit Trust Fund (filed in June2005), Philadelphia Federation of Teachers Health and Welfare Fund (filed in July2005), Elaine M. Pullman (filed in June2005), Rochester Drug Co-Operative,Inc.
(filed in June2005), Charles M. Shain (filed in July2005), and Vista Healthplan,Inc.
(filed in June2005), CVS Pharmacy,Inc.
(filed in August2005), Impax Laboratories (filed in June2005), Pacificare Health Systems,Inc.
(filed in August2005), Teva Pharmaceuticals USA,Inc.
(filed in June2005), and Walgreen Co.
(filed in June2005). The plaintiffs seek actual damages, treble damages and other relief.
A number of cases, brought as purported class actions or representative actions on behalf of individuals or entities, are pending that allege generally that Abbott and numerous other pharmaceutical companies reported false pricing information in connection with certain drugs that are reimbursable under Medicare and Medicaid and by private payors. These cases, brought by private plaintiffs, the U.S. Department of Justice, State Attorneys General, and other state government entities, generally seek monetary damages and/or injunctive relief and attorneys fees. Abbott has filed or intends to file a response in each case denying all substantive allegations. The federal court cases have been consolidated for pre-trial purposes in the United States District Court for the District of Massachusetts under the Multi District Litigation Rules as In re: Pharmaceutical Industry Average Wholesale Price Litigation, MDL1456 . MDL1456 includes: (a)a purported class action case in which plaintiffs seek to certify a nationwide class of Medicare PartB consumers and two Massachusetts classes of third party payors and other consumers, filed in June 2003; (b)eleven State Attorney General and five state county suits, including a consolidated New York counties/City of New York suit filed in June2005; and (c)a civil whistle-blower suit brought by the United States Department of Justice (filed in federal court in the Southern District of Florida in May2006). Abbott has filed a motion to dismiss the Department of Justice case.
In addition, eight cases are also pending in state courts: State of West Virginia , filed in October2001 in the Circuit Court of Kanawha County, West Virginia; Swanston , filed in March2002 in the Superior Court 17 for Maricopa County, Arizona; International Union of Operating Engineers , filed in June2003 in the Superior Court of Monmouth County, New Jersey; Commonwealth of Kentucky , filed in September2003 in the Circuit Court of Franklin County, Kentucky; State of Texas , filed in May2004 in the District Court of Travis County, Texas; State of Alabama , filed in January2005 in the Circuit Court of Montgomery County, Alabama; State of Hawaii , filed in April2006 in the First Circuit Court of Hawaii; and the State of South Carolina (on behalf of the State Health Plan), filed in August2006 in the Court of Common Pleas, Fifth Judicial Circuit of Richland County. Certain state agencies, including the Attorneys General of Florida and Idaho, are investigating Abbotts marketing and pricing practices with respect to certain Medicare and Medicaid reimbursable products. These civil investigations seek to determine whether these practices violated any laws, including the Federal False Claims Act, or constituted fraud in connection with the Medicare and/or Medicaid reimbursement paid to third parties. While it is not feasible to predict with certainty the outcome of the proceedings and investigations related to pricing information for drugs reimbursable under Medicare and Medicaid, their ultimate dispositions could be material to cash flows or results of operations for a quarter.
The United States Department of Justice, through the United States Attorneys for the Eastern District of Wisconsin and the Western District of Louisiana, are investigating the sales and marketing practices of Kos Pharmaceuticals,Inc., a company Abbott acquired in December2006. The United States Attorney for the Eastern District of Wisconsin is working together with the Office of Inspector General of the United States Department of Health and Human Services. In addition, the Louisiana U.S. Attorney is investigating Kos calculation and reporting of Medicaid rebates. The government is seeking to determine whether any of these practices resulted in any violations of civil and/or criminal laws, including the Federal False Claims Act, the Anti-Kickback Statute, and the Medicaid Rebate Statute in connection with the Medicare and/or Medicaid reimbursement paid to third parties.
In addition, the U.S. Department of Justice, through the United States Attorney for Maryland, is investigating the sales and marketing practices of Abbott for Micardis, a drug co-promoted with (until March31, 2006) and manufactured by Boehringer Ingelheim. The government is seeking to determine whether any of these practices resulted in any violations of civil and/or criminal laws, including the Federal False Claims Act, and the Anti-Kickback Statute in connection with the Medicare and/or Medicaid reimbursement paid to third parties.
Abbott is a defendant in numerous lawsuits involving the drug oxycodone (a drug sold under the trademark OxyContin), which is manufactured by Purdue Pharma. Abbott previously promoted OxyContin under a co-promotion agreement with Purdue Pharma. Most of the lawsuits allege generally that plaintiffs suffered personal injuries as a result of taking OxyContin. A few lawsuits allege consumer protection violations and unfair trade practices. One suit by a third party payor alleges antitrust pricing violations and overpricing of the drug. As of December31, 2006, there are a total of 123lawsuits pending in which Abbott is a party. Three cases are pending in federal court and 120cases are pending in state court. 117cases are brought by individual plaintiffs, and 6 cases are brought as purported class action lawsuits. Purdue Pharma is a defendant in each lawsuit and, pursuant to the co-promotion agreement, Purdue is required to indemnify Abbott in each lawsuit.
Abbott is a defendant in several lawsuits originally filed in the United States District Court for the District of Minnesota and consolidated under the caption In re Canadian Import Antitrust Litigation alleging generally that Abbott and numerous other pharmaceutical manufacturers violated antitrust laws by conspiring to prevent re-importation of drugs from Canada. The district court dismissed with prejudice plaintiffs federal law claims and dismissed without prejudice plaintiffs state law claims. In November2006, the Eighth Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed the district courts decision.
A case against Takeda Pharmaceutical Company Limited and Takeda America Holdings,Inc. (Takeda) was filed in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois alleging Takeda breached its fiduciary duty to Abbott in that Takeda is improperly diverting to itself profits that 18 rightly belong jointly to Abbott and Takeda as equal joint venture partners in TAP Pharmaceutical Products Inc. (owned 50percent by Abbott and 50percent by Takeda). Abbott seeks injunctive relief and compensatory and punitive damages. In February 2006, the trial court granted Takedas motion to dismiss, ruling that Abbott must pursue its claim against Takeda in Japan. The U.S. Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit affirmed the dismissal.
In September2006, Johnson& Johnson filed a lawsuit against Guidant Corporation, Boston Scientific Corporation and Abbott in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York alleging that Abbott and Boston Scientific tortiously interfered with the proposed merger agreement between Johnson& Johnson and Guidant and that Guidant breached that agreement. Johnson& Johnson seeks monetary damages. The defendants have filed motions to dismiss.
Abbott is a defendant in a class action lawsuit pending in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois under the name Myla Nauman, Jane Roller and Michael Loughery v. Abbott Laboratories and Hospira,Inc.
The plaintiffs are former Abbott employees who allege that their transfer to Hospira,Inc., as part of the spin-off of Hospira, adversely affected their employee benefits in violation of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act, and that in their transfer, Abbott breached a fiduciary duty to plaintiffs involving employee benefits. Plaintiffs generally seek reinstatement as Abbott employees, or reinstatement as participants in Abbotts employee benefit plans, or an award for the employee benefits they have allegedly lost. Abbott filed a response denying all substantive allegations. Plaintiffs motion for class certification on the breach of fiduciary duty claim is pending.
A case is pending in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California in which Medtronic Vascular,Inc., Medtronic USA,Inc., and Medtronic Vascular Galway, Ltd. (collectively Medtronic) and Evysio Medical Devices ULC (Evysio) claim that Abbotts Multi-Link Vision, Penta, Zeta, and Xience V Coronary Stent Systems infringe certain Evysio stent design patents. Medtronic and Evysio seek damages, an injunction, and other relief. Abbott has filed its response denying the infringement claims and asserting that the patents are invalid and/or unenforceable. Evysio has also brought lawsuits in France, Ireland (in which Medtronic is also a plaintiff) and Germany claiming that the Vision, Penta, and/or XienceV infringe the European counterparts of these patents. In France, a court enjoined the launch of the XienceV stent. Abbott intends to appeal this decision and has filed responses in each of these European courts denying the infringement claims and asserting that the patents are invalid and/or unenforceable. In the United Kingdom, Abbott filed an action seeking a declaration that its stents do not infringe Evysios patents and that the patents are invalid. Evysio filed a counterclaim accusing Abbotts stents of infringement and seeking a declaration of validity.
A case is pending in the U.S. District Court for Delaware brought by Advanced Cardiovascular Systems,Inc., now an Abbott subsidiary, against Arterial Vascular Engineering,Inc. (now known as Medtronic Vascular,Inc.) alleging that certain models of Medtronics stents infringe four of the companys Lau patents, and seeking injunctive relief and damages. The court bifurcated the issues of liability and damages. In February2005, a jury found that Abbotts Lau patents were valid and infringed by all of the Medtronic stents in question, including its Driver coronary stent. In June2005, the court held a hearing on Medtronics claim that the patents are unenforceable. The court has not rendered a decision on this issue or on the parties post-trial motions and the issues of willful infringement and damages have not been tried.
While it is not feasible to predict the outcome of such pending claims, proceedings and investigations with certainty, management is of the opinion that their ultimate dispositions should not have a material adverse effect on Abbotts financial position, cash flows, or results of operations, except as noted above.
ITEM4.
SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS None.
19 EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT Executive officers of Abbott are elected annually by the board of directors. All other officers may be elected by the board or appointed by the chairman of the board. All officers are either elected at the first meeting of the board of directors held after the annual shareholder meeting or appointed by the chairman after that board meeting. Each officer holds office until a successor has been duly elected or appointed and qualified or until the officers death, resignation, or removal. Vacancies may be filled at any time by the board. Any officer may be removed by the board of directors when, in its judgment, removal would serve the best interests of Abbott. Any officer appointed by the chairman of the board may be removed by the chairman whenever, in the chairmans judgment, removal would serve the best interests of Abbott. A vacancy in any office appointed by the chairman of the board may be filled by the chairman.
Abbotts executive officers, their ages as of February16, 2007, and the dates of their first election as officers of Abbott are listed below. The executive officers principal occupations and employment from January2002 to February16, 2007 are also shown. Unless otherwise stated, employment was by Abbott for the period indicated. There are no family relationships between any corporate officers or directors.
MilesD. White, 51 2002 to present Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, and Director.
Elected Corporate Officer 1993.
RichardA. Gonzalez, 53 2006 to present President and Chief Operating Officer, and Director.
2002 to 2006 President and Chief Operating Officer, Medical Products Group, and Director.
Elected Corporate Officer 1995.
RichardW. Ashley, 63 2004 to present Executive Vice President, Corporate Development.
2002 to 2003 Senior Director, McKinsey and Company (a management consulting firm).
Elected Corporate Officer 2004.
WilliamG. Dempsey, 55 2006 to present Executive Vice President, Pharmaceutical Products Group.
2003 to 2006 Senior Vice President, Pharmaceutical Operations.
2002 to 2003 Senior Vice President, International Operations.
Elected Corporate Officer 1996.
ThomasC. Freyman, 52 2004 to present Executive Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer.
2002 to 2004 Senior Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer.
Elected Corporate Officer 1991.
20 Holger Liepmann, 55 2006 to present Executive Vice President, Global Nutrition.
2006 Executive Vice President, Pharmaceutical Products Group.
2004 to 2006 Senior Vice President, International Operations.
2002 to 2004 Vice President, Japan Operations, Abbott International Division.
Elected Corporate Officer 2001.
JosephM. NemmersJr., 52 2006 to present Executive Vice President, Diagnostic and Animal Health Divisions.
2003 to 2006 Senior Vice President, Diagnostic Operations.
2002 to 2003 Vice President, Global Commercial Operations, Diagnostic Products.
2002 Vice President, Hospital Products Business Sector.
Elected Corporate Officer 2001.
JeffreyR. Binder, 43 2006 to present Senior Vice President, Diagnostic Operations.
2005 to 2006 Vice President and President, Abbott Spine.
2004 to 2005 Vice President and President, Spinal Concepts.
2003 to 2004 President, Spinal Concepts.
2002 to 2003 President and CEO, Spinal Concepts,Inc. (innovator in spinal fixation technology).
Elected Corporate Officer 2004.
Olivier Bohuon, 48 2006 to present Senior Vice President, International Operations.
2003 to 2006 Vice President, European Operations.
2002 to 2003 Senior Vice President, European Commercial Operations, GlaxoSmithKline (a British based pharmaceutical, biologicals and healthcare company).
Elected Corporate Officer 2003.
JohnM. Capek, 45 2006 to present Senior Vice President, Abbott Vascular.
2006 Vice President, Abbott Vascular.
2005 to 2006 President, Guidant Vascular Intervention.
2003 to 2005 Vice President and General Manager, Bioabsorbable Vascular Solutions (a subsidiary of Guidant Corporation).
2002 to 2003 President, Guidant Vascular Intervention.
Elected Corporate Officer 2006.
21 ThomasF. Chen, 57 2006 to present Senior Vice President, Nutrition International Operations.
2005 to 2006 Vice President, Nutrition International, Asia and Latin America.
2005 Vice President, Nutrition International, Asia, Canada, Latin America.
2002 to 2005 Vice President, Abbott International, Pacific/Asia/Africa Operations.
Elected Corporate Officer 1998.
StephenR. Fussell, 49 2005 to present Senior Vice President, Human Resources.
2002 to 2005 Vice President, Compensation and Development.
Elected Corporate Officer 1999.
RobertB. Hance, 47 2006 to present Senior Vice President, Diabetes Care Operations.
2002 to 2006 Vice President and President, Vascular Solutions.
Elected Corporate Officer 1999.
JohnC. Landgraf, 54 2004 to present Senior Vice President, Global Pharmaceutical Manufacturing and Supply.
2003 to 2004 Vice President, Quality Assurance and Compliance, Medical Products Group.
2002 to 2003 Vice President, Operations, Diagnostic Products.
2002 Vice President, Corporate Engineering.
Elected Corporate Officer 2000.
GaryE. McCullough, 48 2003 to present Senior Vice President, Ross Products.
2002 to 2003 Senior Vice President Americas, Wm. Wrigley Jr. Company (a manufacturer and marketer of quality confectionery products, primarily chewing gum).
Elected Corporate Officer 2003.
LauraJ. Schumacher, 43 2005 to present Senior Vice President, Secretary and General Counsel. (Ms. Schumacher has been elected Executive Vice President, Secretary and General Counsel, effective March1, 2007).
2003 to 2005 Vice President, Secretary and Deputy General Counsel.
2002 to 2003 Divisional Vice President, Litigation.
Elected Corporate Officer 2003.
22 JamesL. Tyree, 53 2006 to present Senior Vice President, Pharmaceutical Operations.
2006 Senior Vice President, Global Nutrition.
2005 to 2006 Senior Vice President, Nutrition International Operations.
2002 to 2005 Vice President, Global Licensing/New Business Development.
Elected Corporate Officer 2001.
GregW. Linder, 50 2002 to present Vice President and Controller.
Elected Corporate Officer 1999.
23 PARTII ITEM5.
MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Principal Market The principal market for Abbotts common shares is the New York Stock Exchange. Shares are also listed on the Chicago Stock Exchange and are traded on the Boston, Philadelphia, and National Stock Exchanges, as well as on the NYSE Arca and NASDAQ iM markets. Outside the United States, Abbotts shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange and the Swiss Stock Exchange.
MarketPricePerShare 2006 2005 high low high low First Quarter $ 45.58 $ 39.18 $ 48.16 $ 43.34 Second Quarter 43.61 40.55 49.98 45.98 Third Quarter 49.87 43.25 50.00 41.57 Fourth Quarter 49.10 45.41 44.36 37.50 Shareholders There were 77,727shareholders of record of Abbott common shares as of December31, 2006.
Dividends Quarterly dividends of $.295 and $.275 per share were declared on common shares in 2006 and 2005, respectively.
Abbott Laboratories is an Illinois High Impact Business (HIB) and is located in a federal Foreign Trade Sub-Zone (Sub-Zone22F). Dividends may be eligible for a subtraction from base income for Illinois income tax purposes. If you have questions, please contact your tax advisor.
24 Performance Graph The following graph compares the change in Abbotts cumulative total shareholder return on its common shares with the Standard& Poors 500 Index and the Standard& Poors 500 Health Care Index.
25 Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Period (a)TotalNumber ofShares (orUnits) Purchased (b)AveragePrice PaidperShare (orUnit) (c)TotalNumber ofShares (orUnits) Purchased asPartofPublicly AnnouncedPlan orPrograms (d)MaximumNumber (orApproximateDollarValue) ofShares(orUnits) thatMayYetBePurchased UnderthePlans orPrograms October1, 2006 October31, 2006 73,859 1 $ 35.519 0 $ 2,500,000,000 November1, 2006 November30, 2006 158,747 1 $ 34.18 0 $ 2,500,000,000 December1, 2006 December31, 2006 325,876 1 $ 36.64 0 $ 2,500,000,000 Total 558,482 $ 35.7923 0 $ 2,500,000,000 2 1.
These shares represent: (i) the shares deemed surrendered to Abbott to pay the exercise price in connection with the exercise of employee stock options 60,859 in October; 145,747 in November; and 312,876 in December; and (ii) the shares purchased on the open market for the benefit of participants in the Abbott Canada Stock Retirement Plan 13,000 in October; 13,000 in November; and 13,000 in December.
These shares do not include the shares surrendered to Abbott to satisfy tax withholding obligations in connection with the vesting of restricted stock or restricted stock units.
2.
On October18, 2006, Abbott announced that its board of directors approved the purchase of up to $2.5 billion of its common shares.
ITEM6.
SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA YearendedDecember31 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 (dollarsinmillions,exceptpersharedata) Net sales (a) $ 22,476.3 $ 22,337.8 $ 19,680.0 $ 17,280.3 $ 15,279.5 Earnings from   continuing operations 1,716.8 (b) 3,372.1 3,175.8 2,504.7 2,547.0 Net earnings 1,716.8 (b) 3,372.1 3,235.9 2,753.2 2,793.7 Basic earnings   per common share from continuing operations 1.12 (b) 2.17 2.03 1.60 1.63 Basic earnings   per common share 1.12 (b) 2.17 2.07 1.76 1.79 Diluted earnings   per common share from continuing operations 1.12 (b) 2.16 2.02 1.59 1.62 Diluted earnings   per common share 1.12 (b) 2.16 2.06 1.75 1.78 Total assets 36,178.2 29,141.2 28,767.5 26,039.3 23,592.7 Long-term debt 7,009.7 4,571.5 4,787.9 3,452.3 4,274.0 Cash dividends declared   per common share 1.18 1.10 1.04 0.98 0.94 (a) Net sales for 2003 and 2002 have been adjusted to reflect the presentation of Hospira,Inc. as a discontinued operation.
(b) In 2006, Abbott recorded pre-tax charges of $2,014 for acquired in-process and collaborations research and development primarily related to the acquisition of Guidants vascular intervention and endovascular solutions businesses and Kos Pharmaceuticals,Inc.
26 ITEM7.
MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Financial Review Abbotts revenues are derived primarily from the sale of a broad line of health care products under short-term receivable arrangements. Patent protection and licenses, technological and performance features, and inclusion of Abbotts products under a contract or by a pharmacy benefit manager most impact which products are sold; price controls, competition and rebates most impact the net selling prices of products; and foreign currency translation impacts the measurement of net sales. Abbotts primary products are prescription pharmaceuticals, nutritional products, vascular products and diagnostic testing products. Abbott also owns 50 percent of TAP Pharmaceutical Products Inc. that Abbott accounts for on the equity method.
The worldwide launch of HUMIRA , the acquisition of Guidants vascular business, the amendment of the Boehringer Ingelheim agreement, and the loss of patent protection for some pharmaceutical products have impacted Abbotts sales, costs and financial position over the last three years.
Pharmaceutical research and development is focused on therapeutic areas that include immunology, oncology, neuroscience, metabolism, and viral diseases. In 2003, Abbott began the worldwide launch of HUMIRA , which increased its worldwide sales to $2.0 billion in 2006 compared to $1.4 billion in 2005. Substantial research and development and selling support has been and continues to be dedicated to maximizing the worldwide potential of HUMIRA . In December2006, Abbott acquired Kos Pharmaceuticals which complements Abbotts existing franchise in the dyslipidemia market and strengthens the late-stage and mid-term pharmaceutical pipeline with opportunities in cholesterol management, asthma and inhaled insulin. In 2005, Abbott and Boehringer Ingelheim (BI) amended their agreement whereby Abbott distributed and promoted BI products. Effective January1, 2006, Abbott no longer distributed or recorded sales for distribution activities for the BI products. Abbotts gross margins for BI products from the prior agreement in effect through December31, 2005 were substantially lower than its average gross margins. Sales of BI products were $150 million and $2.3 billion in 2006 and 2005, respectively. In addition, increased generic competition resulted in worldwide sales of clarithromycin declining 23 percent in 2006.
In 2005 and 2006, Abbotts nutritional products businesses were reorganized into a worldwide business to better leverage the opportunities available for strong nutritional brands. Significant efforts have been focused on capturing those opportunities, particularly in developing markets.
In April2006, Abbott acquired Guidants vascular intervention and endovascular solutions businesses and began to integrate it with Abbotts vascular business. The acquisition significantly improved Abbotts competitive position in this business that is characterized by rapid innovation. In 2006, Abbott received European Union approval to market the XIENCEV drug eluting stent.
Abbotts diagnostic segment is comprised of four separate divisions immunoassay/hematology, diabetes care, molecular, and point of care. In early 2004, Abbott acquired TheraSense for $1.2 billion, and began to integrate it with Abbotts diabetes care business. In January2007, Abbott announced that it had agreed to sell its core laboratory diagnostics business, including Abbott Point of Care, to GE for $8.13 billion in cash. Abbott expects the sale to close in the first half of 2007. Abbotts Molecular Diagnostics and Diabetes Care businesses are not part of this transaction and will remain part of Abbott.
Abbotts short- and long-term debt totaled $12.4 billion at December31, 2006, largely incurred to finance recent acquisitions. Operating cash flows in excess of capital expenditures and cash dividends have allowed Abbott to fund acquisitions over the last three years. At December31, 2006, Abbotts long-term debt rating was AA by Standard and Poors Corporation and A1 by Moodys Investors Service.
27 In 2007, Abbott will focus on several key initiatives. In the pharmaceutical business, Abbott will continue the launch of newly approved indications for HUMIRA , and will also focus on the integration of Kos Pharmaceuticals into the Pharmaceutical Products segment. Pharmaceutical research and development efforts will continue to focus on the therapeutic areas noted above with a significant portion of the development expenditures allocated to new HUMIRA indications. Abbott expects to submit additional pharmaceutical regulatory filings in 2007. In the vascular business, Abbott will continue the launch of the Xience V drug-eluting stent in Europe, and will launch in the U.S. upon approval by the FDA. For diabetes care, Abbott anticipates the approval of FreeStyle Navigator . Effort will also be required for the sale and separation of Abbotts core laboratory and point of care diagnostics businesses. In the other business segments, Abbott will focus on developing or acquiring differentiated technologies in higher growth segments of those markets.
Critical Accounting Policies Sales Rebates Approximately 40 percent of Abbotts consolidated gross revenues are subject to various forms of rebates and allowances that Abbott records as reductions of revenues at the time of sale. Most of these rebates and allowances are in the Pharmaceutical Products segment and the Nutritional Products segment. Abbott provides rebates to pharmacy benefit management companies, to state agencies that administer the federal Medicaid and Medicare programs and the Special Supplemental Food Program for Women, Infants, and Children (WIC), wholesalers, group purchasing organizations, and other government agencies and private entities. Rebate amounts are usually based upon the volume of purchases using contractual or statutory prices for a product. Factors used in the rebate calculations include the identification of which products have been sold subject to a rebate, which customer or government agency price terms apply, and the estimated lag time between sale and payment of a rebate. Using historical trends, adjusted for current changes, Abbott estimates the amount of the rebate that will be paid, and records the liability as a reduction of gross sales when Abbott records its sale of the product. Settlement of the rebate generally occurs from two to 24months after sale. Abbott regularly analyzes the historical rebate trends and makes adjustments to reserves for changes in trends and terms of rebate programs. Rebates and chargebacks charged against gross sales in 2006, 2005 and 2004 amounted to approximately $2.6 billion, $2.5 billion and $2.4 billion, respectively, or 23.2 percent, 22.9 percent and 25.6 percent, respectively, based on gross sales of approximately $11.0 billion, $10.9 billion and $9.3 billion, respectively, subject to rebate. A one-percentage point increase in the percentage of rebates to related gross sales would decrease net sales and operating earnings by approximately $110 million in 2006. Other allowances charged against gross sales were approximately $247 million, $284 million and $233 million for cash discounts in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively, and $209 million, $162 million and $163 million for returns in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Cash discounts are known within 15 to 30 days of sale, and therefore can be reliably estimated. Returns can be reliably estimated because Abbotts historical returns are low, and because sales returns terms and other sales terms have remained relatively unchanged for several periods.
Management analyzes the adequacy of ending rebate accrual balances each quarter. In the domestic nutritional business, management uses both internal and external data available to estimate the level of inventory in the distribution channel. Management internally estimates the inventory in the retail channel that is not on the retail shelf. A third party continuously measures time on the retail shelf, which is a relatively significant portion of the time inventory is in the distribution channel. Except for a transition period before or after a change in the supplier for the WIC business in a state, inventory in the distribution channel does not vary substantially. Management also estimates the states processing lag time based on claims data. In addition, internal processing time is a factor in estimating the accrual. In the WIC business, the state where the sale is made, which is the determining factor for the applicable price, is reliably estimable. Estimates are required for the amount of WIC sales within each state where Abbott has the WIC business. External data sources utilized for that estimate are participant data from the 28 U.S.Department of Agriculture (USDA), which administers the WIC program, participant data from some of the states, and internally administered market surveys. The USDA has been making its data available for many years. Internal data includes historical redemption rates and pricing data. At December31, 2006, Abbott had the exclusive WIC business in 11 states.
In the domestic pharmaceutical business, the most significant charges against gross sales are for Medicaid and Medicare Rebates, Pharmacy Benefit Manager Rebates and Wholesaler Chargebacks. In order to evaluate the adequacy of the ending accrual balances, management uses both internal and external estimates of the level of inventory in the distribution channel and the rebate claims processing lag time. External data sources used to estimate the inventory in the distribution channel include inventory levels periodically reported by wholesalers and third party market data purchased by Abbott. Management estimates the processing lag time based on periodic sampling of claims data. To estimate the price rebate percentage, systems and calculations are used to track sales by product by customer and to estimate the contractual or statutory price. Abbotts systems and calculations have developed over time as rebates have become more significant, and Abbott believes they are reliable.
The following table is an analysis of the four largest rebate accruals , which comprise approximately 76 percent of the consolidated rebate provisions charged against revenues in 2006. Remaining rebate provisions charged against gross sales are not significant in the determination of operating earnings. ( dollars in thousands ) DomesticPharmaceuticalProducts Domestic Nutritionals WIC Rebates Medicaid and Medicare Rebates Pharmacy Benefit Manager Rebates Wholesaler Chargebacks Balance at   January1, 2004 $ 113,362 $ 229,070 $ 145,195 $ 37,093 Provisions 671,817 596,330 279,681 419,486 Payments (687,132 ) (452,342 ) (271,078 ) (412,526 ) Balance at   December31, 2004 98,047 373,058 153,798 44,053 Provisions 641,189 663,043 253,499 450,901 Payments (644,460 ) (581,098 ) (273,166 ) (446,867 ) Balance at   December31, 2005 94,776 455,003 134,131 48,087 Provisions 636,849 527,860 281,221 532,847 Payments (595,477 ) (533,632 ) (246,456 ) (513,905 ) Balance at   December31, 2006 $ 136,148 $ 449,231 $ 168,896 $ 67,029 Adjustments for prior years rebate accruals have not been material. Abbott employs various techniques to verify the accuracy of claims submitted to it, and where possible, works with the organizations submitting claims to gain insight into changes that might affect the rebate amounts. For Medicaid, Medicare and other government agency programs, the calculation of a rebate involves interpretations of relevant regulations, which are subject to challenge or change in interpretation.
Income Taxes  Abbott operates in numerous countries where its income tax returns are subject to audits and adjustments. Because Abbott operates globally, the nature of the audit items are often very complex, and the objectives of the government auditors can result in a tax on the same income in more than one country. Abbott employs internal and external tax professionals to minimize audit adjustment amounts where possible. As part of Abbotts calculation of the provision for taxes on earnings, Abbott records the amount that it expects to incur as a result of audits. Each quarter, Abbott reviews its exposures in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No.5, Accounting for Contingencies. In the U.S., Abbotts federal income tax returns through 2003 are settled, and the income tax returns for years after 2003 are open. Except for taxes on dividends that were remitted under the 29 American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, Abbott does not record deferred income taxes on earnings reinvested indefinitely in foreign subsidiaries. On January1, 2007, Abbott must adopt the provisions of FASB Interpretation No.48 Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes which changes the measurement of tax contingencies. Under this Interpretation, in order to recognize an uncertain tax benefit, the taxpayer must be more likely than not of sustaining the position, and the measurement of the benefit is calculated as the largest amount that is more than 50percent likely to be realized upon resolution of the benefit. This Interpretation will result in significantly more effort to assess tax uncertainties than was required under SFAS No.5, and may result in initial recording of tax expense that exceeds the expected resolution of tax uncertainties. The adoption of this Interpretation is not expected to have a material effect on Abbotts January1, 2007 balance sheet or the 2007 provision for income taxes.
Pension and Post-Employment Benefits Abbott offers pension benefits and post-employment health care to many of its employees. Abbott engages outside actuaries to calculate its obligations and costs under these programs. Abbott must develop long-term assumptions, the most significant of which are the health care cost trend rate, discount rate and the expected return on plan assets. The discount rates used to measure liabilities as of December31, 2006 and 2005 were determined based on high-quality fixed income securities that match the duration of the expected retiree benefits. Prior to December31, 2005, the discount rate was determined by reference to a composite corporate AA bond index. The health care cost trend rate represents Abbotts expected annual rates of change in the cost of health care benefits and is a forward projection of health care costs as of the measurement date. A difference between the assumed rates and the actual rates, which will not be known for decades, can be significant in relation to the obligations and the annual cost recorded for these programs. Recent low interest rates have significantly increased actuarial losses for these plans. At December31, 2006, pretax net actuarial losses and prior service costs and (credits) recognized in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) for Abbotts defined benefit plans and medical and dental plans were $1.4 billion and $537 million, respectively. Actuarial losses and gains are amortized over the remaining service periods of the employees under the corridor method, in accordance with the rulesfor accounting for post-employment benefits. Differences between the expected long-term return on plan assets and the actual annual return are amortized over a five-year period. Footnote4 to the consolidated financial statements describes the impact of a one-percentage point change in the health care cost trend rate; however, there can be no certainty that a change would be limited to only one percentage point. On December31, 2006, Abbott adopted the provisions of SFAS No.158 Employers Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans. The provisions of this statement require the immediate recognition of the deferrals on the balance sheet with a corresponding charge to Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). Adoption of this statement on December31, 2006 resulted in a decrease in Abbotts shareholders equity of approximately $1.3 billion.
Valuation of Intangible Assets  Abbott has acquired and continues to acquire significant intangible assets that Abbott records at fair value. Those assets which do not yet have regulatory approval and for which there are no alternative uses are expensed as acquired in-process research and development, and those that have regulatory approval are capitalized. Transactions involving the purchase or sale of intangible assets occur with some frequency between companies in the health care field and valuations are usually based on a discounted cash flow analysis. The discounted cash flow model requires assumptions about the timing and amount of future net cash inflows, risk, the cost of capital, and terminal values. Each of these factors can significantly affect the value of the intangible asset. Abbott engages independent valuation experts who review Abbotts critical assumptions and calculations for significant acquisitions of intangibles. Abbott reviews intangible assets for impairment each quarter using an undiscounted net cash flows approach. If the undiscounted cash flows of an intangible asset are less than the carrying value of an intangible asset, the intangible asset is written down to its fair value, which is usually the discounted cash flow amount. Where cash flows cannot be identified for an individual asset, the review is applied at the lowest group level for which cash flows are identifiable. Goodwill is reviewed for impairment annually or 30 when an event that could result in an impairment of goodwill occurs. At December31, 2006 goodwill and intangibles amounted to $9.4billion and $6.4billion, respectively, and amortization expense for intangible assets amounted to $575million in 2006. There were no impairments of goodwill in 2006, 2005 or 2004. At December31, 2006 the valuations for the Guidant and Kos acquisitions have not been finalized.
Litigation  Abbott accounts for litigation losses in accordance with SFAS No.5, Accounting for Contingencies. Under SFAS No.5, loss contingency provisions are recorded for probable losses at managements best estimate of a loss, or when a best estimate cannot be made, a minimum loss contingency amount is recorded. These estimates are often initially developed substantially earlier than the ultimate loss is known, and the estimates are refined each accounting period as additional information becomes known. Accordingly, Abbott is often initially unable to develop a best estimate of loss, and therefore the minimum amount, which could be zero, is recorded. As information becomes known, either the minimum loss amount is increased, resulting in additional loss provisions, or a best estimate can be made, also resulting in additional loss provisions. Occasionally, a best estimate amount is changed to a lower amount when events result in an expectation of a more favorable outcome than previously expected. Except for one group of cases relating to pharmaceutical pricing for which Abbott is unable to estimate a loss, if any, Abbott estimates the range of possible loss to be from approximately $165million to $295million for its legal proceedings and environmental exposures. Reserves of approximately $200million have been recorded at December31, 2006 for these proceedings and exposures. These reserves represent managements best estimate of probable loss, as defined by SFAS No.5.
Stock Compensation Through December31, 2005, Abbott measured compensation cost using the intrinsic value-based method of accounting for stock options granted to employees and disclosed the impact of the fair value method in the footnotes to the consolidated financial statements. On January1, 2006, Abbott adopted SFAS No.123 (revised 2004), Share-Based Payment, which requires that fair value be recorded in the results of operations. Since there is no market for trading employee stock options, management must use a fair value method. There is no certainty that the results of a fair value method would be the value at which employee stock options would be traded for cash. Fair value methods require management to make several assumptions, the most significant of which are the selection of a fair value model, stock price volatility and the average life of an option. Abbott has readily available grant-by-grant historical activity for several years in its option administration system that it uses in developing some of its assumptions. Abbott uses the Black-Scholes method to value stock options. The results of the Black-Scholes model are periodically compared to the binomial model and the results have been comparable. Abbott uses both historical volatility of its stock price and the implied volatility of currently traded options to develop the volatility assumptions. Abbott uses the historical grant activity, combined with expectations about future exercise activity, to develop the average life assumptions. Abbott has also used the historical grant data to evaluate whether certain holders of stock options exercised their options differently than other holders and has not found any differentiating pattern among holders. Abbott quantified the additional paid in capital amount available for use in determining tax effects of early exercise for measurement of tax expense. Abbott used the modified prospective method of adoption. Under this method, prior years financial results do not include the impact of recording stock options using fair value. Footnote 9 quantifies the effect in 2005 and 2004 had compensation cost been determined using the fair value method.
31 Results of Operations Sales The following table details the components of sales growth by reportable segment for the last three years: Total% ComponentsofChange% Change Price Volume Exchange Total Net Sales 2006 vs. 2005 0.6 (a) 0.6 0.2 (0.2 ) 2005 vs. 2004 13.5 0.1 12.1 1.3 2004 vs. 2003 13.9 1.6 9.1 3.2 Total U.S.
2006 vs. 2005 (7.5 )(a) 2.4 (9.9 )  2005 vs. 2004 13.0 0.8 12.2  2004 vs. 2003 12.8 3.8 9.0  Total   International 2006 vs. 2005 10.9 (1.3 ) 12.7 (0.5 ) 2005 vs. 2004 14.2 (0.7 ) 12.0 2.9 2004 vs. 2003 15.3 (1.0 ) 8.9 7.4 Pharmaceutical   Products Segment 2006 vs. 2005 (9.5 )(a) 1.8 (11.0 ) (0.3 ) 2005 vs. 2004 14.9 0.6 13.0 1.3 2004 vs. 2003 16.2 3.2 9.6 3.4 Diagnostic   Products Segment 2006 vs. 2005 5.9 (1.7 ) 8.1 (0.5 ) 2005 vs. 2004 11.2 (0.7 ) 9.9 2.0 2004 vs. 2003 11.1 (1.2 ) 6.9 5.4 Nutritional   Products Segment 2006 vs. 2005 9.6 (0.4 ) 9.7 0.3 2005 vs. 2004 9.7 (0.5 ) 9.4 0.8 2004 vs. 2003 10.2 (0.1 ) 8.9 1.4 Vascular Products Segment 2006 vs. 2005 327.7 (4.6 ) 333.2 (0.9 ) 2005 vs. 2004 14.7 (0.4 ) 14.5 0.6 2004 vs. 2003 19.3 (1.7 ) 21.0  (a) The Pharmaceutical Products segment had an agreement with Boehringer Ingelheim (BI) to co-promote and distribute three of its products in the U.S. In 2005, Abbott and BI amended the agreement and effective January1, 2006,Abbott no longer distributed or recorded sales for distribution activities for the BI products. The increases in sales for 2006 excluding BI products were 11.6 percent for total net sales, 12.3 percent for total U.S. sales and 7.8 percent for Pharmaceutical Products segment sales.
32 A comparison of significant product group sales is as follows.
Percent changes are versus the prior year and are based on unrounded numbers.
2006 Percent Change 2005 Percent Change 2004 Percent Change (dollarsinmillions) Pharmaceuticals U.S. Specialty $ 3,505 25 $ 2,799 16 $ 2,410 26 U.S. Primary Care 2,505 2 2,463  2,466 12 International   Pharmaceuticals 5,157 8 4,776 14 4,202 18 Diagnostics Immunoassay 2,272 4 2,187 2 2,141 2 Diabetes Care 1,136 6 1,067 35 791 46 Nutritionals U.S. Pediatric Nutritionals 1,128 3 1,097 (4 ) 1,146 5 International   Pediatric Nutritionals 899 29 698 17 598 13 U.S. Adult Nutritionals 1,097 2 1,077 15 934 15 International Adult   Nutritionals 785 10 716 8 665 13 Increased sales volume of HUMIRA and increased volume and price for Kaletra and Depakote favorably impacted U.S. Specialty sales. Increased sales volume for TriCor and Omnicef favorably impacted U.S. Primary Care sales and were partially offset by lower U.S. sales of Biaxin due primarily to generic competition for the immediate-release formulation. U.S. sales of Biaxin were $151 million, $306 million and $458 million in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Increased sales volume of HUMIRA favorably impacted International Pharmaceuticals sales, partially offset by decreased sales volume in 2006 due to generic competition for clarithromycin. Diabetes Care product sales growth in 2005 and 2004 was favorably impacted by the acquisition of TheraSense in the second quarter of 2004. The decrease in sales of U.S. pediatric nutritionals in 2005 was primarily due to overall infant nutritionals non-WIC category decline and competitive share loss. International Pediatric Nutritionals sales increases were due primarily to volume growth in developing countries. U.S. Adult Nutritionals sales in 2005 and 2004 were favorably impacted by the acquisition of EAS in the fourth quarter of 2004.
Abbott has periodically sold product rights to non-strategic products and has recorded the related gains in net sales in accordance with Abbotts revenue recognition policies as discussed in footnote1 to the consolidated financial statements. Related net sales were $199 million in 2006, $177 million in 2005 and $144 million in 2004.
The expiration of licenses, patent protection and generic competition can affect the future revenues and operating income of Abbott. Significant ongoing generic activities, and significant patent and license expirations in the next three years are as follows. The U.S. composition of matter patent for Depakote expires in 2008. Abbott holds non-composition of matter patents on the extended release form of Depakote . U.S. sales of Depakote in 2006 were $1.2 billion. In 2004, the FDA granted approval for generic competition to Synthroid and generic competitors have entered the market. U.S. sales of Synthroid were $470 million in 2006 and $498 million in 2005. Clarithromycin is now subject to generic competition in most European markets. European market sales of clarithromycin in 2006 and 2005 were $329 million and $416 million, respectively. In the U.S., clarithromycin is marketed in two forms, the immediate release and the extended release forms. In May2005, the composition of matter patent on clarithromycin expired, and several immediate release generic products were launched by competitors. Abbott holds non-composition of matter patents for the extended release form of clarithromycin. In December2006, an extended release generic product was launched by a competitor. The U.S. District Court of the Northern District of Illinois has denied Abbotts request for grant of a temporary restraining order against the competitor. There may 33 be further generic competition for clarithromycin in other countries in 2007 depending on the results of legal proceedings related to the patents. Upon the December2005 expiration of a court order related to licenses for sevoflurane, Baxter is now permitted to market a competitive form of sevoflurane. In addition, sevoflurane has been subject to generic competition from other competitors in isolated markets outside of the U.S. and further generic competition in international markets is possible. Worldwide sales of sevoflurane in 2006 and 2005 were $799 million and $874 million, respectively.
The composition of matter patent for Omnicef expires in May2007. Abbott holds an additional non-composition of matter patent for Omnicef . Sales of Omnicef in 2006 and 2005 were $637 million and $495 million, respectively. The Pharmaceutical Products segment markets all of the above products. The patent for Prevacid , which is licensed by TAP Pharmaceuticals (TAP), expires in 2009. Abbott records TAPs results on the equity method.
Operating Earnings Gross profit margins were 56.3 percent of net sales in 2006, 52.4 percent in 2005 and 54.9 percent in 2004. The increase in the gross profit margin in 2006 was due to favorable product mix, primarily as a result of decreased sales of Boehringer Ingelheim products that have lower margins than for other products in the Pharmaceutical Products segment and the decrease in the gross profit margin in 2005 was due to unfavorable product mix, primarily as a result of increased sales of Boehringer Ingelheim products. Restructuring charges, discussed below, reduced the gross profit margins in 2006 and 2005 by 1.1percentage points and 0.8 percentage points, respectively. The gross profit margin in 2004 was impacted by the favorable mix effect of exchange on the gross profit margin and by unfavorable product mix, primarily increased sales of lower margin Boehringer Ingelheim products in the Pharmaceutical Products segment. Gross profit margins in all years were also affected by productivity improvements, higher project expenses for new products, higher manufacturing capacity costs for anticipated unit growth and the effects of inflation.
In the U.S., states receive price rebates from manufacturers of infant formula under the federally subsidized Special Supplemental Food Program for Women, Infants, and Children. There are also rebate programs for pharmaceutical products. These rebate programs continue to have a negative effect on the gross profit margins of the Nutritional and Pharmaceutical Products segments. In addition, pricing pressures unfavorably impacted the gross profit margins for the Nutritional Products segment in 2006, 2005 and 2004.
The gross profit margins for the Pharmaceutical Products segment were favorably impacted in 2006 and unfavorably impacted in 2005 and 2004 by product mix. The favorable product mix in 2006 was due to decreased sales of lower margin Boehringer Ingelheim products and the unfavorable product mix in 2005 and 2004 was due primarily to increased sales of lower margin Boehringer Ingelheim products and higher other manufacturing costs.
Research and development expense, excluding acquired in-process and collaborations research and development, was $2.3 billion in 2006, $1.8 billion in 2005 and $1.7billion in 2004 and represented increases of 23.8 percent in 2006, 7.3 percent in 2005 and 4.5 percent in 2004. The effect of recording compensation expense relating to share-based awards and additional costs associated with Abbotts decision to discontinue the commercial development of the ZoMaxx drug-eluting stent increased research and development expenses by 6.3 percentage points over 2005. The remaining increase was due to the acquisition of Guidants vascular intervention and endovascular solutions businesses and increased spending to support pipeline programs, including follow-on indications for HUMIRA , and other late-stage clinical programs in pharmaceuticals, diabetes care and vascular. The majority of research and development expenditures are concentrated on pharmaceutical products .
Selling, general and administrative expenses increased 15.5 percent in 2006 compared to increases of 11.7 percent in 2005 and 2.4 percent in 2004. 2006 includes the effect of recording compensation expense 34 relating to share-based awards, a philanthropic contribution to the Abbott Fund and the acquisition of Guidants vascular intervention and endovascular solutions businesses. These items increased selling, general and administrative expenses by 8.6 percentage points over 2005. The restructuring charges discussed below and an increase in a bad debt reserve associated with an unfavorable court ruling increased the percent change from 2004 by 2.7 percentage points in 2005. In 2003, Abbott recorded in selling, general and administrative expenses, a pretax charge of $614 million related to a settlement. This 2003 charge reduced the increase in selling, general and administrative expenses by 15.0 percentage points for 2004. The remaining increases in selling, general and administrative expenses were due primarily to increased selling and marketing support for new and existing products, including continued spending for HUMIRA , as well as spending on other marketed pharmaceutical products. These increases also reflect the effects of the acquisitions of TheraSense and EAS in 2004. Increases in all three years also reflect inflation and additional selling and marketing support primarily in the Pharmaceutical Products segment.
Restructurings (dollars in millions) In 2006 and 2005, Abbott management approved plans to realign its worldwide pharmaceutical manufacturing operations and selected domestic and international commercial and research and development operations in order to reduce costs. In 2006 and 2005, Abbott recorded pretax charges against earnings of approximately $210 and $256, respectively, reflecting the impairment of manufacturing facilities and other assets, employee severance and other related charges. Approximately $181 and $174, respectively, is classified as cost of products sold, $29 and $10, respectively, as research and development and $72, in 2005, as selling, general and administrative. An additional $70 and $14 were subsequently recorded in 2006 and 2005, respectively, relating to these restructurings, primarily for accelerated depreciation. As a result of product re-registration timelines required under manufacturing regulations in a number of countries, manufacturing related realignments are expected to continue into 2007.
The following summarizes the activity for restructurings: Employee- Related andOther Asset Impairments Total 2005   restructuring charges $ 191.7 $ 63.8 $ 255.5 Payments and   impairments (36.9 ) (63.8 ) (100.7 ) Accrued balance   at December31, 2005 154.8  154.8 2006   restructuring charges 117.7 92.6 210.3 Payments,   impairments and other adjustments (79.2 ) (92.6 ) (171.8 ) Accrued balance at   December31, 2006 $ 193.3 $  $ 193.3 Abbott expects to incur up to an additional $128 in future periods for restructuring plans, primarily for accelerated depreciation.
Net Interest Expense Net interest expense increased in 2006 due primarily to higher borrowings as a result of the acquisition of Guidants vascular intervention and endovascular solutions businesses, and Abbotts investments in the common stock of Boston Scientific and a note receivable; partially offset by higher interest income.
Other (income) expense, net The increase in Other (income) expense in 2006 is primarily due to fair-value gain adjustments to certain derivative financial instruments related to the investment in Boston Scientific common stock.
35 Taxes on Earnings The effective income tax rates on income from continuing operations were 24.6 percent in 2006, 27.0percent in 2005 and 23.0 percent in 2004. Taxes on earnings in 2006 reflect the effect of the tax rates applied to acquired in-process and collaborations research and development and the resolution of prior years income tax audits and the effect of discrete tax events. For 2006, the tax rates applied to acquired in-process and collaborations research and development increased the effective tax rate by 6.6 percentage points and the effect of the income tax audit resolution and discrete tax events decreased the effective tax rate by 5.5 percentage points. In 2005, Abbott remitted $4.3 billion of foreign earnings in accordance with the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 and recorded additional tax expense of $245 million, which increased the effective tax rate by approximately 5.3 percentage points. This was partially offset by adjustments of prior years tax accounts resulting primarily from resolution of prior years accrual requirements, which decreased the effective tax rate by 2.3 percentage points. The effective tax rate for 2004 reflects adjustments of prior years tax requirements primarily as a result of resolutions of prior years tax audits and the effect of non-deductible acquired in-process research and development. The effect of these items for 2004 was to decrease the effective tax rate by approximately 1.2 percentage points. Abbott expects to apply an annual effective rate of approximately 22.5 percent in 2007.
Spin-off of Abbotts Core Hospital Products Business In 2004, Abbotts Board of Directors declared a special dividend distribution of all of the outstanding shares of common stock of Hospira,Inc., payable on April30, 2004. Hospira included the operations relating to the manufacture and sale of hospital products including specialty injectable pharmaceuticals, medication delivery systems and critical care devices and injectable pharmaceutical contract manufacturing. Hospira included Abbotts Hospital Products segment, after that segments reorganization on January1, 2004, and portions of the former International segment. The income and cash flows of Hospira and the direct transaction costs of the spin-off have been presented as discontinued operations in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings and Statement of Cash Flows.
Abbott has retained liabilities for taxes on income prior to the spin-off, defined benefit, post-employment medical and dental plan obligations and assets, as of the spin-off, for most of Hospiras U.S. retired employees and U.S. retirement eligible employees and certain potential liabilities, if any, related to alleged improper pricing practices prior to the spin-off in connection with federal, state and private reimbursement for certain drugs.
Business Combinations, Technology Acquisitions and Related Transactions In December2006, Abbott acquired Kos Pharmaceuticals Inc. for cash of approximately $3.8 billion, net of cash held by Kos Pharmaceuticals, to expand Abbotts presence in the lipid management market and to provide several on-market and late-stage pipeline products. Kos Pharmaceuticals Inc. is a specialty pharmaceutical company that develops and markets proprietary medications for the treatment of chronic cardiovascular, metabolic and respiratory diseases. This business was acquired on December13, 2006 and the financial results of the acquired operations are included in these financial statements beginning on that date. The acquisition was financed primarily with short-term debt. The preliminary allocation of the acquisition cost is shown in the table below (in millions of dollars) .
Goodwill,   primarily non-deductible $ 1,824 Acquired   in-process research and development 1,262 Acquired   intangible assets, primarily product rights for marketed products 821 Acquired net   tangible assets 97 Deferred income   taxes recorded at acquisition (234 ) Total preliminary   allocation of acquisition cost $ 3,770 36 Acquired intangible assets will be amortized over 1 to 15 years. Non-deductible acquired in-process research and development was charged to income in 2006. The net tangible assets acquired consist primarily of trade accounts receivable, inventories and property and equipment, net of assumed liabilities, primarily accrued salaries and wages and other liabilities.
In order to expand Abbotts presence in the growing vascular market, Abbott acquired Guidants vascular intervention and endovascular solutions businesses for approximately $4.1 billion, in cash, in connection with Boston Scientifics acquisition of Guidant. These businesses were acquired on April21, 2006 and the financial results of the acquired operations are included in these financial statements beginning on that date. In addition, Abbott will also pay to Boston Scientific $250 million each upon government approvals to market the XIENCEV drug-eluting stent in the U.S. and in Japan. Each $250million payment will result in the recording of additional goodwill. The preliminary allocation of the acquisition cost is shown in the table below (in millions of dollars) . The valuation of intellectual property, including intangible assets and acquired in-process research and development, is substantially complete, but the valuations of the other assets and liabilities are preliminary. The allocation will be finalized when certain information regarding the other assets and liabilities is known.
Goodwill,   primarily deductible $ 1,688 Acquired   intangible assets, primarily product rights for marketed products 1,195 Acquired   in-process research and development 665 Acquired net   tangible assets 580 Total preliminary   allocation of acquisition cost $ 4,128 Acquired intangible assets will be amortized over 3 to 15 years (average of approximately 10 years). Tax deductible acquired in-process research and development was charged to income in 2006. The net tangible assets acquired consist primarily of property and equipment of approximately $530 million, trade accounts receivable of approximately $250 million and inventories of approximately $120 million, net of assumed liabilities, primarily trade accounts payable, litigation reserves and other liabilities.
In order to facilitate Boston Scientifics acquisition of Guidant, Abbott also acquired 64.6 million shares of Boston Scientific common stock directly from Boston Scientific and loaned $900 million to a wholly-owned subsidiary of Boston Scientific. Abbott is required to dispose of the shares by October2008. Sales of the shares are limited to approximately 5.4 million shares per month until October2007. The amount recorded upon the acquisition of the shares includes a discount to market, based on an appraisal, to reflect the value of the restrictions on sale. On the date of acquisition, half of the shares were recorded as available for sale in accordance with SFAS No.115 and the remainder under the cost method in accordance with APB No.18. As of December31, 2006, all of the shares are recorded as available for sale in accordance with SFAS No.115. The loan, which is due in April2011, is guaranteed by Boston Scientific and bears a favorable effective interest rate of 4 percent, which is reflected in the valuation of the note receivable. In connection with the acquisition of the shares, Boston Scientific is entitled to certain after-tax gains upon Abbotts sale of the shares. Abbott would retain any gains on the sale of the Boston Scientific shares up to a sales price of $23.83; Boston Scientific would receive any after-tax gains on the sale of the shares for the portion of the sales price in excess of $23.83 but lower than $26.00; and Boston Scientific would receive one-half of any after-tax gain for the portion of the sales price in excess of $25.99. Based on an appraisal, Abbott recorded approximately $114 million for this gain-sharing derivative financial instrument liability. In addition, Boston Scientific agreed to reimburse Abbott for certain borrowing costs on debt incurred to acquire the Boston Scientific shares. After Abbott incurs the first $10 million of interest cost on debt incurred to acquire the shares, Boston Scientific will reimburse Abbott for the next $60 million of interest cost. Reimbursement for the incremental interest cost will be in the form of additional common stock of Boston Scientific, payable 18 months after the acquisition. Abbott recorded 37 approximately $55 million for this interest derivative financial instrument asset. The effect of recording the shares, the loan to Boston Scientific and the derivative financial instruments at fair value on the date of acquisition resulted in the recording of additional goodwill of approximately $204 million. The financial assets and liability acquired from Boston Scientific were valued and recorded at acquisition as follows (inmillions of dollars) : Boston Scientific   common stock $ 1,326 Note receivable 829 Derivative   financial instruments, net (59 ) Total $ 2,096 In 2005, Abbott acquired the remaining interest in a small medical products company that was previously accounted for under the equity method of accounting and a less than 50 percent equity interest in a small medical products company. The aggregate cash purchase price was approximately $25 million. Acquisition accounting resulted in the recording of non-tax deductible goodwill of approximately $69million, intangible assets of approximately $22 million and a charge of approximately $17 million for acquired in-process research and development. In 2005, Abbott acquired additional rights related to HUMIRA for approximately $270 million, which are being amortized over 13 years.
In 2004, Abbott acquired TheraSense,Inc., a leader in the development, manufacturing and marketing of blood glucose self-monitoring systems, for approximately $1.2 billion in cash; i-STAT Corporation, a manufacturer of point-of-care diagnostic products for blood analysis, for approximately $394 million in cash; EAS, a nutritional company with a portfolio of nationally recognized brands, for approximately $320 million in cash; and Spine Next, a manufacturer of orthopedic spinal implant devices, for approximately $58 million in cash plus additional milestone payments of up to $23 million upon achievement of future targets. Abbott also acquired certain other product technologies for approximately $352 million. These acquisitions resulted in a charge of $271 million for acquired in-process research and development, intangible assets of approximately $1.3 billion, non-tax deductible goodwill of approximately $923 million and deferred income taxes of approximately $406 million. Acquired intangible assets, primarily trade names, are amortized over 5 to 20 years (average of approximately 14 years).
Had the above acquisitions taken place on January1 of the previous year, consolidated net sales and income would not have been significantly different from reported amounts.
38 Subsequent Event Announced Sales of Businesses On January18, 2007, Abbott announced that it had agreed to sell its core laboratory diagnostics business, including Abbott Point of Care, to GE for $8.13 billion in cash. The sale is expected to close in the first half of 2007 and is subject to customary closing conditions, including regulatory approvals. The carrying amount of the assets and liabilities included in the sale is estimated to be approximately $2.6 billion and net sales for these businesses were approximately $2.7 billion in 2006. Abbott estimates tax expense of approximately $2.0 billion will be recorded on the gain.
Financial Condition Cash Flow Net cash from operating activities of continuing operations amounted to $5.3 billion, $5.0 billion and $4.3 billion in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The increase in cash from operating activities in 2006 compared to 2005 is due to higher net earnings adjusted for after-tax non-cash charges for acquired in-process research and development and share-based compensation and higher contributions to retirement benefit plans in 2005 compared to 2006; partially offset by higher income tax payments in 2006, including tax payments related to the 2005 remittances of foreign earnings under the American Jobs Creation Act. In 2006, 2005 and 2004, $200 million, $641 million and $482 million, respectively, was contributed to the main domestic defined benefit plan. Abbott expects pension funding for its main domestic pension plan of $200million annually. The increased contribution in 2005 was due, in part, to the investment of cash remitted under the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004. Abbott expects annual cash flow from operating activities to continue to exceed Abbotts capital expenditures and cash dividends.
Debt and Capital At December31, 2006, Abbotts long-term debt rating was AA by Standard& Poors Corporation and A1 by Moodys Investors Service. Abbott has readily available financial resources, including unused lines of credit of $7.0 billion , including a $4 billion short-term facility, that support commercial paper borrowing arrangements.
Subsequent to the announced potential acquisition of Kos Pharmaceuticals Inc., Standard and Poors affirmed its current debt ratings for Abbott and maintained its current stable outlook and Moodys Investors Service affirmed its current debt ratings for Abbott and affirmed its current negative outlook.
In October2006, the board of directors authorized the purchase of $2.5 billion of Abbotts common shares from time to time and no shares were purchased under this authorization in 2006. In 2006, 2005 and 2004, Abbott purchased approximately 17.3 million, 30.0million and 11.7 million, respectively, of its common shares under prior authorizations at a cost of approximately $755 million, $1.3billion and $500million, respectively.
Under a registration statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission in February2006, Abbott issued $4.0 billion of long-term debt in 2006 that matures in 2009 through 2016 with interest rates ranging from 5.375 percent to 5.875 percent. Proceeds from this debt were used to pay down domestic commercial paper borrowings that were incurred to partially fund the acquisition of Guidants vascular intervention and endovascular solutions businesses. The acquisition of Kos Pharmaceuticals was financed primarily with commercial paper borrowings. In addition, commercial paper borrowings were used to repay $1.9 billion of long-term debt in 2006. In 2005, Abbott borrowed $1.9 billion of long-term debt that matures in May2008 with variable interest rates above LIBOR. In 2006, $1.6 billion of this debt was paid prior to maturity. In 2004, Abbott issued $1.5 billion of long-term debt that matures in 2009 through 2014 with interest rates ranging from 3.5 percent to 4.35 percent.
39 Working Capital At December31, 2006 current liabilities exceeded current assets by approximately $669 million as a result of increased short-term borrowings used to acquire Kos Pharmaceuticals in December2006. Working capital was $4.0 billion at December31, 2005 and $3.9billion at December31, 2004.
Capital Expenditures Capital expenditures of $1.3 billion in 2006, $1.2 billion in 2005 and $1.3billion in 2004 were principally for upgrading and expanding manufacturing, research and development, investments in information technology and administrative support facilities in all segments, and for laboratory instruments placed with customers.
Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes Abbotts estimated contractual obligations as of December31, 2006.
Payment Due By Period Total 2007 2008-2009 2010-2011 2012and Thereafter (dollars in millions) Long-term debt,   including current maturities and future interest payments $ 9,148 $ 432 $ 2,775 $ 2,564 $ 3,377 Operating lease   obligations 404 80 121 80 123 Capitalized auto   lease obligations 86 28 58   Purchase   commitments (a) 2,751 2,574 130 36 11 Other long-term   liabilities reflected on the consolidated balance sheet Benefit plan obligations 1,964  279 312 1,373 Other 1,141  558 207 376 Total $15,494 $3,114 $3,921 $3,199 $5,260 (a) Purchase commitments are for purchases made in the normal course of business to meet operational and capital expenditure requirements.
Contingent Obligations Abbott has periodically entered into agreements in the ordinary course of business, such as assignment of product rights, with other companies which has resulted in Abbott becoming secondarily liable for obligations that Abbott was previously primarily liable. Since Abbott no longer maintains a business relationship with the other parties, Abbott is unable to develop an estimate of the maximum potential amount of future payments, if any, under these obligations. Based upon past experience, the likelihood of payments under these agreements is remote. In addition, Abbott periodically acquires small companies or product rights in which Abbott agrees to pay contingent consideration based on attaining certain thresholds.
In connection with the acquisition of the common shares of Boston Scientific, Boston Scientific is entitled to certain after-tax gains, if any, upon Abbotts sales of the Boston Scientific shares. In addition, Abbott has retained liabilities for taxes on income prior to the spin-off of Hospira and certain potential liabilities, if any, related to alleged improper pricing practices in connection with federal, state and private reimbursement for certain drugs.
40 Recently Issued Accounting Standards In July2006, the FASB issued Interpretation No.48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes. This Interpretation requires that a recorded tax benefit must be more likely than not of being sustained upon examination by tax authorities based upon its technical merits. The amount of benefit recorded is the largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50 percent likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement. Upon adoption, any adjustment will be recorded directly to beginning retained earnings. The Interpretation is effective for Abbott beginning no later than January1, 2007. Abbott has not yet adopted the provisions of this Interpretation. The adoption of this Interpretation is not expected to have a material effect on Abbotts January1, 2007 balance sheet or the 2007 provision for income taxes.
In September2006, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No.157, Fair Value Measurements. The new statement establishes a framework for measuring fair value in generally accepted accounting principles and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. This statement is effective for fiscal years beginning after November15, 2007. Adoption of the provisions of this statement is not expected to have a material effect on the results of operations or financial position of Abbott.
Legislative Issues In August2006, the President of the United States signed the Pension Protection Act of 2006. Among other things, the Act establishes new minimum funding requirements for plan years beginning in 2008. Abbott does not expect this Act to significantly impact future fundings of its domestic defined benefit pension plans.
Abbotts primary markets are highly competitive and subject to substantial government regulation throughout the world. Abbott expects debate to continue over the availability, method of delivery, and payment for health care products and services. Abbott believes that if legislation is enacted, it could have the effect of reducing access to health care products and services, or reducing prices or the rate of price increases for health care products and services. It is not possible to predict the extent to which Abbott or the health care industry in general might be adversely affected by these factors in the future. A more complete discussion ofthese factors is contained in Item 1, Business, and Item 1A, Risk Factors on Form10-K.
Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 A Caution Concerning Forward-Looking Statements Under the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Abbott cautions investors that any forward-looking statements or projections made by Abbott, including those made in this document, are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those projected. Economic, competitive, governmental, technological and other factors that may affect Abbotts operations are discussed in 1A, Risk Factors, to the Annual Report on Form10-K .
41 ITEM7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Financial Instruments and Risk Management Investment in Boston Scientific Common Stock and Note Receivable At December31, 2006, Abbott holds 64.6 million shares, or approximately $1.0 billion of Boston Scientific common stock and has a $900 million loan to a wholly-owned subsidiary of Boston Scientific. Abbotts cost basis in the shares is approximately $1.3 billion. A hypothetical 20 percent decrease in Boston Scientifics share price would decrease the value of the Boston Scientific shares by approximately $205 million. Abbott is required to dispose of the shares by October2008. Sales of Boston Scientifics shares are limited to approximately 5.4 million shares per month until October2007. Abbott is also a creditor of Boston Scientific for the $900 million loan that is due in 2011 and, as such, is subject to credit risk. In addition, Abbott holds a derivative financial instrument liability relating to certain gain sharing aspects of the investment in Boston Scientific common stock and an interest derivative financial instrument asset relating to the loan.
Other Market Price Sensitive Investments Abbott holds available-for-sale equity securities from strategic technology acquisitions. The market value of these investments, excluding Boston Scientific, was approximately $97 million and $99million, respectively, as of December31, 2006 and 2005. Abbott monitors these investments for other than temporary declines in market value, and charges impairment losses to income when an other than temporary decline in value occurs. A hypothetical 20percent decrease in the share prices of these investments would decrease their fair value at December31, 2006 by approximately $20million. (A 20percent decrease is believed to be a reasonably possible near-term change in share prices.) Non-Publicly Traded Equity Securities Abbott holds equity securities from strategic technology acquisitions that are not traded on public stock exchanges. The carrying value of these investments was approximately $33 million and $17million as of December31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. No individual investment is in excess of $13 million. Abbott monitors these investments for other than temporary declines in market value, and charges impairment losses to income when an other than temporary decline in estimated value occurs.
Interest Rate Sensitive Financial Instruments At December31, 2006 and 2005, Abbott had interest rate hedge contracts totaling $1.5 billion to manage its exposure to changes in the fair value of debt due in 2009 through 2014. The effect of these hedges is to change the fixed interest rate to a variable rate. Abbott does not use derivative financial instruments, such as interest rate swaps, to manage its exposure to changes in interest rates for its investment securities. At December31, 2006, Abbott had $5.0 billion of domestic commercial paper outstanding with an average annual interest rate of 5.3% with an average remaining life of 38days. The fair market value of long-term debt at December31, 2006 and 2005 amounted to $7.1 billion and $6.4billion, respectively (average interest rates of 4.7% and 4.2%, respectively) with maturities through 2023. At December31, 2006 and 2005, the fair market value of current and long-term investment securities amounted to $941 million and $80million, respectively. A hypothetical 100-basis point change in the interest rates would not have a material effect on cash flows, income or market values. (A 100-basis point change is believed to be a reasonably possible near-term change in rates.) Foreign Currency Sensitive Financial Instruments Abbott enters into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to manage its exposure to foreign currency denominated intercompany loans and trade payables and third-party trade payables and 42 receivables. The contracts are marked-to-market, and resulting gains or losses are reflected in income and are generally offset by losses or gains on the foreign currency exposure being managed. At December31, 2006 and 2005, Abbott held $5.6 billion and $3.9billion, respectively, of such contracts, which mature in the next twelve months.
In addition, certain Abbott foreign subsidiaries enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to manage exposures to changes in foreign exchange rates for anticipated intercompany purchases by those subsidiaries whose functional currencies are not the U.S. dollar. These contracts are designated as cash flow hedges of the variability of the cash flows due to changes in foreign exchange rates and are marked-to-market with the resulting gains or losses reflected in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). Gains or losses will be included in Cost of products sold at the time the products are sold, generally within the next twelve months. At December31, 2006 and 2005, Abbott held $768 million and $222million, respectively, of such contracts, which all mature in the following calendar year.
The following table reflects the total foreign currency forward contracts outstanding at December31, 2006 and 2005: 2006 2005 Contract Amount Average Exchange Rate Fairand Carrying Value Receivable/ (Payable) Contract Amount Average Exchange Rate Fairand Carrying Value Receivable/ (Payable) (dollarsinmillions) Receive primarily U.S. Dollars in exchange for the following currencies: Euro $ 2,644 1.301 $ (38.4 ) $ 1,519 1.184 $ (1.4 ) British Pound 1,910 1.928 (14.4 ) 1,148 1.738 7.2 Japanese Yen 898 115.5 (3.0 ) 513 113.4 (18.4 ) Canadian Dollar 332 1.115 6.4 425 1.176 (2.1 ) All other   currencies 603 N/A (2.6 ) 487 N/A  Total $ 6,387 $ (52.0 ) $ 4,092 $ (14.7 ) 43 ITEM8.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA Page Abbott Laboratories Financial Statements: Consolidated Statement of   Earnings 45 Consolidated Statement of   Cash Flows 46 Consolidated Balance Sheet 47 Consolidated Statement of   Shareholders Investment 49 Notes to Consolidated   Financial Statements 50 Management Report on   Internal Control Over Financial Reporting 75 Reports of Independent   Registered Public Accounting Firm 76 TAP Pharmaceutical Products Inc. Financial   Statements: Consolidated Statements of   Income and Comprehensive Income 79 Consolidated Statements of   Cash Flows 80 Consolidated Balance Sheets 81 Consolidated Statements of   Shareholders Equity 82 Notes to Consolidated Financial   Statements 83 Report   of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 92 44 Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries Consolidated Statement of Earnings (dollars and shares in thousands except per share data) YearEndedDecember31 2006 2005 2004 Net Sales $ 22,476,322 $ 22,337,808 $ 19,680,016 Cost of products sold 9,815,147 10,641,111 8,884,157 Research and development 2,255,271 1,821,175 1,696,753 Acquired in-process   and collaborations research and development 2,014,000 17,131 279,006 Selling, general and   administrative 6,349,685 5,496,123 4,921,780 Total Operating Cost and Expenses 20,434,103 17,975,540 15,781,696 Operating Earnings 2,042,219 4,362,268 3,898,320 Net interest   expense 292,347 153,662 149,087 (Income) from TAP   Pharmaceutical ProductsInc. joint venture (475,811 ) (441,388 ) (374,984 ) Net foreign   exchange (gain) loss 28,441 21,804 29,059 Other (income) expense, net (79,128 ) 8,270 (30,442 ) Earnings from Continuing Operations Before Taxes 2,276,370 4,619,920 4,125,600 Taxes on Earnings from   Continuing Operations 559,615 1,247,855 949,764 Earnings from Continuing Operations 1,716,755 3,372,065 3,175,836 Earnings from Discontinued   Operations, net of taxes   60,015 Net Earnings $ 1,716,755 $ 3,372,065 $ 3,235,851 Basic Earnings Per Common   Share Continuing Operations $ 1.12 $ 2.17 $ 2.03 Discontinued Operations   0.04 Net Earnings $ 1.12 $ 2.17 $ 2.07 Diluted Earnings Per Common   Share Continuing Operations $ 1.12 $ 2.16 $ 2.02 Discontinued Operations   0.04 Net Earnings $ 1.12 $ 2.16 $ 2.06 Average Number of Common   Shares Outstanding Used for Basic Earnings Per Common Share 1,529,848 1,552,457 1,560,557 Dilutive Common   Stock Options and Awards 6,876 11,646 10,054 Average Number of Common   Shares Outstanding Plus Dilutive Common Stock Options and Awards 1,536,724 1,564,103 1,570,611 Outstanding   Common Stock Options Having No Dilutive Effect 23,567 22,469 44,005 The accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements are an integral part of this statement.
45 Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows (dollars in thousands) YearEndedDecember31 2006 2005 2004 Cash Flow From (Used in)   Operating Activities of Continuing Operations: Net earnings $ 1,716,755 $ 3,372,065 $ 3,235,851 Less: Earnings from discontinued operations, net of   taxes   60,015 Earnings from continuing operations 1,716,755 3,372,065 3,175,836 Adjustments to reconcile   earnings from continuing operations to net cash from operating activities of   continuing operations Depreciation 983,485 868,808 840,591 Amortization of intangible assets 575,265 490,131 448,109 Share-based compensation 329,957 30,140 28,989 Acquired in-process research and development 1,927,300 17,131 279,006 Investing and financing (gains) losses, net 277,388 125,328 47,400 Trade receivables (101,781 ) (98,216 ) (588,575 ) Inventories 104,653 (88,257 ) (285,328 ) Prepaid expenses and other assets (283,455 ) (406,858 ) (431,436 ) Trade accounts payable and other liabilities (183,203 ) 199,703 602,605 Income taxes (84,275 ) 537,429 188,826 Net Cash From Operating Activities of Continuing   Operations 5,262,089 5,047,404 4,306,023 Cash Flow From (Used in) Investing   Activities of Continuing Operations: Acquisitions of businesses and technologies, net of   cash acquired (7,923,163 ) (295,123 ) (2,327,821 ) Investment in Boston Scientific common stock, note   receivable and derivative financial instruments (2,095,780 )   Acquisitions of property and equipment (1,337,818 ) (1,207,493 ) (1,291,633 ) Other purchases of investment securities (33,632 ) (15,670 ) (543,292 ) Proceeds from sales of investment securities 18,476 783,599 224,923 Other (25,712 ) 14,600 14,433 Net Cash (Used in) Investing Activities of Continuing   Operations (11,397,629 ) (720,087 ) (3,923,390 ) Cash Flow From (Used in)   Financing Activities of Continuing Operations: Proceeds from (repayments of) commercial paper, net 5,004,000 (1,619,000 ) 813,000 Proceeds from issuance of long-term debt 4,000,000 1,851,013 1,500,000 Repayment of long-term debt (3,532,408 ) (150,000 ) (1,650,000 ) Other borrowing transactions, net 179,225 90,820 142,998 Purchases of common shares (754,502 ) (1,302,314 ) (499,745 ) Proceeds from stock options exercised, including   income tax benefit 502,782 223,637 155,197 Dividends paid (1,777,170 ) (1,686,472 ) (1,599,770 ) Net Cash From (Used in) Financing Activities of   Continuing Operations 3,621,927 (2,592,316 ) (1,138,320 ) Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash   equivalents 73,966 (193,954 ) 184,271 Net cash provided by operating activities of   discontinued operations and cash (used in) from investing and financing   activities of $(59,088) and $700,000 in 2004, respectively 67,152 127,012 801,920 Net (Decrease) Increase in Cash and Cash Equivalents (2,372,495 ) 1,668,059 230,504 Cash and Cash Equivalents, Beginning of Year 2,893,687 1,225,628 995,124 Cash and Cash   Equivalents, End of Year $ 521,192 $ 2,893,687 $ 1,225,628 The accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements are an integral part of this statement.
46 Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries Consolidated Balance Sheet (dollars in thousands) December31 2006 2005 2004 Assets Current Assets: Cash and cash   equivalents $ 521,192 $ 2,893,687 $ 1,225,628 Investments 852,243 62,406 833,334 Trade   receivables, less allowances of 2006: $215,443; 2005: $203,683; 2004:   $231,704 4,231,142 3,576,794 3,696,115 Inventories Finished products 1,338,349 1,203,557 1,488,939 Work in process 686,425 630,267 582,787 Materials 781,647 708,155 548,737 Total inventories 2,806,421 2,541,979 2,620,463 Deferred income   taxes 1,716,916 1,248,569 1,031,746 Other prepaid   expenses and receivables 1,153,969 932,691 1,080,143 Assets held for   sale  129,902 247,056 Total Current Assets 11,281,883 11,386,028 10,734,485 Investments 1,229,873 134,013 145,849 Property and   Equipment, at Cost: Land 488,342 370,949 338,428 Buildings 3,228,485 2,655,356 2,519,492 Equipment 9,947,503 8,813,517 8,681,655 Construction in   progress 737,609 920,599 962,114 14,401,939 12,760,421 12,501,689 Less: accumulated   depreciation and amortization 7,455,504 6,757,280 6,493,815 Net Property and Equipment 6,946,435 6,003,141 6,007,874 Intangible Assets, net of amortization 6,403,619 4,741,647 5,171,594 Goodwill 9,449,281 5,219,247 5,685,124 Deferred Income   Taxes and Other Assets 867,081 1,624,201 952,929 Assets Held for   Sale  32,926 69,639 $ 36,178,172 $ 29,141,203 $ 28,767,494 47 Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries Consolidated Balance Sheet (dollars in thousands) December31 2006 2005 2004 Liabilities   and Shareholders Investment Current Liabilities: Short-term   borrowings $ 5,305,985 $ 212,447 $ 1,836,649 Trade accounts   payable 1,175,590 1,032,516 1,054,464 Salaries, wages   and commissions 807,283 625,254 637,333 Other accrued   liabilities 3,850,723 2,722,685 2,491,956 Dividends payable 453,994 423,335 405,730 Income taxes   payable 262,344 488,926 156,417 Current portion   of long-term debt 95,276 1,849,563 156,034 Liabilities of   operations held for sale  60,788 87,061 Total Current Liabilities 11,951,195 7,415,514 6,825,644 Long-term Debt 7,009,664 4,571,504 4,787,934 Post-employment Obligations and Other Long-term   Liabilities 3,163,127 2,154,775 2,606,410 Liabilities of Operations Held for Sale  1,062 1,644 Deferred Income Taxes  583,077 220,079 Commitments and Contingencies Shareholders Investment: Preferred shares,   one dollar par value Authorized 1,000,000 shares, none issued    Common shares, without par value Authorized 2,400,000,000 shares Issued at stated capital amount Shares: 2006: 1,550,590,438; 2005: 1,553,769,958; 2004: 1,575,147,418 4,290,929 3,477,460 3,189,465 Common shares held in treasury, at cost Shares: 2006: 13,347,272; 2005: 14,534,979; 2004: 15,123,800 (195,237 ) (212,255 ) (220,854 ) Earnings employed   in the business 9,568,728 10,404,568 10,033,440 Accumulated other   comprehensive income (loss) 389,766 745,498 1,323,732 Total Shareholders Investment 14,054,186 14,415,271 14,325,783 $ 36,178,172 $ 29,141,203 $ 28,767,494 The accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements are an integral part of this statement.
48 Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries Consolidated Statement of Shareholders Investment (dollars in thousands except per share data) YearEndedDecember31 2006 2005 2004 Common Shares: Beginning of Year Shares:   2006: 1,553,769,958; 2005: 1,575,147,418; 2004:1,580,247,227 $ 3,477,460 $ 3,189,465 $ 2,977,718 Issued under incentive   stock programs Shares:   2006: 14,456,341; 2005: 8,752,085; 2004: 6,811,550 526,435 299,329 208,880 Tax benefit from option shares and vesting of restricted stock awards(no   share effect) 42,062 52,363 22,871 Share-based compensation 337,428 28,731 28,725 Issuance of restricted stock awards (52,392 ) (27,125 ) (25,528 ) Retired Shares: 2006: 17,635,861; 2005: 30,129,545; 2004:   11,911,359 (40,064 ) (65,303 ) (23,201 ) End of Year Shares:   2006: 1,550,590,438; 2005: 1,553,769,958; 2004: 1,575,147,418 $ 4,290,929 $ 3,477,460 $ 3,189,465 Common Shares Held in   Treasury: Beginning of Year Shares:   2006: 14,534,979; 2005: 15,123,800; 2004: 15,729,296 $ (212,255 ) $ (220,854 ) $ (229,696 ) Issued under incentive   stock programs Shares:   2006: 1,197,838; 2005: 588,821; 2004: 605,496 17,492 8,599 8,842 Purchased Shares: 2006: 10,131 (474 )   End of Year Shares:   2006: 13,347,272; 2005: 14,534,979; 2004: 15,123,800 $ (195,237 ) $ (212,255 ) $ (220,854 ) Earnings Employed in the   Business: Beginning of Year $ 10,404,568 $ 10,033,440 $ 9,691,484 Net earnings 1,716,755 3,372,065 3,235,851 Cash dividends declared on common shares (per share 2006:   $1.18;2005: $1.10; 2004: $1.04) (1,807,829 ) (1,704,077 ) (1,622,148 ) Spin-off of Hospira,Inc.
(761,916 ) Cost of common shares retired in excess of stated capital amount (780,152 ) (1,315,397 ) (527,197 ) Cost of treasury shares issued below market value 35,386 18,537 17,366 End of Year $ 9,568,728 $ 10,404,568 $ 10,033,440 Accumulated   Other Comprehensive Income (Loss): Beginning of Year $ 745,498 $ 1,323,732 $ 632,752 Other comprehensive income (loss) and spin-off of Hospira,Inc.
898,266 (578,234 ) 690,980 End of Year, before adoption of new accounting standard 1,643,764 745,498 1,323,732 Adjustment to recognize net actuarial gain (loss) and prior service   cost as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income(loss),   net of tax (1,253,998 )   End of Year $ 389,766 $ 745,498 $ 1,323,732 Comprehensive   Income $ 2,615,021 $ 2,793,831 $ 3,906,932 The accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements are an integral part of this statement.
49 Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Note1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies NATURE OF BUSINESS Abbotts principal business is the discovery, development, manufacture and sale of a broad line of health care products.
CONCENTRATION OF RISK AND GUARANTEES Due to the nature of its operations, Abbott is not subject to significant concentration risks relating to customers, products or geographic locations, except that three U.S. wholesalers accounted for 23 percent, 24 percent and 20 percent of trade receivables as of December31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Product warranties are not significant.
Abbott has no material exposures to off-balance sheet arrangements; no special purpose entities; nor activities that include non-exchange-traded contracts accounted for at fair value, except the derivative financial instruments related to the investment in the Boston Scientific common stock and loan. Abbott has periodically entered into agreements in the ordinary course of business, such as assignment of product rights, with other companies which has resulted in Abbott becoming secondarily liable for obligations that Abbott was previously primarily liable. Since Abbott no longer maintains a business relationship with the other parties, Abbott is unable to develop an estimate of the maximum potential amount of future payments, if any, under these obligations. Based upon past experience, the likelihood of payments under these agreements is remote. Abbott periodically acquires small companies or product rights in which Abbott agrees to pay contingent consideration based on attaining certain thresholds. In connection with the spin-off of Hospira, Abbott has retained liabilities for taxes on income prior to the spin-off and certain potential liabilities, if any, related to alleged improper pricing practices in connection with federal, state and private reimbursement for certain drugs.
BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the parent company and subsidiaries, after elimination of intercompany transactions. The accounts of foreign subsidiaries are consolidated as of November30, due to the time needed to consolidate these subsidiaries. In December2005, certain foreign subsidiaries borrowed approximately $1.4 billion. These borrowings and related interest expense have been reflected on the December31, 2005 Consolidated Balance Sheet and 2005 Consolidated Statement of Earnings. No other events occurred related to these foreign subsidiaries in December2006, 2005 and 2004 that materially affected the financial position, results of operations or cash flows.
USE OF ESTIMATES The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States and necessarily include amounts based on estimates and assumptions by management. Actual results could differ from those amounts. Significant estimates include amounts for sales rebates, income taxes, pension and other post-employment benefits, valuation of intangible assets, litigation, share-based compensation, derivative financial instruments, and inventory and accounts receivable exposures.
REVENUE RECOGNITION Revenue from product sales is recognized upon passage of title and risk of loss to customers. Provisions for discounts, rebates and sales incentives to customers, and returns and other adjustments are provided for in the period the related sales are recorded. Sales incentives to customers are not material. Historical data is readily available and reliable, and is used for estimating the amount of the reduction in gross sales. Revenue from the launch of a new product, from an improved version of an existing product, or for shipments in excess of a customers normal requirements are recorded when the conditions noted above are met. In those situations, management records a returns reserve for such revenue, if necessary. Sales of product rights for marketable products are recorded as revenue upon disposition of the rights. Revenue from license of product rights, or for performance of research or selling activities, is recorded over the periods earned.
50 Note 1  Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued) INCOME TAXES Deferred income taxes are provided for the tax effect of differences between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their reported amounts in the financial statements at the enacted statutory rate to be in effect when the taxes are paid. U.S. income taxes are provided on those earnings of foreign subsidiaries which are intended to be remitted to the parent company. Except for taxes on dividends that were remitted under the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, deferred income taxes are not provided on undistributed earnings reinvested indefinitely in foreign subsidiaries as working capital and plant and equipment. Loss contingency provisions are recorded for the estimated amount of audit settlements under the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No.5, Accounting for Contingencies.
PENSION AND POST-EMPLOYMENT BENEFITSAbbott accrues for the actuarially determined cost of pension and post-employment benefits over the service attribution periods of the employees. Abbott must develop long-term assumptions, the most significant of which are the health care costs trend rate, discount rate and the expected return on plan assets. Differences between the expected long-term return on plan assets and the actual return are amortized over a five-year period. Actuarial losses and gains are amortized over the remaining service attribution periods of the employees under the corridor method. On December31, 2006, Abbott adopted the provisions of SFAS No.158, Employers Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans. The new statement requires immediate recognition of the deferrals on the balance sheet with a corresponding charge to Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). Adoption of this statement on December31, 2006 resulted in a decrease in Abbotts shareholders equity of approximately $1.3 billion.
VALUATION OF INTANGIBLE ASSETS Purchased intangible assets are recorded at fair value. The fair value of significant purchased intangible assets is based on independent appraisals. Abbott uses a discounted cash flow model to value intangible assets. The discounted cash flow model requires assumptions about the timing and amount of future net cash inflows, risk, the cost of capital and terminal values. Intangible assets and goodwill are reviewed for impairment at least on a quarterly and annual basis, respectively.
SHARE-BASED COMPENSATION Through December31, 2005, Abbott measured compensation cost using the intrinsic value-based method of accounting for stock options and replacement stock options granted to employees.
Restricted stock awards and units have been amortized over their vesting period with a charge to compensation expense.
In 2006, Abbott adopted SFAS No.123 (revised 2004), Share-Based Payment, which requires that the fair value of stock options be recorded in the results of operations.
LITIGATION Abbott accounts for litigation losses in accordance with SFAS No.5. Under SFASNo.5, loss contingency provisions are recorded for probable losses at managements best estimate of a loss, or when a best estimate cannot be made, a minimum loss contingency amount is recorded.
CASH, CASH EQUIVALENTS AND INVESTMENTS Cash equivalents consist of time deposits and certificates of deposit with original maturities of three months or less. Investments in marketable equity securities are classified as available-for-sale and are recorded at fair value with any unrealized holding gains or losses, net of tax, included in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). Investments in equity securities that are not traded on public stock exchanges are recorded at cost. Abbott monitors equity investments for other than temporary declines in fair value and charges impairment losses to income when an other than temporary decline in estimated value occurs. Investments in debt securities are classified as held-to-maturity, as management has both the intent and ability to hold these securities to maturity, and are reported at cost, net of any unamortized premium or discount. Income relating to these securities is reported as a component of interest income.
51 Note 1  Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued) Abbott reviews the carrying value of investments in equity securities each quarter to determine whether an other than temporary decline in market value exists. Abbott considers factors affecting the investee, factors affecting the industry the investee operates in, and general equity market trends. Abbott considers the length of time an investments market value has been below carrying value and the near-term prospects for recovery to carrying value. When Abbott determines that an other than temporary decline has occurred, the investment is written down with a charge to Other (income) expense, net.
INVENTORIES Inventories are stated at the lower of cost (first-in, first-out basis) or market. Cost includes material and conversion costs.
PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT Depreciation and amortization are provided on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the assets. The following table shows estimated useful lives of property and equipment: Classification EstimatedUsefulLives Buildings 10   to 50years (average 27years) Equipment 3 to 20years (average   11years) PRODUCT LIABILITY Abbott accrues for product liability claims, on an undiscounted basis, when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the liability can be reasonably estimated based on existing information. The liabilities are adjusted quarterly as additional information becomes available. Receivables for insurance recoveries for product liability claims are recorded as assets, on an undiscounted basis, when it is probable that a recovery will be realized. Abbott carries third-party insurance coverage in amounts that reflect historical loss experience, which does not include coverage for catastrophic losses.
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT COSTS Internal research and development costs are expensed as incurred. Clinical trial costs incurred by third parties are expensed as the contracted work is performed. Where contingent milestone payments are due to third parties under research and development arrangements, the milestone payment obligations are expensed when the milestone results are achieved.
Note2 Supplemental Financial Information (dollars in thousands) 2006 2005 2004 Current   Investments: Time deposits and   certificates of deposit $ 76,994 $ 62,406 $ 833,334 Boston Scientific   common stock 775,249   Total $ 852,243 $ 62,406 $ 833,334 2006 2005 2004 Long-term   Investments: Boston Scientific   common stock $ 248,049 $  $  Other equity   securities 129,830 116,447 125,541 Note receivable   from Boston Scientific, 4% interest 837,260   Other 14,734 17,566 20,308 Total $ 1,229,873 $ 134,013 $ 145,849 The cost basis of the Boston Scientific shares accounted for as available-for-sale securities as of December31, 2006, is $1,326,000. The fair value of the available-for-sale shares was $1,023,000 at 52 Note 2  Supplemental Financial Information (dollars in thousands) (Continued) December31, 2006, resulting in a charge of $182,000 to Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), net of income tax benefits of $121,000.
The decline in the fair value of the Boston Scientific shares, as noted above, is considered by management to be temporary as these shares have been owned by Abbott for a relatively short period of time and Abbott has both the ability and intent to hold the shares for a period of time to allow for the decline in value to reverse.
2006 2005 2004 Other Accrued   Liabilities: Accrued rebates   payable to government agencies $ 660,875 $ 620,300 $ 519,653 Accrued other   rebates (a) 390,863 206,514 202,363 All other 2,798,985 1,895,871 1,769,940 Total $ 3,850,723 $ 2,722,685 $ 2,491,956 (a) Accrued wholesaler chargeback rebates of $122,729, $83,551 and $72,634 at December31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively, are netted in trade receivables. Accrued wholesaler chargeback rebates are netted in trade receivables because Abbotts customers are invoiced at a higher catalog price but only remit to Abbott their contract price for the products.
2006 2005 2004 Post-employment   Obligations and Other Long-term Liabilities: Defined benefit   pension plans and post-employment medical and dental plans for   significant plans $ 1,897,525 $ 1,087,159 $ 1,246,006 Minimum pension   liability adjustments  15,003 577,432 All other 1,265,602 1,052,613 782,972 Total $ 3,163,127 $ 2,154,775 $ 2,606,410 2006 2005 2004 Net Interest Expense: Interest expense $ 416,172 $ 241,355 $ 200,206 Interest income (123,825 ) (87,693 ) (51,119 ) Total $ 292,347 $ 153,662 $ 149,087 53 Note 2  Supplemental Financial Information (dollars in thousands) (Continued) The increase in Other (income) expense, net for 2006 is primarily due to fair-value gain adjustments to certain derivative financial instruments related to the investment in Boston Scientific common stock.
2006 2005 2004 Comprehensive Income,   net of tax: Foreign currency   gain (loss) translation adjustments $ 1,033,968 $ (953,726 ) $ 861,139 Minimum pension   liability adjustments, net of taxes of $(3,600) in 2006, $(199,100) in 2005   and $45,700 in 2004 5,361 346,172 (75,947 ) Unrealized   (losses) on marketable equity   securities, net of income taxes of $(118,500), $(6,100) and $(29,100) in   2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively (175,891 ) (9,219 ) (43,613 ) Net adjustments   for derivative instruments designated as cash flow hedges 36,659 38,574 (39,951 ) Reclassification   adjustments for realized (gains) (1,831 ) (35 ) (30,547 ) Other comprehensive income (loss) 898,266 (578,234 ) 671,081 Net Earnings 1,716,755 3,372,065 3,235,851 Comprehensive   Income $ 2,615,021 $ 2,793,831 $ 3,906,932 2006 2005 2004 Supplemental   Comprehensive Income Information, net of tax: Cumulative   foreign currency translation (gain) adjustments $ (1,795,143 ) $ (761,175 ) $ (1,714,901 ) Cumulative   minimum pension liability adjustments  8,931 355,103 Net actuarial   losses and prior service cost and credits, net 1,257,568   Cumulative   unrealized losses (gains) on marketable equity securities 169,275 (8,447 ) (17,701 ) Cumulative (gains)   losses on derivative instruments designated as cash flow hedges (21,466 ) 15,193 53,767 On December31, 2006, Abbott adopted the provisions of SFAS No.158 Employers Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans. Adoption of this statement resulted in a decrease in Abbotts shareholders equity of $1,257,568, net of taxes of approximately $733,000.
2006 2005 2004 Supplemental Cash   Flow Information: Income taxes paid $ 1,281,711 $ 746,504 $ 675,728 Interest paid 428,868 213,067 197,554 Note3 Financial Instruments and Derivatives Certain Abbott foreign subsidiaries enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to manage exposures to changes in foreign exchange rates for anticipated intercompany purchases by those subsidiaries whose functional currencies are not the U.S. dollar. These contracts, totaling $768 million, $222million and $984 million at December31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively, are designated as cash flow hedges of the variability of the cash flows due to changes in foreign exchange rates .
Abbott records the contracts at fair value, resulting in credits of $15.9 million and $38.6 million to Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) in 2006 and 2005, respectively, and a charge of $40.0 million in 2004. Ineffectiveness recorded in 2006, 2005 or 2004 was not significant. Accumulated gains and losses as of December31, 2006 will be included in Cost of products sold at the time the products are sold, generally through the next twelve months.
54 Note 3  Financial Instruments and Derivatives (Continued) Abbott enters into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to manage currency exposures for foreign currency denominated third-party trade payables and receivables, and for intercompany loans and trade accounts payable where the receivable or payable is denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the entity. For intercompany loans, the contracts require Abbott to sell or buy foreign currencies, primarily European currencies and Japanese yen, in exchange for primarily U.S. dollars and other European currencies. For intercompany and trade payables and receivables, the currency exposures are primarily the U.S. dollar, European currencies and Japanese yen. These contracts are recorded at fair value, with the resulting gains or losses reflected in income as Net foreign exchange (gain) loss. At December31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, Abbott held $5.6billion, $3.9billion and $3.3billion, respectively, of such foreign currency forward exchange contracts.
Abbott is a party to interest rate hedge contracts totaling $1.5 billion to manage its exposure to changes in the fair value of $1.5 billion of fixed-rate debt due 2009 through 2014. These contracts are designated as fair value hedges of the variability of the fair value of fixed-rate debt due to changes in the long-term benchmark interest rates. The effect of the hedge is to change a fixed-rate interest obligation to a variable rate for that portion of the debt. Abbott records the contracts at fair value and adjusts the carrying amount of the fixed-rate debt by an offsetting amount. No hedge ineffectiveness was recorded in income in 2006, 2005 and 2004.
In connection with the acquisition of the common shares of Boston Scientific, Boston Scientific is entitled to certain after-tax gains upon Abbotts sale of the common shares. In addition, Boston Scientific agreed to reimburse Abbott for certain borrowing costs on debt incurred to acquire the Boston Scientific shares.
Gross unrealized holding gains (losses) on available-for-sale equity securities totaled $21,100,000 and $(304,000,000), respectively, at December31, 2006; $17,700,000 and $(3,500,000), respectively, at December31, 2005 and $30,800,000and $(1,100,000), respectively, at December31, 2004.
55 Note 3  Financial Instruments and Derivatives (Continued) The carrying values and fair values of certain financial instruments as of December31 are shown in the table below. The carrying values of all other financial instruments approximate their estimated fair values. Fair value is the quoted market price of the instrument held or the quoted market price of a similar instrument. The counter parties to financial instruments consist of select major international financial institutions. Abbott does not expect any losses from nonperformance by these counter parties.
2006 2005 2004 Carrying Value FairValue Carrying Value FairValue Carrying Value FairValue (dollarsinmillions) Current Investments: Available-for-Sale   Equity Securities $ 775.2 $ 775.2 $  $  $  $  Other 77.0 77.0 62.4 62.4 833.3 833.3 Long-term Investments: Available-for-Sale   Equity Securities 377.9 377.9 116.4 116.4 125.5 125.5 Note Receivable 837.3 849.1     Other 14.7 14.5 17.6 17.5 20.3 20.6 Total Long-term   Debt (7,104.9 ) (7,113.2 ) (6,421.1 ) (6,375.1 ) (4,944.0 ) (5,012.6 ) Foreign Currency Forward Exchange Contracts: (Payable) position (85.6 ) (85.6 ) (33.5 ) (33.5 ) (117.1 ) (117.1 ) Receivable position 33.6 33.6 18.8 18.8 37.2 37.2 Interest Rate Hedge   Contracts (84.5 ) (84.5 ) (82.4 ) (82.4 ) (3.7 ) (3.7 ) Boston Scientific   derivative financial instruments (11.4 ) (11.4 )     56 Note4 Post-Employment Benefits (dollars in thousands) Retirement plans consist of defined benefit, defined contribution, and medical and dental plans. Information for Abbotts major defined benefit plans and post-employment medical and dental benefit plans is as follows: DefinedBenefitPlans MedicalandDentalPlans 2006 2005 2004 2006 2005 2004 Projected benefit obligations, January1 $ 5,041,086 $ 4,753,225 $ 4,646,321 $ 1,292,301 $ 1,112,124 $ 1,241,845 Service cost benefits earned duringthe   year 218,662 205,286 187,146 55,618 43,554 34,628 Interest cost on projected benefit obligations 275,389 259,709 253,249 79,988 64,088 64,054 Losses (gains), primarily changes in discount andmedical   trend rates, plan design changes,law   changes and differences between actual andestimated health care costs 64,003 142,453 174,669 133,766 138,442 (44,707 ) Benefits paid (212,630 ) (195,964 ) (191,543 ) (67,511 ) (65,907 ) (67,232 ) Acquisitions in 2006 and spin-off of Hospira in2004 86,024  (425,069 ) 26,250  (116,464 ) Other, primarily foreign currency translation 141,526 (123,623 ) 108,452    Projected benefit obligations, December31 $ 5,614,060 $ 5,041,086 $ 4,753,225 $ 1,520,412 $ 1,292,301 $ 1,112,124 Plans assets at fair value, January1 $ 4,348,779 $ 3,465,666 $ 3,017,732 $ 149,080 $  $  Actual return on plans assets 507,223 384,912 285,794 22,955 9,080  Company contributions 266,269 755,982 565,909 107,511 205,907 67,232 Benefits paid (212,630 ) (195,964 ) (191,543 ) (67,511 ) (65,907 ) (67,232 ) Acquisitions in 2006 and spin-off of Hospira in2004 92,760  (262,109 )    Other, primarily foreign currency translation 83,225 (61,817 ) 49,883    Plans assets at fair value, December31 $ 5,085,626 $ 4,348,779 $ 3,465,666 $ 212,035 $ 149,080 $  Projected benefit obligations greater than plans assets, December31 $ (528,434 ) $ (692,307 ) $ (1,287,559 ) $ (1,308,377 ) $ (1,143,221 ) $ (1,112,124 ) Unrecognized actuarial losses, net 1,501,409 1,494,915 697,717 587,976 Unrecognized prior service cost (credits) 5,004 (5,835 ) (264,499 ) (285,659 ) Net prepaid (accrued) benefit cost $ 814,106 $ 201,521 $ (710,003 ) $ (809,807 ) Long-term assets $ 84,266 $  Short-term liabilities (23,552 )  Long-term liabilities (589,148 ) (1,308,377 ) Net liability $ (528,434 ) $ (1,308,377 ) Accrued benefit cost $ (463,789 ) $ (617,533 ) $ (710,003 ) $ (809,807 ) Prepaid benefit cost 1,262,892 241,622   Intangible assets 130 17,261   Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) 14,873 560,171   Net prepaid (accrued) benefit cost $ 814,106 $ 201,521 $ (710,003 ) $ (809,807 ) Amounts Recognized in AccumulatedOther   ComprehensiveIncome (loss): Actuariallosses,net $ 1,343,052 $ 785,778 Prior service cost (credits) 42,659 (248,947 ) Total $ 1,385,711 $ 536,831 57 Note 4  Post-Employment Benefits (dollars in thousands) (Continued) DefinedBenefitPlans MedicalandDentalPlans 2006 2005 2004 2006 2005 2004 Service   cost benefits earned during the year $ 218,662 $ 205,286 $ 187,146 $ 55,618 $ 43,554 $ 34,628 Interest cost on   projected benefit obligations 275,389 259,709 253,249 79,988 64,088 64,054 Expected return   on plans assets (382,220 ) (360,304 ) (295,294 ) (16,253 ) (11,948 )  Amortization of   actuarial losses 78,288 65,744 29,776 44,612 31,569 27,453 Amortization of   prior service cost (credits) 341 68 1,033 (21,160 ) (21,160 ) (21,803 ) Total cost 190,460 170,503 175,910 142,805 106,103 104,332 Discontinued   operations   (9,781 )   (14,349 ) Net cost of continuing   operations $ 190,460 $ 170,503 $ 166,129 $ 142,805 $ 106,103 $ 89,983 The pretax amount of actuarial losses and prior service cost (credits) included in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) at December31, 2006, that is expected to be recognized in the net periodic benefit cost in 2007 is $80,900 and $3,300, respectively, for defined benefit pension plans and $48,500 and $(21,500), respectively, for medical and dental plans.
On December31, 2006, Abbott adopted the provisions of SFAS No.158, Employers Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans. The provisions of this standard require the immediate recognition of deferrals on the balance sheet with a corresponding charge to Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). The following table summarizes significant changes in balance sheet line items before and after the adoption of the provisions of this standard.
BalanceSheetCaption BalancesBefore Adoptionof Standard Adjustments BalancesAfter Adoptionof Standard Deferred Income   Taxes and Other Assets $ 1,820,785 $ (953,704 ) $ 867,081 Post-employment   Obligations and Other Long-term Liabilities 2,450,643 712,484 3,163,127 Deferred income   tax liabilities 366,655 (366,655 )  Accumulated Other   Comprehensive Income (loss) 1,643,764 (1,253,998 ) 389,766 Total   Shareholders Investment 15,308,184 (1,253,998 ) 14,054,186 Total Assets and Total   Liabilities and Shareholders Investment 37,129,740 (951,568 ) 36,178,172 The projected benefit obligations for non-U.S. defined benefit plans was $1,483,000, $1,148,000 and $1,132,000 at December31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The accumulated benefit obligations for all defined benefit plans was $4,738,000, $4,158,000 and $3,954,000 at December31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. For plans where the accumulated benefit obligations exceeded plan assets at December31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, the aggregate accumulated benefit obligations were $544,000, $465,000 and $3,053,000, respectively; the projected benefit obligations were $592,000, $508,000 and $3,738,000, respectively; and the aggregate plan assets were $22,000, $5,000 and $2,909,000, respectively.
58 Note 4  Post-Employment Benefits (dollars in thousands) (Continued) The weighted average assumptions used to determine benefit obligations for defined benefit plans and medical and dental plans as of December31, the measurement date of the plans, are as follows: 2006 2005 2004 Discount rate 5.7 % 5.5 % 5.6 % Expected aggregate   average long-term change in compensation 4.2 % 4.2 % 4.2 % The weighted average assumptions used to determine the net cost for defined benefit plans and medical and dental plans are as follows: 2006 2005 2004 Discount rate 5.5 % 5.6 % 6.0 % Expected return   on plan assets 8.5 % 8.4 % 8.4 % Expected aggregate average   long-term change in compensation 4.2 % 4.2 % 4.2 % The assumed health care cost trend rates for medical and dental plans at December31 were as follows: 2006 2005 2004 Health care cost   trend rate assumed for the next year 7% 7% 7% Rate that the   cost trend rate gradually declines to 5% 5% 5% Year that rate reaches   the assumed ultimate rate 2012 2012 2007 The discount rate used to measure liabilities as of December31, 2006 and 2005 was determined based on high-quality fixed income securities that match the duration of the expected retiree benefits. Prior to December31, 2005, the discount rate was determined by reference to a composite corporate AA bond index. The health care cost trend rate represents Abbotts expected annual rates of change in the cost of health care benefits and is a forward projection of health care costs as of the measurement date. A one-percentage point increase/(decrease) in the assumed health care cost trend rate would increase/(decrease) the accumulated post-employment benefit obligations as of December31, 2006, by $245,400/$(196,800), and the total of the service and interest cost components of net post-employment health care cost for the year then ended by approximately $26,200/$(20,400).
In 2004, Abbott reflected the requirements of Financial Accounting Standards Board Staff Position No.106-2, Accounting and Disclosure Requirements Related to the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003. As a result, the projected benefit obligations related to benefits attributed to past service were reduced by approximately $210,000 and the net cost recognized in 2004 was reduced by approximately $33,000.
The weighted average asset allocation for Abbotts U.S. defined benefit plans and medical and dental plans by asset category is shown in the table below. Abbotts international defined benefit plans have similar equity content.
2006 2005 2004 Asset Category: Equity securities 75 % 74 % 73 % Fixed income   securities 25 26 27 Total 100 % 100 % 100 % 59 Note 4  Post-Employment Benefits (dollars in thousands) (Continued) The investment mix between equity securities and fixed income securities is based upon achieving a desired return, balancing higher return, more volatile equity securities, and lower return, less volatile fixed income securities. Abbotts domestic plans are invested in diversified portfolios of public-market equity and fixed income securities. Investment allocations are made across a range of markets, industry sectors, capitalization sizes, and, in the case of fixed income securities, maturities and credit quality. The plans do not directly hold any securities of Abbott. Abbotts international defined benefit plans are invested in a corresponding manner, with some variance in portfolio structure around local practices.
The plans expected return on assets, as shown above, is based on managements expectations of long-term average rates of return to be achieved by the underlying investment portfolios. In establishing this assumption, management considers historical and expected returns for the asset classes in which the plans are invested, as well as current economic and capital market conditions.
Abbott funds its domestic pension plans according to IRS funding limitations. In 2006, 2005 and 2004, $200,000, $641,000 and $482,000, respectively, was funded to the main domestic pension plan .
International pension plans are funded according to similar regulations. Abbott expects pension funding for its main domestic pension plan of $200million annually.
Total benefit payments expected to be paid to participants, which includes payments funded from company assets as well as paid from the plans, are as follows: Defined BenefitPlans Medicaland DentalPlans 2007 $ 218,600 $ 69,000 2008 230,000 73,000 2009 233,300 78,600 2010 242,400 84,500 2011 253,300 90,800 2012 to 2016 1,513,500 527,500 The Abbott Stock Retirement Plan is the principal defined contribution plan. Abbotts contributions to this plan were $102,000 in 2006, $100,000 in 2005 and $97,000 in 2004.
Abbott provides certain other post-employment benefits, primarily salary continuation plans, to qualifying domestic employees, and accrues for the related cost over the service lives of the employees.
60 Note5 Taxes on Earnings (dollars in thousands) Deferred income taxes reflect the tax consequences on future years of differences between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their financial reporting amounts. U.S. income taxes are provided on those earnings of foreign subsidiaries, which are intended to be remitted to the parent company. Except for taxes on dividends that were remitted under the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, Abbott does not record deferred income taxes on earnings reinvested indefinitely in foreign subsidiaries. Undistributed earnings reinvested indefinitely in foreign subsidiaries as working capital and plant and equipment aggregated $7,319,000 at December31, 2006. It is not practicable to determine the amount of deferred income taxes not provided on these earnings. Abbott has recorded reserves for income tax loss contingencies in accordance with SFAS No.5. The maximum possible loss in excess of the recorded reserves is not material. In the U.S., Abbotts federal income tax returns through 2003 are settled, and the income tax returns for years after 2003 are open.
Earnings from continuing operations before taxes, and the related provisions for taxes on earnings from continuing operations, were as follows: 2006 2005 2004 Earnings From Continuing   Operations Before Taxes Domestic $ (868,384 ) $ 2,068,232 $ 2,278,180 Foreign 3,144,754 2,551,688 1,847,420 Total $ 2,276,370 $ 4,619,920 $ 4,125,600 2006 2005 2004 Taxes on Earnings From   Continuing Operations Current: U.S. Federal and   Possessions $ 491,579 $ 526,213 $ 172,322 State 17,352 89,483 43,456 Foreign 633,947 616,118 461,740 Total current 1,142,878 1,231,814 677,518 Deferred: Domestic (544,678 ) 4,709 295,030 Foreign (35,564 ) 17,035 (24,272 ) Enacted tax rate   changes (3,021 ) (5,703 ) 1,488 Total deferred (583,263 ) 16,041 272,246 Total $ 559,615 $ 1,247,855 $ 949,764 61 Note 5  Taxes on Earnings (dollars in thousands) (Continued) Differences between the effective income tax rate and the U.S. statutory tax rate were as follows: 2006 2005 2004 Statutory tax   rate on earnings from continuing operations 35.0 % 35.0 % 35.0 % Benefit of lower   tax rates and tax exemptions in Puerto Rico, the Netherlands and Ireland (18.4 ) (6.4 ) (7.8 ) Effect of taxes   on remittances of foreign earnings in connection with theAmerican Jobs   Creation Act of 2004  5.3  Effect of   nondeductible acquired in-process research and development 19.4  2.0 State taxes, net   of federal benefit 0.3 1.2 1.1 Adjustments   primarily related to resolution of prior years accrual requirements (5.8 ) (1.8 ) (3.6 ) Domestic dividend   exclusion (5.9 ) (2.7 ) (2.6 ) All other, net  (3.6 ) (1.1 ) Effective tax rate on   earnings from continuing operations 24.6 % 27.0 % 23.0 % As of December31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, total deferred tax assets were $3,172,933, $2,040,906 and $2,171,782, respectively, and total deferred tax liabilities were $1,136,964, $1,355,181 and $1,349,972, respectively. Valuation allowances for deferred tax assets were not significant. The tax effect of the differences that give rise to deferred tax assets and liabilities were as follows: 2006 2005 2004 Compensation and   employee benefits $ 921,313 $ 37,578 $ 247,885 Trade receivable   reserves 236,218 227,251 223,507 Inventory   reserves 163,004 161,934 129,052 Deferred   intercompany profit 390,144 319,402 379,560 State income   taxes 51,494 49,153 (7,336 ) Depreciation (134,649 ) (157,272 ) (193,224 ) Acquired in-process   research and development and other accruals and reserves not currently   deductible 1,268,445 1,132,954 1,111,611 Other, primarily   the excess of book basis over tax basis of intangible assets (872,334 ) (1,095,182 ) (1,079,388 ) Total $ 2,023,635 $ 675,818 $ 811,667 Among the provisions of the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 was a provision that allows for the exclusion from income of a portion of the remittances of earnings of foreign subsidiaries to U.S. shareholders through December31, 2005. In 2005, Abbott remitted in accordance with the provisions of the Act approximately $4,300,000 of foreign earnings previously reinvested indefinitely. The additional income tax expense recorded for the remittance was approximately $245,000.
Note6 Segment and Geographic Area Information (dollars in millions) Revenue Segments Abbotts principal business is the discovery, development, manufacture and sale of a broad line of health care products. Abbotts products are generally sold directly to retailers, wholesalers, hospitals, health care facilities, laboratories, physicians offices and government agencies throughout the world. Effective with the acquisition of Guidants vascular intervention and endovascular solutions businesses on April21, 2006, Abbotts base vascular business and Guidants vascular intervention 62 Note 6  Segment and Geographic Area Information (dollars in millions) (Continued) and endovascular solutions businesses are reported as the Vascular Products segment. Effective January1, 2006, Abbotts segments were reorganized to reflect the shift of nutritional products from Abbotts International division to a newly formed division, Abbott Nutrition International. For segment reporting purposes, Abbotts Ross Products division and the Abbott Nutrition International division are aggregated and reported as the Nutritional Products segment and the U.S. and international pharmaceutical products divisions are aggregated and reported as the Pharmaceutical Products segment. The segment information below has been adjusted to reflect the acquisition and reorganizations. Abbotts reportable segments are as follows: Pharmaceutical Products Worldwide sales of a broad line of pharmaceuticals. For segment reporting purposes, two pharmaceutical divisions are aggregated and reported as the Pharmaceutical Products segment.
Diagnostic Products Worldwide sales of diagnostic systems and tests for blood banks, hospitals, consumers, commercial laboratories and alternate-care testing sites. For segment reporting purposes, four diagnostic divisions are aggregated and reported as the Diagnostic Products segment.
Nutritional Products  Worldwide sales of a broad line of adult and pediatric nutritional products. For segment reporting purposes, two nutritional products divisions are aggregated and reported as the Nutritional Products segment.
Vascular Products  Worldwide sales of coronary, endovascular and vessel closure products.
Abbotts underlying accounting records are maintained on a legal entity basis for government and public reporting requirements. Segment disclosures are on a performance basis consistent with internal management reporting. Intersegment transfers of inventory are recorded at standard cost and are not a measure of segment operating earnings. The cost of some corporate functions and the cost of certain employee benefits are charged to segments at predetermined rates that approximate cost. Remaining costs, if any, are not allocated to segments .
For acquisitions prior to 2006, substantially all intangible assets and related amortization are not allocated to segments. The following segment information has been prepared in accordance with the internal accounting policies of Abbott, as described above, and are not presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles applied to the consolidated financial statements.
NetSalesto Operating Depreciation Additionsto ExternalCustomers(a) Earnings(Loss)(a) andAmortization Long-termAssets TotalAssets 2006 2005 2004 2006 2005 2004 2006 2005 2004 2006 2005 2004 2006 2005 2004 Pharmaceuticals (b)(c) $ 12,395 $ 13,691 $ 11,913 $ 4,522 $ 4,294 $ 3,889 $ 150 $ 170 $ 219 $ 2,615 $ 389 $ 317 $ 9,281 $ 6,766 $ 6,517 Diagnostics 3,979 3,756 3,378 431 495 378 277 231 201 435 425 399 4,073 3,742 3,691 Nutritionals 4,313 3,937 3,589 1,206 1,036 1,047 112 99 91 184 81 138 2,467 2,219 1,936 Vascular (c) 1,082 253 221 (115 ) (136 ) (104 ) 157 20 20 3,637 88 16 4,400 290 229 Total Reportable Segments 21,769 21,637 19,101 $ 6,044 $ 5,689 $ 5,210 $ 696 $ 520 $ 531 $ 6,871 $ 983 $ 870 $ 20,221 $ 13,017 $ 12,373 Other 707 701 579 Net Sales $ 22,476 $ 22,338 $ 19,680 (a) Net sales and operating earnings for 2006 were unfavorably affected by the relatively stronger U.S. dollar and 2005 and 2004 were favorably affected by the relatively weaker U.S. dollar.
(b) The decrease in Pharmaceutical Product segment sales in 2006 is due primarily to the effects of the amendment to the Boehringer Ingelheim distribution agreement.
(c) Additions to long-term assets for the Pharmaceutical Products segment includes goodwill and intangible assets acquired in 2006 of $1,590 and $821, respectively, and the Vascular Products segment includes goodwill and intangible assets acquired in 2006 of $1,688 and $1,195, respectively.
63 Note 6  Segment and Geographic Area Information (dollars in millions) (Continued) 2006 2005 2004 Total Reportable   Segment Operating Earnings $ 6,044 $ 5,689 $ 5,210 Corporate   functions and benefit plans costs (d) 449 289 341 Non-reportable   segments (6 ) 30 119 Net interest   expense 292 154 149 Acquired in-process   and collaborations research and development 2,014 17 279 (Income) from TAP   Pharmaceutical Products Inc. joint venture (476 ) (441 ) (375 ) Share-based   compensation (e) 330 30 29 Other, net (f) 1,165 990 542 Consolidated Earnings   from Continuing Operations Before Taxes $ 2,276 $ 4,620 $ 4,126 (d) Corporate functions and benefit plans costs for 2006, includes a philanthropic contribution of $70 to the Abbott Fund.
(e) Approximately 40 to 45 percent of the annual cost of share-based awards will typically be recognized in the first quarter due to the timing of the granting of share-based awards.
(f) Other, net for 2006 includes $281 for restructuring plans as discussed in Note 14; $220 for acquisition integration and related costs primarily associated with the acquisition of Guidants vascular intervention and endovascular solutions businesses and income of $91 from fair value adjustments to certain derivative financial instruments related to the investment in Boston Scientific common stock and note receivable. Other, net for 2005 includes $266 for restructuring and impairment charges as discussed in Note 14.
2006 2005 2004 Total Reportable Segment   Assets $ 20,221 $ 13,017 $ 12,373 Cash and investments 2,603 3,090 2,205 Current deferred income   taxes 1,717 1,249 1,032 Non-reportable   segments 1,147 1,031 1,434 Assets held for sale to   Hospira  163 317 All other, net,   primarily goodwill and intangible assets not allocated to reportable segments 10,490 10,591 11,406 Total Assets $ 36,178 $ 29,141 $ 28,767 NetSalestoExternal Customers(g) Long-TermAssets 2006 2005 2004 2006 2005 2004 United States $ 11,995 $ 12,707 $ 11,242 $ 13,536 $ 7,717 $ 7,293 Japan 1,054 1,027 987 974 935 1,044 Germany 885 992 811 6,154 5,467 6,176 The Netherlands 1,061 899 705 185 156 146 Italy 848 806 745 256 211 234 Canada 762 680 595 74 68 68 France 696 657 587 131 92 94 Spain 583 542 513 283 232 275 United Kingdom 517 504 496 1,446 1,281 1,415 All Other Countries 4,075 3,524 2,999 1,857 1,596 1,288 Consolidated $ 22,476 $ 22,338 $ 19,680 $ 24,896 $ 17,755 $ 18,033 (g) Sales by country are based on the country that sold the product.
64 Note7 Litigation and Environmental Matters Abbott has been identified as a potentially responsible party for investigation and cleanup costs at a number of locations in the United States and Puerto Rico under federal and state remediation laws and is investigating potential contamination at a number of company-owned locations. Abbott has recorded an estimated cleanup cost for each site for which management believes Abbott has a probable loss exposure. No individual site cleanup exposure is expected to exceed $3million, and the aggregate cleanup exposure is not expected to exceed $15million.
There are two patent disputes with third parties who claim Abbotts products infringe their patents. In the first dispute, Abbott recorded the findings of a binding arbitration and paid the amount in January2007. In the second dispute, which Abbott assumed as part of the Guidant acquisition, reserves equal to the expected resolution have been recorded.
There are several civil actions pending brought by individuals or entities that allege generally that Abbott and numerous pharmaceutical companies reported false or misleading pricing information relating to the average wholesale price of certain pharmaceutical products in connection with federal, state and private reimbursement. Civil actions have also been brought against Abbott, and in some cases other members of the pharmaceutical industry, by state attorneys general seeking to recover alleged damages on behalf of state Medicaid programs. In May2006, Abbott was notified that the U.S. Department of Justice intervened in a civil whistle-blower lawsuit alleging that Abbott inflated prices for Medicaid and Medicare reimbursable drugs. The outcome of these investigations and litigation could include the imposition of fines or penalties. Abbott is unable to estimate the amount of possible loss, and no loss reserves have been recorded for these exposures. Many of the products involved in these cases are Hospira products. Hospira, Abbotts former hospital products business, was spun off to Abbotts shareholders in 2004. Abbott retained liability for losses that result from these cases and investigations to the extent any such losses both relate to the sale of Hospiras products prior to the spin-off of Hospira and relate to allegations that were made in such pending and future cases and investigations that were the same as allegations existing at the date of the spin-off.
Within the next year, legal proceedings may occur that may result in a change in the estimated reserves recorded by Abbott. For its legal proceedings and environmental exposures, excluding the cases and investigations discussed in the third paragraph of this footnote, and excluding the binding arbitration award discussed in the second paragraph, Abbott estimates the range of possible loss to be from approximately $165 million to $295 million. The recorded reserve balance at December31, 2006 for these proceedings and exposures was approximately $200 million. These reserves represent managements best estimate of probable loss, as defined by Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No.5, Accounting for Contingencies.
While it is not feasible to predict the outcome of all such proceedings and exposures with certainty, management believes that their ultimate disposition should not have a material adverse effect on Abbotts financial position, cash flows, or results of operations, except for the cases and investigations discussed in the third paragraph of this footnote, the resolution of which could be material to cash flows or results of operations for a quarter.
Note8 Spin-off of Hospira In 2004, Abbotts Board of Directors declared a special dividend distribution of all of the outstanding shares of common stock of Hospira,Inc., payable on April30, 2004. Hospira included the operations relating to the manufacture and sale of hospital products including specialty injectable pharmaceuticals, medication delivery systems and critical care devices and injectable pharmaceutical contract manufacturing. Hospira included Abbotts Hospital Products segment, after that segments reorganization on January1, 2004, and portions of the former International segment. The income and cash flows of 65 Note 8  Spin-off of Hospira (Continued) Hospira and the direct transaction costs of the spin-off have been presented as discontinued operations in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings and Statement of Cash Flows.
Abbott has retained liabilities for taxes on income prior to the spin-off, defined benefit, post-employment medical and dental plan obligations and assets, as of the spin-off, for most of Hospiras U.S. retired employees and U.S. retirement eligible employees and certain potential liabilities, if any, related to alleged improper pricing practices prior to the spin-off in connection with federal, state and private reimbursement for certain drugs.
Note9 Incentive Stock Program The 1996 Incentive Stock Program authorizes the granting of stock options, replacement stock options, stock appreciation rights, limited stock appreciation rights, restricted stock awards, restricted stock units, performance units and foreign qualified benefits. Stock options, replacement stock options and restricted stock awards and units comprise the majority of benefits that have been granted and are currently outstanding under this program and prior programs. In 2006, Abbott granted 25,657,134 stock options, 3,961,376 replacement stock options, 1,088,911 (net of forfeitures of 100,000) restricted stock awards and 949,397 (net of forfeitures of 27,600) restricted stock units under the programs. The purchase price of shares under option must be at least equal to the fair market value of the common stock on the date of grant, and the maximum term of an option is 10years. Options vest equally over three years except for replacement options, which vest in six months. Most options granted before January1, 2005 included a replacement feature. When an employee tenders mature shares to Abbott upon exercise of a stock option, a replacement stock option is granted equal to the amount of shares tendered. Replacement options are granted at the then current market price for a term that expires on the date of the underlying option grant. Upon a change in control of Abbott, all outstanding stock options become fully exercisable, and all terms and conditions of all restricted stock awards and units are deemed satisfied.
Restricted stock awards granted in 2006 have a 5 year term, with no more than one-third of the award vesting in any one year upon Abbott reaching a minimum return on equity target. Restricted stock units granted in 2006 vest over three years and upon vesting, the recipient receives one share of Abbott stock for each vested restricted stock unit. The aggregate fair market value of restricted stock awards and units is recognized as expense over the vesting period.
Restricted stock awards and settlement of vested restricted stock units are issued out of treasury shares. Abbott issued new shares for exercises of stock options. Abbott does not have a policy of purchasing its shares relating to its share-based programs. At January1, 2007, approximately 49million shares were reserved for future grants under the 1996 Program. Subsequent to year-end, the Board of Directors granted approximately 20 million stock options and restricted stock awards and units from this reserve.
66 Note 9  Incentive Stock Program (Continued) The number of restricted stock awards and units outstanding and the weighted-average grant-date fair value at December31, 2005 and December31, 2006 was 2,381,800 and $50.09 and 3,830,728 and $45.31, respectively. The number of restricted stock awards and units, and the weighted-average grant-date fair value, that were granted, vested and lapsed during 2006 were 2,165,908 and $43.99, 573,019 and $48.74 and 143,961 and $43.93, respectively. The fair value of restricted stock awards and units vested in 2006, 2005 and 2004 was $32,226,000, $12,949,000 and $16,469,000, respectively.
OptionsOutstanding ExercisableOptions Shares Weighted Average Exercise Price Weighted Average Remaining Life(Years) Shares Weighted Average Exercise Price Weighted Average Remaining Life(Years) December31,   2005 141,122,811 $ 42.69 6.3 98,328,158 $ 42.77 5.4 Granted 29,618,510 44.24 Exercised (18,537,136 ) 35.07 Lapsed (6,143,481 ) 46.71 December31, 2006 146,060,704 $ 43.80 6.2 100,543,786 $ 43.51 5.1 The aggregate intrinsic value of options outstanding and exercisable at December31, 2006 was $816 million and $622 million, respectively. The total intrinsic value of options exercised in 2006, 2005 and 2004 was $205 million, $189 million, and $133 million, respectively. The total unrecognized compensation cost related to all share-based compensation plans at December31, 2006 amounted to approximately $235 million which is expected to be recognized over the next three years.
On January1, 2006, Abbott adopted the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting StandardsNo.123 (revised 2004), Share-Based Payment, which requires that the fair value of share-based awards be recorded in the results of operations. Abbott used the modified prospective method of adoption. Under this method, prior years financial results do not include the impact of recording stock options using fair value. Under the revised standard, awards issued after 2005 and the remainder of any unrecognized cost for grants issued prior to 2006 are charged to expense.
Total non-cash compensation expense charged against income in 2006 for share-based plans totaled approximately $330 million and the tax benefit recognized was approximately $78 million.
Approximately 40 to 45 percent of the annual net cost of share-based awards will typically be recognized in the first quarter due to the timing of the granting of share-based awards.
Compensation cost capitalized as part of inventory is not significant.
Through December31, 2005, Abbott measured compensation cost using the intrinsic value-based method of accounting for stock options and replacement options granted to employees. Had compensation cost been determined using the fair value-based accounting method in 2005 and 2004, pro forma net income ( in billions ) and earnings per share (EPS) amounts would have been as follows: 2005 2004 Net income, as   reported $ 3.4 $ 3.2 Compensation cost under fair value-based   accounting method, net of taxes of $0.07 in 2005 and 2004 (0.2 ) (0.2 ) Net income, pro   forma $ 3.2 $ 3.0 Basic EPS, as reported $ 2.17 $ 2.07 Basic EPS, pro   forma 2.04 1.94 Diluted EPS, as   reported 2.16 2.06 Diluted EPS, pro forma 2.02 1.94 67 Note 9  Incentive Stock Program (Continued) The weighted average fair value of an option granted in 2006, 2005 and 2004 was $11.72, $12.17 and $11.79, respectively. The fair value of an option grant was estimated using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model with the following assumptions: 2006 2005 2004 Risk-free   interest rate 4.6 % 3.8 % 2.9 % Average life of   options (years) 6.1 5.4 5.4 Volatility 28.0 % 29.0 % 32.0 % Dividend yield 2.7 % 2.2 % 2.2 % The risk-free interest rate is based on the rates available at the time of the grant for zero-coupon U.S. government issues with a remaining term equal to the options expected life. The average life of an option granted in 2006 is based on both historical and projected exercise and lapsing data. Prior to 2006, the average life of an option granted was based on historical experience. Expected volatility for 2006 option grants is based on implied volatilities from traded options on Abbotts stock and historical volatility of Abbotts stock over the expected life of the option. Expected volatility for options granted prior to 2006 was based on historical volatility over a period prior to the option grant equal to the options expected life. Dividend yield is based on the options exercise price and annual dividend rate at the time of grant.
Note 10  Debt and Lines of Credit (dollars in thousands) The following is a summary of long-term debt at December31: 2006 2005 2004 5.625%   debentures, due 2006 $  $  $ 1,600,000 6.4% debentures,   due 2006   250,000 0.77% Yen notes,   due 2007  83,654 97,343 Notes, variable   interest above LIBOR  770,000  Euro notes,   variable interest above LIBOR, due 2008 264,180 638,766  British Pound   notes, variable interest above LIBOR  344,000  6.0% debentures,   due 2008 200,000 200,000 200,000 5.4% debentures,   due 2008 200,000 200,000 200,000 1.05% Yen notes,   due 2008 430,775 418,270 486,713 3.5% debentures,   due 2009 500,000 500,000 500,000 5.375%   debentures, due 2009 500,000   1.51% Yen notes,   due 2010 129,232 125,481 146,014 3.75% debentures,   due 2011 500,000 500,000 500,000 5.6% debentures,   due 2011 1,500,000   1.95% Yen notes,   due 2013 215,387 209,135 243,356 4.35% debentures,   due 2014 500,000 500,000 500,000 5.875%   debentures, due 2016 2,000,000   Other, including   fair market value adjustments relating to interest rate hedge contracts   designated as fair value hedges 70,090 82,198 64,508 Total, net of   current maturities 7,009,664 4,571,504 4,787,934 Current   maturities of long-term debt 95,276 1,849,563 156,034 Total carrying amount $ 7,104,940 $ 6,421,067 $ 4,943,968 68 Note 10  Debt and Lines of Credit (dollars in thousands)) (Continued) Principal payments required on long-term debt outstanding at December31, 2006, are $95,276 in 2007, $1,098,353 in 2008, $1,093,792 in 2009, $130,342 in 2010, $2,000,355 in 2011 and $2,771,336 thereafter.
At December31, 2006, Abbott had $7,000,000 of unused lines of credit, including a $4,000,000 short-term facility, which supports commercial paper borrowing arrangements. The lines of credit, other than the short-term facility, expire in 2010. Related compensating balances, which are subject to withdrawal by Abbott at its option, and commitment fees are not material. Abbotts weighted average interest rate on short-term borrowings was 5.0% at December31, 2006, 1.3% at December31, 2005 and 2.2% at December31, 2004.
Note11 Business Combinations, Technology Acquisitions and Related Transactions In December2006, Abbott acquired Kos Pharmaceuticals Inc. for cash of approximately $3.8 billion, net of cash held by Kos Pharmaceuticals, to expand Abbotts presence in the lipid management market and to provide several on-market and late-stage pipeline products. Kos Pharmaceuticals Inc. is a specialty pharmaceutical company that develops and markets proprietary medications for the treatment of chronic cardiovascular, metabolic and respiratory diseases. This business was acquired on December13, 2006 and the financial results of the acquired operations are included in these financial statements beginning on that date. The acquisition was financed primarily with short-term debt. The preliminary allocation of the acquisition cost is shown in the table below (in millions of dollars) .
Goodwill,   primarily non-deductible $ 1,824 Acquired   in-process research and development 1,262 Acquired   intangible assets, primarily product rights for marketed products 821 Acquired net   tangible assets 97 Deferred income   taxes recorded at acquisition (234 ) Total preliminary   allocation of acquisition cost $ 3,770 Acquired intangible assets will be amortized over 1 to 15 years. Non-deductible acquired in-process research and development was charged to income in 2006. The net tangible assets acquired consist primarily of trade accounts receivable, inventories and property and equipment, net of assumed liabilities, primarily accrued salaries and wages and other liabilities.
69 Note 11  Business Combinations, Technology Acquisitions and Related Transactions (Continued) In order to expand Abbotts presence in the growing vascular market, Abbott acquired Guidants vascular intervention and endovascular solutions businesses for approximately $4.1 billion, in cash, in connection with Boston Scientifics acquisition of Guidant. These businesses were acquired on April21, 2006 and the financial results of the acquired operations are included in these financial statements beginning on that date. In addition, Abbott will also pay to Boston Scientific $250 million each upon government approvals to market the XIENCE V drug-eluting stent in the U.S. and in Japan. Each $250 million payment will result in the recording of additional goodwill. The preliminary allocation of the acquisition cost is shown in the table below (in millions of dollars) . The valuation of intellectual property, including intangible assets and acquired in-process research and development, is substantially complete, but the valuations of the other assets and liabilities are preliminary. The allocation will be finalized when certain information regarding the other assets and liabilities is known.
Goodwill,   primarily deductible $ 1,688 Acquired   intangible assets, primarily product rights for marketed products 1,195 Acquired   in-process research and development 665 Acquired net   tangible assets 580 Total preliminary   allocation of acquisition cost $ 4,128 Acquired intangible assets will be amortized over 3 to 15 years (average of approximately 10 years). Tax deductible acquired in-process research and development was charged to income in 2006. The net tangible assets acquired consist primarily of property and equipment of approximately $530 million, trade accounts receivable of approximately $250 million and inventories of approximately $120 million, net of assumed liabilities, primarily trade accounts payable, litigation reserves and other liabilities.
In order to facilitate Boston Scientifics acquisition of Guidant, Abbott also acquired 64.6 million shares of Boston Scientific common stock directly from Boston Scientific and loaned $900 million to a wholly-owned subsidiary of Boston Scientific. Abbott is required to dispose of the shares by October2008. Sales of the shares are limited to approximately 5.4 million shares per month until October2007. The amount recorded upon the acquisition of the shares includes a discount to market, based on an appraisal, to reflect the value of the restrictions on sale. On the date of acquisition, half of the shares were recorded as available for sale in accordance with SFAS No.115 and the remainder under the cost method in accordance with APB No.18. As of December31, 2006, all of the shares are recorded as available for sale in accordance with SFAS No.115. The loan, which is due in April2011, is guaranteed by Boston Scientific and bears a favorable effective interest rate of 4 percent, which is reflected in the valuation of the note receivable. In connection with the acquisition of the shares, Boston Scientific is entitled to certain after-tax gains upon Abbotts sale of the shares. Abbott would retain any gains on the sale of the Boston Scientific shares up to a sales price of $23.83; Boston Scientific would receive any after-tax gains on the sale of the shares for the portion of the sales price in excess of $23.83 but lower than $26.00; and Boston Scientific would receive one-half of any after-tax gain for the portion of the sales price in excess of $25.99. Based on an appraisal, Abbott recorded approximately $114 million for this gain-sharing derivative financial instrument liability. In addition, Boston Scientific agreed to reimburse Abbott for certain borrowing costs on debt incurred to acquire the Boston Scientific shares. After Abbott incurs the first $10 million of interest cost on debt incurred to acquire the shares, Boston Scientific will reimburse Abbott for the next $60 million of interest cost. Reimbursement for the incremental interest cost will be in the form of additional common stock of Boston Scientific, payable 18 months after the acquisition. Abbott recorded approximately $55 million for this interest derivative financial instrument asset. The effect of recording the shares, the loan to Boston Scientific and the derivative financial instruments at fair value on the date of acquisition resulted in the recording of additional goodwill of approximately $204 million. The financial 70 Note 11  Business Combinations, Technology Acquisitions and Related Transactions (Continued) assets and liability acquired from Boston Scientific were valued and recorded at acquisition as follows (in millions of dollars) : Boston Scientific   common stock $ 1,326 Note receivable 829 Derivative   financial instruments, net (59 ) Total $ 2,096 In 2005, Abbott acquired the remaining interest in a small medical products company that was previously accounted for under the equity method of accounting and a less than 50 percent equity interest in a small medical products company. The aggregate cash purchase price was approximately $25 million. Acquisition accounting resulted in the recording of non-tax deductible goodwill of approximately $69 million, intangible assets of approximately $22 million and a charge of approximately $17 million for acquired in-process research and development. In 2005, Abbott acquired additional rights related to HUMIRA for approximately $270 million, which are being amortized over 13 years.
In 2004, Abbott acquired TheraSense,Inc., a leader in the development, manufacturing and marketing of blood glucose self-monitoring systems, for approximately $1.2 billion in cash; i-STAT Corporation, a manufacturer of point-of-care diagnostic products for blood analysis, for approximately $394 million in cash; EAS, a nutritional company with a portfolio of nationally recognized brands, for approximately $320 million in cash; and Spine Next, a manufacturer of orthopedic spinal implant devices, for approximately $58 million in cash plus additional milestone payments of up to $23 million upon achievement of future targets. Abbott also acquired certain other product technologies for approximately $352 million. These acquisitions resulted in a charge of $271 million for acquired in-process research and development, intangible assets of approximately $1.3 billion, non-tax deductible goodwill of approximately $923 million and deferred income taxes of approximately $406 million. Acquired intangible assets, primarily trade names, are amortized over 5 to 20 years (average of approximately 14 years).
Had the above acquisitions taken place on January1 of the previous year, consolidated net sales and income would not have been significantly different from reported amounts.
Note12 Goodwill and Intangible Assets (dollars in millions) Abbott recorded goodwill of $3,721, $69 and $923 in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively, related to acquisitions, including acquired goodwill allocated to the Pharmaceutical Products segment of $1,590 and goodwill allocated to the Vascular Products segment of $1,688. Foreign currency translation and other adjustments increased (decreased) goodwill in 2006, 2005 and 2004 by $ 509, $(535) and $394, respectively. The amount of goodwill related to reportable segments at December31, 2006 was $5,223 for the Pharmaceutical Products segment, $1,440 for the Diagnostics Products segment, $353 for the Nutritional Products segment and $1,939 for the Vascular Products segment. In connection with the spin-off of Hospira in 2004, Abbott transferred $81 of goodwill to Hospira. There were no other reductions of goodwill relating to impairments or disposal of all or a portion of a business.
The gross amount of amortizable intangible assets, primarily product rights and technology, was $8,988, $6,776 and $6,622 as of December31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively, and accumulated amortization was $2,602, $2,053 and $1,468 as of December31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Intangible assets with indefinite lives are not significant. The estimated annual amortization expense for intangible assets is $748 in 2007, $708 in 2008, 2009, and 2010 and $690 in 2011. Intangible assets are amortized over 1 to 25years (average 11 years).
71 Note13 Equity Method Investments (dollars in millions) Abbotts 50 percent-owned joint venture, TAP Pharmaceutical ProductsInc. (TAP), is accounted for under the equity method of accounting. The investment in TAP was $162, $167 and $76 at December31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Dividends received from TAP were $487, $343 and $638 in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Abbott performs certain administrative and manufacturing services for TAP at negotiated rates that approximate fair market value. Summarized financial information for TAP is asfollows: YearEndedDecember31 2006 2005 2004 Net sales $ 3,362.7 $ 3,260.0 $ 3,361.6 Cost of sales 835.8 883.4 990.4 Income before   taxes 1,523.8 1,379.3 1,181.1 Net income 951.6 882.8 750.0 December31 2006 2005 2004 Current assets $ 1,181.0 $ 1,339.1 $ 951.7 Total assets 1,333.1 1,470.2 1,176.6 Current   liabilities 954.5 1,082.2 976.8 Total liabilities 1,008.8 1,136.2 1,025.2 Undistributed earnings of investments accounted for under the equity method amounted to approximately $140 as of December31, 2006.
Note14 Restructuring Plans (dollars in millions) In 2006 and 2005, Abbott management approved plans to realign its worldwide pharmaceutical manufacturing operations and selected domestic and international commercial and research and development operations in order to reduce costs. In 2006 and 2005, Abbott recorded pretax charges against earnings of approximately $210 and $256, respectively, reflecting the impairment of manufacturing facilities and other assets, employee severance and other related charges. Approximately $181 and $174, respectively, is classified as cost of products sold, $29 and $10, respectively, as research and development and $72, in 2005, as selling, general and administrative.
Fair value for the determination of the amount of asset impairments was determined primarily based on a discounted cash flow method.
An additional $70 and $14 were subsequently recorded in 2006 and 2005, respectively, relating to these restructurings, primarily for accelerated depreciation. As a result of product re-registration timelines required under manufacturing regulations in a number of countries, manufacturing related realignments are expected to continue into2007.
The following summarizes the activity for restructurings: Employee- Related andOther Asset Impairments Total 2005   restructuring charges $ 191.7 $ 63.8 $ 255.5 Payments and   impairments (36.9 ) (63.8 ) (100.7 ) Accrued balance   at December31, 2005 154.8  154.8 2006   restructuring charges 117.7 92.6 210.3 Payments,   impairments and other adjustments (79.2 ) (92.6 ) (171.8 ) Accrued balance at   December31, 2006 $ 193.3 $  $ 193.3 72 Note 14  Restructuring Plans (dollars in millions) (Continued) Abbott expects to incur up to an additional $128 in future periods for restructuring plans, primarily for accelerated depreciation.
Note15 Subsequent Event On January18, 2007, Abbott announced that it had agreed to sell its core laboratory diagnostics business, including Abbott Point of Care, to GE for $8.13 billion in cash. In the last decade, the laboratory diagnostics market has changed considerably. Innovation in this business will be increasingly driven by automation, system integration and a host of skills that Abbott believes GE can better offer. The sale is expected to close in the first half of 2007 and is subject to customary closing conditions, including regulatory approvals. Net sales for these businesses were approximately $2.7 billion in 2006. The carrying amount of the assets and liabilities included in the sale is estimated to be approximately $2.6 billion, comprised of trade receivables of approximately $750 million, inventories of approximately $650 million, other current assets of approximately $100 million, net property, plant and equipment of approximately $1.3 billion, intangible assets and goodwill of approximately $500 million, current liabilities of approximately $550 million and long-term liabilities of approximately $150 million. Abbott estimates tax expense of approximately $2.0 billion will be recorded on the gain.
73 Note16 Quarterly Results (Unaudited) (dollars in millions except per share data) 2006 2005 2004 First Quarter Net Sales $ 5,183.5 $ 5,382.7 $ 4,640.9 Gross Profit 3,013.8 2,860.1 2,567.4 Net Earnings 865.0 837.9 822.9 Basic Earnings   Per Common Share (a) .57 .54 .53 Diluted Earnings   Per Common Share (a) .56 .53 .52 Market Price Per   Share-High 45.58 48.16 47.25 Market Price Per   Share-Low 39.18 43.34 39.28 Second   Quarter Net Sales $ 5,501.1 $ 5,523.8 $ 4,703.0 Gross Profit 3,112.5 2,892.0 2,634.3 Net Earnings (b) 612.2 877.1 634.3 Basic Earnings   Per Common Share (a)(b) .40 .56 .41 Diluted Earnings   Per Common Share (a)(b) .40 .56 .40 Market Price Per   Share-High 43.61 49.98 44.67 Market Price Per   Share-Low 40.55 45.98 39.43 Third   Quarter Net Sales $ 5,573.8 $ 5,384.0 $ 4,681.7 Gross Profit 3,182.5 2,706.8 2,566.8 Net Earnings (c) 715.8 680.7 804.1 Basic Earnings   Per Common Share (a)(c) .47 .44 .52 Diluted Earnings   Per Common Share (a)(c) .46 .44 .51 Market Price Per   Share-High 49.87 50.00 43.20 Market Price Per   Share-Low 43.25 41.57 38.26 Fourth   Quarter Net Sales $ 6,218.0 $ 6,047.3 $ 5,654.4 Gross Profit 3,352.4 3,237.8 3,027.3 Net (Loss)   Earnings (d) (476.2 ) 976.4 974.6 Basic (Loss)   Earnings Per Common Share (a)(d) (.31 ) .63 .62 Diluted (Loss)   Earnings Per Common Share (a)(d) (.31 ) .63 .62 Market Price Per   Share-High 49.10 44.36 47.63 Market Price Per Share-Low 45.41 37.50 40.25 (a) The sum of the quarters basic and diluted earnings per share for 2006 and 2004 do not add to the full year earnings per share amounts due to rounding.
(b) Second quarter 2006 includes a pretax charge of $493 for acquired in-process and collaborations research and development.
(c) Third quarter 2006 includes a pretax charge of $214 for acquired in-process research and development and 2005 includes pretax restructuring charges of $201.
(d) Fourth quarter 2006 includes a pretax charge of $1,307 for acquired in-process and collaborations research and development.
74 Management Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting The management of Abbott Laboratories is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. Abbotts internal control system was designed to provide reasonable assurance to the companys management and board of directors regarding the preparation and fair presentation of published financial statements.
All internal control systems, no matter how well designed, have inherent limitations. Therefore, even those systems determined to be effective can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to financial statement preparation and presentation.
Abbotts management assessed the effectiveness of the companys internal control over financial reporting as of December31, 2006. In making this assessment, it used the criteria set forth in Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. As allowed by SEC guidance, management excluded from its assessment the 2006 acquisitions of the Guidant businesses and Kos Pharmaceuticals, which accounted for approximately 20 percent of consolidated total assets and approximately 3 percent of consolidated net sales. Based on our assessment, we believe that, as of December31, 2006, the companys internal control over financial reporting was effective based on those criteria.
Abbotts independent registered public accounting firm has issued an audit report on our assessment of the companys internal control over financial reporting. This report appears on page77.
Miles D. White CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER Thomas C. Freyman EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT, FINANCE AND CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER Greg W. Linder VICE PRESIDENT AND CONTROLLER February15, 2007 75 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of Abbott Laboratories: We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Abbott Laboratories and subsidiaries (the Company) as of December31, 2006, 2005, and 2004, and the related consolidated statements of earnings, shareholders investment, and cash flows for the years then ended. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Companys management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
In our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Abbott Laboratories and subsidiaries as of December31, 2006, 2005, and 2004 and the results of their operations and their cash flows for the years then ended, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
As discussed in Notes 1, 4 and 9 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company changed its method of accounting for pension and other post employment benefits and share-based payments to adopt Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No.158, Employers Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans , and SFAS No.123(R), Share-Based Payment .
We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the effectiveness of the Companys internal control over financial reporting as of December31, 2006, based on the criteria established in Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our report dated February15, 2007 expressed an unqualified opinion on managements assessment of the effectiveness of the Companys internal control over financial reporting and an unqualified opinion on the effectiveness of the Companys internal control over financial reporting.
Deloitte& Touche LLP Chicago, Illinois February15, 2007 76 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of Abbott Laboratories: We have audited managements assessment, included in the accompanying Management Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting dated February15, 2007 (Managements Report), that Abbott Laboratories and subsidiaries (the Company) maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of December31, 2006, based on criteria established in Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. As described in Managements Report, management excluded from its assessment the internal control over financial reporting for the 2006 acquisitions of the Guidant businesses (Guidant) and Kos Pharmaceuticals (Kos), which accounted for approximately 20 percent of consolidated total assets and approximately 3 percent of consolidated net sales. Accordingly, our audit did not include the internal control over financial reporting at Guidant or Kos. The Companys management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on managements assessment and an opinion on the effectiveness of the Companys internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.
We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, evaluating managements assessment, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinions.
A companys internal control over financial reporting is a process designed by, or under the supervision of, the companys principal executive and principal financial officers, or persons performing similar functions, and effected by the companys board of directors, management, and other personnel to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A companys internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1)pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2)provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3)provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the companys assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Because of the inherent limitations of internal control over financial reporting, including the possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Also, projections of any evaluation of the effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
In our opinion, managements assessment that the Company maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of December31, 2006, is fairly stated, in all material respects, based on the criteria established in Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Also in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December31, 2006, based on the criteria 77 established in Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.
We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated financial statements of the Company as of and for the year ended December31, 2006 and our report dated February15, 2007 expressed an unqualified opinion on those financial statements and included an explanatory paragraph regarding the Companys adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No.158, Employers Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans , and SFAS No.123(R), Share-Based Payment, in 2006.
Deloitte& Touche LLP Chicago, Illinois February15, 2007 78 TAP Pharmaceutical ProductsInc.
Consolidated Statements of Income and Comprehensive Income (dollars in thousands) YearsEndedDecember31 2006 2005 2004 Net Sales $ 3,362,672 $ 3,259,850 $ 3,361,634 Cost of Sales 835,834 883,404 990,417 Gross Profit 2,526,838 2,376,446 2,371,217 Selling, General   and Administrative 769,036 783,041 1,027,203 Research and   Development 245,476 219,412 167,625 Income from   Operations 1,512,326 1,373,993 1,176,389 Interest Income 13,520 5,339 9,293 Other Expense,   net (2,033 ) (1 ) (4,630 ) Income Before   Taxes 1,523,813 1,379,331 1,181,052 Provision for   Income Taxes 572,192 496,559 431,083 Net Income 951,621 882,772 749,969 Other Comprehensive   Income: Net unrealized   gains (losses) on investment and forward contracts 13,145 (13,959 ) (3,066 ) Comprehensive Income $ 964,766 $ 868,813 $ 746,903 See notes to consolidated financial statements.
79 TAP Pharmaceutical ProductsInc.
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (dollars in thousands) YearsEndedDecember31 2006 2005 2004 Cash Flows From   Operating Activities: Net income $ 951,621 $ 882,772 $ 749,969 Adjustments to reconcile   net income to net cash flows from operating activities: Depreciation and   amortization 18,317 24,137 29,022 Deferred income   taxes (44,510 ) 65,349 (70,219 ) Changes in assets and   liabilities: Accounts receivable 21,069 (158,980 ) 75,444 Inventories 24,860 1,049 7,217 Income tax receivable (110,897 )   Prepaid expenses and other assets 2,728 9,138 (11,322 ) Trade accounts payable and accrued liabilities (80,092 ) (62,429 ) (99,930 ) Accrued rebates (181,835 ) 163,643 98,254 Accrued compensation and benefits 136,474 9,745 (10,305 ) Net Cash Flows   From Operating Activities 737,735 934,424 768,130 Cash Flows From (Used   in) Investing Activities: Proceeds from   maturities of investments 148,755 153,350 316,750 Purchases of   investments  (281,150 ) (99,600 ) Capital   expenditures (5,366 ) (6,759 ) (6,785 ) Net Cash Flows   From (Used in) Investing Activities 143,389 (134,559 ) 210,365 Cash Flows (Used in)   Financing Activities: Dividends paid (974,400 ) (686,155 ) (1,276,448 ) Payments under   capital lease obligations (1,085 ) (15,344 ) (8,518 ) Cash Flows (Used   in) Financing Activities (975,485 ) (701,499 ) (1,284,966 ) Net (Decrease)   Increase in Cash and Cash Equivalents (94,361 ) 98,366 (306,471 ) Cash and Cash   Equivalents Beginning of Year 160,521 62,155 368,626 Cash and Cash   Equivalents End of Year $ 66,160 $ 160,521 $ 62,155 Supplemental Disclosure   of Cash Flow Information: Cash paid during the   year for income taxes $ 754,252 $ 409,336 $ 579,140 See notes to consolidated financial statements.
80 TAP Pharmaceutical ProductsInc.
Consolidated Balance Sheets (in thousands, except share amount) December31 2006 2005 Assets Current Assets: Cash and cash   equivalents $ 66,160 $ 160,521 Short-term   investments, primarily debt obligations issued by governmental agencies 80,645 229,966 Accounts   receivable, net of allowances: 2006 $54,141; 2005 $57,447 635,325 664,098 Receivable from   Abbott 7,704  Inventories 135,380 160,240 Income tax   receivable 110,897  Deferred income   taxes 82,804 72,029 Prepaid expenses   and other assets 62,128 52,248 Total Current   Assets 1,181,043 1,339,102 Property and   Equipment, net 98,662 110,528 Other Assets, net 2,074 2,922 Deferred Income   Taxes 51,365 17,630 $ 1,333,144 $ 1,470,182 Liabilities and Shareholders   Equity Current Liabilities: Trade accounts   payable $ 87,444 $ 71,760 Accrued   compensation and benefits 148,336 53,262 Accrued   Liabilities 99,764 134,449 Payable to Takeda 79,213 47,743 Payable to Abbott  36,714 Accrued rebates 492,849 674,684 Income taxes   payable 46,850 63,577 Total Current   Liabilities 954,456 1,082,189 Other   Liabilities, including postretirement medical and dental benefits 54,300 53,971 Total Liabilities 1,008,756 1,136,160 Commitments and   Contingencies Shareholders   Equity: Common stock, no   par value authorized, issued and outstanding, 200shares 39,500 39,500 Additional paid-in   capital 6,449 6,449 Accumulated other   comprehensive loss (1,559 ) (14,704 ) Retained earnings 279,998 302,777 Total   Shareholders Equity 324,388 334,022 $ 1,333,144 $ 1,470,182 See notes to consolidated financial statements.
81 TAP Pharmaceutical ProductsInc.
Consolidated Statements of Shareholders Equity Years Ended December31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 (dollars in thousands, except share amounts) Common Stock Additional Paid-In Accumulated Other Comprehensive Retained Total Shareholders Shares Amount Capital (Loss)Income Earnings Equity Balance,   January1, 2004 200 $ 39,500 $ 6,449 $ 2,321 $ 632,639 $ 680,909 Net income     749,969 749,969 Net unrealized   gain (loss) on investment and forward contracts,net of taxes of $1,150    (3,066 )  (3,066 ) Dividends     (1,276,448 ) (1,276,448 ) Balance,   December31, 2004 200 39,500 6,449 (745 ) 106,160 151,364 Net income     882,772 882,772 Net unrealized   gain (loss) on investment and forward contracts,net of taxes of $8,368    (13,959 )  (13,959 ) Dividends     (686,155 ) (686,155 ) Balance,   December31, 2005 200 39,500 6,449 (14,704 ) 302,777 334,022 Net income     951,621 951,621 Net unrealized   gain (loss) on investment and forward contracts,net of taxes of   $(7,924)    13,145  13,145 Dividends     (974,400 ) (974,400 ) Balance,   December31, 2006 200 $ 39,500 $ 6,449 $ (1,559 ) $ 279,998 $ 324,388 See notes to consolidated financial statements.
82 TAP Pharmaceutical ProductsInc.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Years Ended December31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 (dollars in thousands) Note1.Description of the Business TAP Pharmaceutical ProductsInc. and subsidiaries (TAP) is a Delaware corporation owned equally by Abbott Laboratories (Abbott), an Illinois corporation, and Takeda America Holdings,Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Takeda Pharmaceutical Company,Ltd., a Japanese corporation (collectively Takeda). TAP is headquartered in Lake Forest, Illinois and has approximately 3,000 employees. Under an agreement between Abbott and Takeda, TAP develops, markets and sells human pharmaceutical products in the United States, Puerto Rico, and Canada. TAP operates as one business segment with sales primarily in the United States.
TAPs primary products are Prevacid and Lupron . The principal indications for Prevacid (lansoprazole), a proton pump inhibitor, are for short-term treatment of duodenal ulcers, gastric ulcers and erosive esophagitis.
Lupron (leuprolide acetate), a luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone (LH-RH) analog, and Lupron Depot , a sustained release form of Lupron , are used principally for the palliative treatment of advanced prostate cancer, endometriosis and central precocious puberty, and for the pre-operative treatment of patients with anemia caused by uterine fibroids.
The patents related to lansoprazole and Lupron Depot are material to the operation of TAPs business. The original United States compound patent covering lansoprazole is licensed by TAP from Takeda. The original United States patents covering the Lupron Depot formulations are licensed by TAP from Takeda.
TAPs products are generally sold directly to physicians, retailers, wholesalers, health care facilities, and government agencies. In most cases, they are distributed from Abbott-owned distribution centers. Primary marketing efforts are directed toward securing the prescription of TAPs brand of products by physicians. Managed care purchasers (for example, health maintenance organizations and pharmacy benefit managers) are increasingly important customers.
TAPs products are supplied by its owners, principally Takeda. A disruption in the supply of these products could adversely impact the operating results of TAP. Sales of TAPs primary products are as follows: 2006 2005 2004 Prevacid $ 2,599,886 $ 2,501,052 $ 2,592,116 Lupron 662,374 698,806 770,210 In 2006 and 2005, TAP recognized revenue for milestone payments related to the 2005 license of the Prevacid trademark, certain patents and technical information to a third party for the over-the-counter sale of Prevacid in the United States.
Financial instruments that potentially subject TAP to concentrations of credit risk consist primarily of accounts receivable. TAP sells primarily to wholesale distributors and a majority of TAPs accounts receivable are derived from sales to wholesale distributors. Three U.S. wholesale distributors accounted for more than 10% of TAPs gross sales as follows: 2006 2005 2004 Wholesale distributor A 28 % 26 % 20 % Wholesale distributor B 18 % 20 % 19 % Wholesale distributor C 28 % 31 % 19 % 83 Note 1. Description of the Business (Continued) TAP has no material exposures to off-balance sheet arrangements; nor special purpose entities; nor activities that include non-exchange-traded contracts accounted for at fair value, except for the equity swap agreements that hedge market price exposure for employee stock options as described in Note 6.
Note2.Summary of Significant Accounting Policies BASIS OF PRESENTATION The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of TAP and all of its subsidiaries. All intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated.
USE OF ESTIMATES The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires estimates and assumptions by management. Actual results could differ from those estimates. Significant estimates include amounts for income taxes, sales rebates, inventory reserves and accounts receivable allowances.
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS Cash equivalents include time deposits, certificates of deposit, commercial paper, money market funds and other short-term investments in governmental agency debt securities with original maturities of three months or less, or which are contractually convertible to cash in three months or less.
INVESTMENT SECURITIES Investments in marketable debt and equity securities are classified as available-for-sale and are recorded at fair value with any unrealized holding gains or losses, net of tax, included in Accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income.
INVENTORIES Inventories are stated at the lower of cost (first-in, first-out basis) or market. Cost includes material and packaging costs. Inventories consist of the following as of December31: 2006 2005 Finished goods $ 65,909 $ 104,931 Work-in-process 69,471 55,309 Total inventories $ 135,380 $ 160,240 PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT Property and equipment are recorded at cost less accumulated depreciation. Depreciation is provided using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets. The estimated useful lives of property and equipment are as follows: Building 50years Automobiles 50   months Furniture and   fixtures 10-20years Computer hardware and   software 3-10years Long-lived assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable based on projected undiscounted cash flows associated with the affected assets. If the fair value is less than the carrying value of the asset, a loss is recognized for the difference. Fair value is determined based on market quotes, if available, or is based on valuation techniques.
REVENUE RECOGNITION Revenue from product sales is recognized upon passage of title and risk of loss to customers (when product is delivered to a common carrier). Revenue from license of product rights is recorded over the periods earned. Provisions for estimated rebates and sales incentives to customers, doubtful accounts, cash discounts, product returns and customer chargebacks are provided for in the period of the related sale. Rebates and sales incentives are recorded as accrued rebates in the 84 Note 2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued) balance sheets. Reserves for doubtful accounts, cash discounts, product returns and customer chargebacks are recorded as reductions to accounts receivable. Historical data is readily available and reliable, and is used for estimating the amount of the reduction in gross sales.
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT Internal research and development costs are expensed as incurred. Clinical trial costs incurred by third parties are expensed as the contracted work is performed. Where milestone payments are due to third parties under research and development arrangements, the milestone payment obligations are expensed when the milestone results are achieved.
ADVERTISING AND PROMOTION EXPENSE All advertising and promotion costs are expensed as Selling, general and administrative expenses when incurred. Total advertising and promotion expense incurred was $186,052, $203,375 and $227,882 for 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.
INCOME TAXES Deferred income taxes are recognized for the tax consequences of temporary differences by applying statutory tax rates applicable to future years to differences between the financial statement carrying amount and the tax basis of assets and liabilities.
RECLASSIFICATIONS Certain reclassifications have been made to prior year financial statements to conform to the current-year presentation.
Note3. Property and Equipment and Lease Obligations Property and equipment consists of the following at December31: 2006 2005 Land and land   improvements $ 13,337 $ 13,337 Building 17,884 17,884 Furniture and   fixtures 40,061 40,150 Computer hardware   and software 44,437 43,360 Automobiles under   capital leases 41,560 49,237 Other 6,189 4,344 Property and equipment 163,468 168,312 Less accumulated   depreciation and amortization (64,806 ) (57,784 ) Property and equipment,   net $ 98,662 $ 110,528 TAP leases certain administrative and regional sales offices, equipment, and automobiles under non-cancelable leases which expire at various dates through 2011. Future minimum lease payments under non-cancelable operating and capital leases as of December31, 2006 consist of the following: 2007 $ 12,766 2008 10,521 2009 6,437 2010 4,217 Thereafter 3,947 Total $ 37,888 Note4. Financial Instruments and Derivatives TAP enters into foreign currency forward contracts to hedge purchases of inventories at fixed Yen-denominated prices. The forward contracts require TAP to purchase Yen in exchange for U.S. dollars at 85 Note 4. Financial Instruments and Derivatives (Continued) pre-determined exchange rates and are designated as cash flow hedges of the variability of cash flows due to changes in exchange rates. TAP does not trade financial instruments with the objective of earning financial gains on the exchange rate fluctuations alone, nor does it trade in currencies or commodities for which there are no underlying exposures.
Effectiveness of the forward contracts is based on changes in the forward rates. The effective portion of the changes in value of the forward contracts is recorded in Accumulated other comprehensive (loss), and is subsequently recognized in earnings in the same period the hedged forecasted transactions affect earnings. Any cash flow hedge ineffectiveness is reported in earnings in the current period.
TAP had outstanding foreign exchange forward contracts with notional values of $176,509 and $392,086 and fair values of $(2,049) and $(18,638) at December31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The fair value of these contracts is recorded as accrued liabilities at December31, 2006 and 2005. During 2006, 2005, and 2004 cash flow hedge ineffectiveness was not material.
The carrying value of cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments approximates fair value due to the short-term maturity of the investments.
Note5. Employee Benefit Plans TAP employees participate in various Abbott employee benefit plans, including the Abbott Laboratories Annuity Retirement Plan, the Abbott Laboratories Stock Retirement Plan, and the Abbott Laboratories Incentive Stock Program (see Note6 for further details). TAP is billed for its share of the costs of these plans. TAPs share of the employer contribution to the Abbott Laboratories Annuity Retirement Plan is generally allocated based on TAPs proportionate share of the total compensation expense of all participants in the plan. TAP made contributions to the plan of $16,000 in 2006 and 2005, and $43,000 in 2004. TAPs contribution to the Abbott Laboratories Stock Retirement Plan is based on participating employee contributions. TAPs contributions for 2006, 2005, and 2004 were $12,989, $12,619 and $11,563, respectively.
TAP provides health and welfare benefits to its employees through the TAP Pharmaceutical ProductsInc. Healthcare Plan. Contributions to the Plan are made in accordance with the TAPs funding policy. TAP provides certain medical and life insurance benefits to qualifying retirees through the TAP Pharmaceutical ProductsInc. Retiree Medical Plan. The following provides a reconciliation of the post-employment benefit obligations and funded status of the Plan: 2006 2005 Change in benefit   obligations: Projected benefit   obligations, January1 $ 27,678 $ 23,067 Service cost 3,222 2,592 Interest cost 1,658 1,242 Actuarial loss 2,899 1,102 Benefits paid (479 ) (325 ) Projected benefit obligations, December31 $ 34,978 $ 27,678 Reconciliation of   funded status: Unfunded status $ (34,978 ) $ (27,678 ) Unrecognized net   actuarial loss 14,747 12,390 Unrecognized prior   service credits (7,143 ) (7,544 ) Accrued post-employment   benefit liability, December31 $ (27,374 ) $ (22,832 ) 86 Note5. Employee Benefit Plans (Continued) The components of net cost are as follows: 2006 2005 2004 Service cost $ 3,222 $ 2,592 $ 2,467 Interest cost 1,658 1,242 1,119 Net amortization 141 (19 ) 19 Net cost $ 5,021 $ 3,815 $ 3,605 The discount rates used to determine benefit obligations for medical and dental plans as of December31, the measurement date for the plan, were 5.90 percent in 2006 and 5.75 percent in 2005. The discount rates used to determine net cost for medical and dental plans were 5.75 percent in 2006, 5.8 percent in 2005 and 6.0 percent in 2004.
The assumed health care cost trend rates for medical and dental plans at December31 were asfollows: 2006 2005 2004 Health care cost   trend rate assumed for the next year 7% 7% 7% Rate that the   cost trend rate gradually declines to 5% 5% 5% Year that rate reaches   the assumed ultimate rate 2012 2012 2007 A one-percentage point increase (decrease) in the assumed health care trend rate would increase (decrease) the accumulated post-employment benefit obligations as of December31, 2006 by approximately $9,206 and $(6,902), respectively, and the total of the service and interest cost components of net post-employment benefit cost for the year then ended by approximately $1,496 and $(1,097), respectively.
Total benefit payments expected to be paid to participants from company assets for post-employment medical and dental benefits are as follows: 2007 $ 433 2008 515 2009 610 2010 713 2011 850 2012 to 2016 6,377 In September2006, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No.158, Employers Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans. The new statement requires immediate recognition of the deferrals on the balance sheet with a corresponding charge to Accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income. TAP is required to adopt the accounting provisions of this statement on December31, 2007.
Note6. Incentive Stock Program Certain employees of TAP are granted options to purchase Abbott common stock under the 1996 Abbott Incentive Stock Program and prior plans. Stock options and replacement stock options granted to TAP employees are currently outstanding under this and prior plans. The purchase price of shares under option must be at least equal to the fair market value of the Abbott common stock on the date of grant, and the maximum term of an option is 10years. Options granted vest equally over three years except for 87 Note 6. Incentive Stock Program (Continued) replacement options, which generally vest in six months and have a life equal to the remaining life of the replaced option. In addition, beginning in 2006, certain employees of TAP are granted restricted stock units on Abbott stock. Restricted stock units granted in 2006 vest over three years and upon vesting, the recipient receives one share of Abbott stock for each vested restricted stock unit. Upon a change in control of Abbott, all outstanding stock options and restricted stock units become fully exercisable.
All option exercises and restricted stock vesting are transacted with Abbott. TAP is liable for the excess of the fair market value of the option shares granted to TAP employees while employed at TAP over the option price at the time of exercise and the fair market value of the Abbott stock at the time of vesting of restricted stock units and reimburses Abbott annually for the cost of options exercised and the restricted stock units vested during the year.
TAP accounted for stock options issued under the Abbott Incentive Stock Program in accordance with EITF No.02-08 in 2005 and 2004, respectively. On January1, 2006, TAP adopted the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No.123 (revised 2004), Share-Based Payment, using the modified prospective method. The adoption of the provisions of this statement had no effect on TAPs financial statements. TAPs derivative liability for options granted was $66,231 and $37,982 at December31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Changes in the fair value of these options are recorded as Selling, general and administrative expense. The weighted average fair value of an option granted in 2006, 2005 and 2004 was $9.67, $12.93, and $9.55, respectively. The fair value of an option granted was estimated using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model with the following assumptions: 2006 2005 2004 Risk-free   interest rate 4.7% 4.1% 2.6% Average life of   options (years) 5.3 5.3 5.3 Volatility 26.7% 31.2% 32.2% Dividend yield 2.8% 2.4% 2.6% The fair value of an option as of December31 was estimated using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model with the following assumptions: 2006 2005 2004 Risk-free   interest rate 4.5% 4.2% 3.5% Average life of options   (years) 4.5 4.5 4.5 Volatility 25.0% 27.0% 30.5% Dividend yield 2.4% 2.8% 2.2% The risk-free interest rate is based on the rates available at the time of the grant for U.S. government treasury STRIPS with a remaining term equal to the options expected life. The average life of an option granted in 2006 is based on both historical and projected exercise and lapsing data. Prior to 2006, the average life of an option granted was based on historical experience. Expected volatility is based on historical volatility over a period prior to the option grant equal to the options expected life. Dividend yield is based on the options exercise price and annual dividend rate at the time of grant.
88 Note 6. Incentive Stock Program (Continued) The number of restricted stock units outstanding and the weighted-average grant-date fair value at December31, 2006 was 25,400 and $44.33. The number of restricted stock units and the weighted-average grant-date fair value that were granted and lapsed during 2006 were 36,700 and $44.28, respectively, and 11,300 and $44.16, respectively. The following summarizes stock option activity for 2006: OptionsOutstanding ExercisableOptions Shares Weighted Average Exercise Price Weighted Average Remaining Life(Years) Shares Weighted Average Exercise Price Weighted Average Remaining Life(Years) December31,   2005 8,211,561 $ 43.23 6.6 5,495,322 $ 43.62 5.7 Granted 1,866,390 44.29 Exercised (926,826 ) 36.80 Lapsed (562,670 ) 46.81 December31, 2006 8,588,455 $ 43.92 6.3 5,824,282 $ 43.67 5.3 The aggregate intrinsic value of options outstanding and exercisable at December31, 2006 was $41,100 and $29,400, respectively. The total intrinsic value of options exercised was $8,500 in 2006 and 2005, and $5,000 in 2004. The total unrecognized compensation cost related to all share-based compensation plans at December31, 2006 amounted to approximately $9,200 which is expected to be recognized over the next three years.
As of December31, 2006 and 2005, TAP has recorded a liability for exercised options of $7,567 and $7,119, respectively, as a payable to Abbott. TAP also has recorded a liability for options issued before the adoption of EITF No.02-08 for the difference between the market value and strike price of vested yet unexercised options of $15,761 and $5,009 as of December31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Total expense (income) related to the Abbott Incentive Stock Program of $49,489, $(12,553) and $26,493 was recorded as Selling, general and administrative expense in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The amount of income taxes benefit realized from stock options exercised in 2006, 2005 and 2004 amounted to $2,236, $2,407 and $1,366, respectively.
Due to the impact of significant fluctuations in the market price of Abbott common stock on the amount of recorded compensation expense of options issued under the Abbott Incentive Stock Program, TAP entered into an ISDA Master Agreement (Master Agreement), dated September29, 2000, which allows TAP to enter into equity swap transactions to hedge this market price exposure. Each equity swap transaction guarantees a return equal to the actual return on a specified number of shares of Abbott common stock and, as such, effectively acts as a hedge of the Abbott Incentive Stock Program. From time to time, TAP enters into equity swap transactions under the Master Agreement. Each transaction has a term of one to three years and requires quarterly cash settlement resulting in all gains and losses being realized and recorded in the statements of income. Each transaction requires on-going quarterly interest payments based on the equity notional amount, or the fair value of Abbott common stock shares swapped under each transaction at the date of the swap at a rate of LIBOR plus 114 basis points or 100 basis points for transactions prior to October2003. Each equity swap transaction is recorded at fair value. The fair value of equity swaps was $811 and $(212)as of December31, 2006 and 2005, respectively, and is recorded as Prepaid expenses and other assets in the balance sheets. For 2006, 2005 and 2004, TAP recorded as Selling, general and administrative expenses $(47,554), $27,945 and $(19,085), respectively, of (gain) loss related to the equity swap investments.
89 Note7. Income Taxes Loss contingency provisions are recorded for the estimated amount of audit settlements under the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No.5, Accounting for Contingencies.
TAPs U.S. income tax liabilities for years 1999 and forward are subject to final determination by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). The IRS has challenged the deductibility of an item in TAPs 2001 tax return. Management believes its deduction is proper and expects the ultimate resolution will not have a material impact on TAPs financial position, cash flows or results of operations.
Deferred income taxes reflect the tax consequences on future years of temporary differences between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their financial reporting amounts. The provision for income taxes includes the following components: 2006 2005 2004 Current: U.S. Federal $ 593,729 $ 407,274 $ 481,880 State 30,906 15,560 18,879 Total current 624,635 422,834 500,759 Deferred: U.S. Federal (49,375 ) 66,444 (62,788 ) State (3,068 ) 7,281 (6,888 ) Total deferred (52,443 ) 73,725 (69,676 ) Total $ 572,192 $ 496,559 $ 431,083 Differences between the effective tax rate and the U.S. statutory tax rate were as follows: 2006 2005 2004 Statutory tax   rate 35.0% 35.0% 35.0% State income   taxes, net of federal income tax benefit 1.2 1.0 0.8 Other 1.4  0.7 Effective tax rate 37.6% 36.0% 36.5% The temporary differences that give rise to deferred tax assets and liabilities are as follows: 2006 2005 Accounts   receivable allowances and inventory reserves $ 17,095 $ 18,499 Accrued rebates 26,919 (4,070 ) Accrued   compensation and benefits 30,543 15,543 Non-currently   deductible escrow payment  30,960 Other, primarily   accrued legal expenses, state and local taxes, and prepaid royalties not   currently deductible 59,612 28,727 Total 134,169 89,659 Less current   portion (82,804 ) (72,029 ) Long-term net   deferred tax assets $ 51,365 $ 17,630 In July2006, the FASB issued Interpretation No.48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes. This Interpretation requires that a recorded tax benefit must be more likely than not of being sustained upon examination by tax authorities based upon its technical merits. The amount of benefit recorded is the largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50 percent likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement.
90 Note 7. Income Taxes (Continued) Upon adoption, any adjustment will be recorded directly to beginning retained earnings. The Interpretation is effective for TAP beginning no later than January1, 2007. TAP has not yet adopted the provisions of this Interpretation. The adoption of this Interpretation is not expected to have a material effect on TAPs January1, 2007 balance sheet or the 2007 provision for income taxes.
Note8. Litigation and Related Matters TAP, along with its shareholders have been named as defendants in several lawsuits alleging violations of various state or federal laws in connection with TAPs marketing and pricing of Lupron . In 2004, TAP reached an agreement with plaintiffs to settle the allegations for $150,000 and dismiss TAP, Takeda and Abbott from the cases and recorded a charge of $125,000 in selling, general and administrative expense. Some plaintiffs opted out of the Lupron settlement to pursue their claims separately. In 2005, TAP recorded an additional charge of $12,300 and the settlement received court approval. The claims of the remaining plaintiffs are not material and are reserved for by TAP.
Within the next year, legal proceedings may occur that may result in a change in the estimated reserves recorded by TAP. While it is not feasible to predict the outcome of such pending claims, proceedings, and investigations with certainty, management is of the opinion that their ultimate disposition should not have a material adverse effect on TAPs financial position, cash flows, or results of operations.
Note9. Related-Party Transactions Various agreements exist among TAP, Abbott and Takeda. All amounts due from and payable to Abbott and Takeda have been respectively netted in the balance sheets in the captions Receivable from Abbott, Payable to Abbott, and Payable to Takeda.
TAP purchases all Lupron Depot and Prevacid unpackaged finished goods inventories from Takeda. Purchases are contracted at fixed Yen-denominated prices. The actual cost, in U.S. dollars, paid to Takeda for purchases of these inventories in 2006, 2005 and 2004, totaled $609,436, $753,096 and $714,712, respectively. TAP has royalty agreements with Takeda for sales of Lupron , Lupron Depot and Prevacid . For 2006, 2005 and 2004, TAP recorded royalty expense of $179,770, $173,878 and $179,256, respectively.
TAP pays Abbott for services related to packaging and warehousing, research and development, administrative functions, and, in 2004, a residual royalty under a co-promotion agreement. Amounts incurred for these services totaled $60,425, $59,969 and $142,676 for 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. In addition, Abbott purchased, for international markets, TAPs products for $84,515, $75,295 and $73,934 in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.
Note10. Subsequent Event On February16, 2007, TAP received a total of $148,000 from QLT USA,Inc. and Sanofi-Synthelabo Inc. to resolve litigation relating to alleged infringement of a Lupron Depot patent. TAP recorded the receipt of the settlement amount as income in the first quarter 2007.
91 REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of TAP Pharmaceutical Products Inc.: We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of TAP Pharmaceutical Products Inc. and subsidiaries (TAP or the Company) as of December 31, 2006 and 2005, and the related consolidated statements of income, stockholders equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2006. These financial statements are the responsibility of TAPs management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. The Company is not required to have, nor were we engaged to perform, an audit of its internal control over financial reporting. Our audits included consideration of internal control over financial reporting as a basis for designing audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of TAPs internal control over financial reporting. Accordingly, we express no such opinion. An audit also includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
In our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of TAP Pharmaceutical Products Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2006 and 2005, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December31, 2006, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
Deloitte & Touche LLP Chicago, Illinois February 1, 2007 February 16, 2007, as to Note10 92 ITEM9.
CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE None.
ITEM9A.
CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES Disclosure Controls and Procedures Evaluation of disclosure controls and procedures.
The Chief Executive Officer, Miles D. White, and Chief Financial Officer, Thomas C. Freyman, evaluated the effectiveness of Abbott Laboratories disclosure controls and procedures as of the end of the period covered by this report, and concluded that Abbott Laboratories disclosure controls and procedures were effective to ensure that information Abbott is required to disclose in the reports that it files or submits with the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is recorded, processed, summarized and reported, within the time periods specified in the Commissions rulesand forms, and to ensure that information required to be disclosed by Abbott in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to Abbotts management, including its principal executive officer and principal financial officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.
Internal Control Over Financial Reporting Managements annual report on internal control over financial reporting.
Managements report on Abbotts internal control over financial reporting is included on page75 hereof. The report of Abbotts independent registered public accounting firm related to managements assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting is included on pages7 7 -78 hereof.
Changes in internal control over financial reporting.
On December12, 2006, Abbott acquired Kos Pharmaceuticals,Inc. During the quarter ended December31, 2006, there were no other changes in Abbotts internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Rule13a-15(f) under the Exchange Act) that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, Abbotts internal control over financial reporting.
ITEM9B.
OTHER INFORMATION None.
93 PARTIII ITEM10.
DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Incorporated herein by reference are Information Concerning Nominees for Directors, Committees of the Board of Directors, Section16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance, and Procedure for Recommendation and Nomination of Directors and Transaction of Business at Annual Meeting to be included in the 2007 Abbott Laboratories Proxy Statement. The 2007 Proxy Statement will be filed on or about March19, 2007. Also incorporated herein by reference is the text found under the caption, Executive Officers of the Registrant on pages20 through23 hereof.
Abbott has adopted a code of ethics that applies to its principal executive officer, principal financial officer, principal accounting officer and controller. That code is part of Abbotts code of business conduct, which is available free of charge through Abbotts investor relations website (www.abbottinvestor.com) and is available in print to any shareholder who sends a request for a paper copy to: Abbott Laboratories, 100Abbott Park Road, Dept.362, AP6D2, Abbott Park, Illinois 60064-6048, attn. Investor Relations. Abbott intends to include on its website (www.abbott.com) any amendment to, or waiver from, a provision of its code of ethics that applies to Abbotts principal executive officer, principal financial officer, principal accounting officer and controller that relates to any element of the code of ethics definition enumerated in Item406(b) of RegulationS-K.
ITEM11.
EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION The material to be included in the 2007 Proxy Statement under the headings Director Compensation, Executive Compensation, and Compensation Committee Report is incorporated herein by reference. The 2007 Proxy Statement will be filed on or about March19, 2007.
ITEM12.
SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS (a) Equity Compensation Plan Information (a) (b) (c) PlanCategory Numberofsecurities tobeissued uponexerciseof outstandingoptions, warrantsandrights Weighted-average exerciseprice ofoutstandingoptions, warrantsandrights Numberofsecurities remainingavailable forfutureissuance underequity compensationplans (excludingsecurities reflectedincolumn(a)) Equity   compensation plans approved by security holders 145,963,678 $ 43.8154 25,616,985 (1) Equity   compensation plans not approved by security holders (2) 97,026 $ 18.9846 4,012,049 (3) Total 146,060,704 $ 43.80 29,629,034 (1) Abbott Laboratories 1996 Incentive Stock Program.
Benefits under the Program include stock options intended to qualify for special tax treatment under Section422 of the Internal Revenue Code (incentive stock options), stock options that do not qualify for that special tax treatment (non-qualified stock options), restricted stock, restricted stock units, stock appreciation rights, performance awards, and foreign qualified benefits. The shares that remain available for issuance under the Program may be issued in connection with any one of these benefits and may be either authorized but unissued shares or treasury shares (except that restricted stock awards may be satisfied only from treasury shares).
94 If there is a lapse, expiration, termination, or cancellation of any benefit granted under the Program without the issuance of shares or payment of cash thereunder, or if shares are issued under any benefit under the Program and thereafter are reacquired by Abbott pursuant to rights reserved upon their issuance, or pursuant to the payment of the purchase price of shares under stock options by delivery of other common shares of Abbott, the shares subject to or reserved for that benefit, or so reacquired, may again be used for new stock options, rights, or awards of any type authorized under the Program. However, the common shares issued under the Program, which are not reacquired by Abbott pursuant to rights reserved upon their issuance or pursuant to payment of the purchase price of shares under stock options by delivery of other common shares of Abbott, may not exceed the total number of shares reserved for issuance under the Program.
The Program automatically authorizes the annual addition of Abbott common stock for use in connection with the grant of Program benefits. The Programs automatic annual addition is equal to 1.5percent of Abbotts total issued and outstanding common shares on the first day of each calendar year beginning January1, 2000.
(2) (i) Perclose,Inc. 1992 Stock Plan and the Perclose,Inc. 1997 Stock Plan.
In 1999, in connection with its merger with Perclose,Inc., Abbott assumed options outstanding under both the Perclose,Inc. 1992 Stock Plan and the Perclose,Inc. 1997 Stock Plan. As of December31, 2006, 97,026options remained outstanding under the plans. These options have a weighted-average purchase price of $18.9846.
(ii) Abbott Laboratories Affiliate Employee Stock Purchase Plan.
Eligible employees of participating non-U.S. affiliates of Abbott may participate in this plan. An eligible employee may authorize payroll deductions at the rate of 1% to 10% of eligible compensation (in multiples of one percent) subject to a limit of US $12,500 during any purchase cycle.
Purchase cycles are generally six months long and usually begin on August1 and February1. On the last day of each purchase cycle, Abbott uses participant contributions to acquire Abbott common shares. The shares purchased may come from either Abbotts authorized but unissued shares or its treasury shares. The purchase price is 85% of the lower of the fair market value of the shares on that date or on the first day of that purchase cycle.
(iii) Abbott Laboratories Employee Share Ownership Plan.
Eligible employees of Abbotts affiliates in the United Kingdom may participate in this plan. Each eligible employee may contribute up to 10% of his or her salary, subject to a maximum statutory limit of 125 per month. Each month, these contributions are used to buy Abbott shares on the open market at its then current market price. The plan contains an employer matching share feature under which the participating employers purchase an Abbott common share on the open market for each share purchased by the employee with the first 1.75% of salary. Matching shares cannot be sold or transferred from the plan for a period of three years from the date of allocation. The plan is tax approved.
(iv) Abbott Canada Stock Retirement Purchase Plan.
Eligible employees of Abbott Canada may participate in the plan. Each eligible employee may contribute to the basic plan an amount equal to 2% of eligible compensation up to an annual maximum of $4,000 (Canadian). Abbott Canada matches employee contributions to the basic plan using a formula that takes into account employee contributions. In addition, the employee can also contribute to the supplementary plan an amount up to 8% of eligible compensation. There is no matching of employee supplementary contributions by Abbott Canada. All contributions of the basic and supplementary plans are combined and used to make monthly purchases of Abbott common shares on the open market at its then current market price. Shares are allocated and 95 accumulated to individual employee stock plans based on individual contributions and the average open market purchase price for a given year. The employee stock purchase plan is managed by the Abbott Canada Treasurer.
(v) Abbott Laboratories Equity-Based Award / Recognition Plan.
Abbott uses stock award plans to motivate and reward employee performance. For example, Abbott shares are awarded to employees who have been granted a patent or met other performance based criteria. Abbott purchases the shares awarded under these plans on the open market.
(3) The number of securities includes: (i) 1,682,997shares available for issuance under the Abbott Laboratories Affiliate Employee Stock Purchase Plan, (ii) 1,258,197shares available for issuance under the Abbott Laboratories Employee Share Ownership Plan, (iii) 611,847 shares available for issuance under the Abbott Canada Stock Retirement Plan, and (iv) 459,008shares available for issuance under the Abbott Laboratories Equity-Based Award/Recognition Plan.
For additional information concerning the Abbott Laboratories 1996 Incentive Stock Program, see the discussion in Note9 entitled Incentive Stock Program, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included under Item8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.
(b) Information Concerning Security Ownership . Incorporated herein by reference is the material under the heading Information Concerning Security Ownership and Security Ownership of Executive Officers and Directors in the 2007 Proxy Statement. The 2007 Proxy Statement will be filed on or about March19, 2007.
ITEM13.
CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE The material to be included in the 2007 Proxy Statement under the headings The Board of Directors, Committees of the Board of Directors, Corporate Governance Materials, and Approval Process for Related Person Transactions is incorporated herein by reference. The 2007 Proxy Statement will be filed on or about March19, 2007.
ITEM14.
PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES Incorporated herein by reference is the material under the headings Audit Fees and Non-Audit Fees and Policy on Audit Committee Pre-Approval of Audit and Permissible Non-Audit Services of the Independent Auditor in the 2007 Proxy Statement. The 2007 Proxy Statement will be filed on or about March19, 2007.
96 PARTIV ITEM15.
EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES Documents filed as part of this Form10-K.
Financial Statements: See Item8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, on page44 hereof, for a list of financial statements.
Financial Statement Schedules: The required financial statement schedules are found on the pages indicated below. These schedules should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements of Abbott Laboratories and TAP Pharmaceutical Products Inc.: AbbottLaboratoriesFinancialStatementSchedules PageNo.
Valuation and   Qualifying Accounts (ScheduleII) 100 SchedulesI,   III, IV, and V are not submitted because they are not applicable or not   required Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting   Firm 101 Individual Financial Statements of businesses   acquired by the registrant have been omitted pursuant to Rule3.05,   paragraph(1) of RegulationS-X TAPPharmaceuticalProductsInc.FinancialStatementSchedules PageNo.
Valuation and   Qualifying Accounts (ScheduleII) 102 SchedulesI,   III, IV, and V are not submitted because they are not applicable or not   required Report of Independent   Registered Public Accounting Firm 103 Exhibits Required by Item601 of RegulationS-K: The information called for by this paragraph is incorporated herein by reference to the ExhibitIndex on pages104 through 110 of this Form10-K.
Exhibits filed (see ExhibitIndex on pages104 through 110).
Financial Statement Schedules filed (pages100 and 102).
97 SI GNATURES Pursuant to the requirements of Section13 or 15(d)of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Abbott Laboratories has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
ABBOTT LABORATORIES By /s/MILES D. WHITE Miles D. White Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer Date: February 22,   2007 Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of Abbott Laboratories on February22, 2007 in the capacities indicated below.
/s/MILESD.   WHITE /s/ROXANNES.   AUSTIN MilesD. White Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and Director of Abbott Laboratories (principal executive officer) RoxanneS. Austin Director of Abbott Laboratories /s/RICHARDA. GONZALEZ /s/WILLIAMM. DALEY RichardA. Gonzalez President and Chief Operating Officer and Director of Abbott Laboratories WilliamM. Daley Director of Abbott Laboratories /s/THOMASC. FREYMAN /s/W.   JAMES FARRELL ThomasC. Freyman Executive Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer (principal financial officer) W. James Farrell Director of Abbott Laboratories /s/GREGW. LINDER /s/H.   LAURANCE FULLER GregW. Linder Vice President and Controller (principal accounting officer) H. Laurance Fuller Director of Abbott Laboratories 98 /s/ JACK M. GREENBERG /s/DAVID   A. L. OWEN Jack M. Greenberg Director of Abbott Laboratories David A. L. Owen Director of Abbott Laboratories /s/BOONE POWELL JR.
/s/W.   ANN REYNOLDS Boone Powell Jr.
Director of Abbott Laboratories W. Ann Reynolds Director of Abbott Laboratories /s/ROY S. ROBERTS /s/WILLIAM   D. SMITHBURG Roy S. Roberts Director of Abbott Laboratories William D. Smithburg Director of Abbott Laboratories 99 ABBOTT LABORATORIES AND SUBSIDIARIES SCHEDULEII VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2006, 2005 AND 2004 (in thousands of dollars) AllowancesforDoubtfulAccounts andSalesDeductions Balance atBeginning ofYear Provisions/Charges toIncome(a) Amounts ChargedOffNet ofRecoveries Balance atEndofYear 2006 $ 203,683 $ 30,365 $ (18,605 ) $ 215,443 2005 231,704 59,498 (87,519 ) 203,683 2004 259,514 66,619 (94,429 )(b) 231,704 (a) Represents provisions related to allowances for doubtful accounts and net change in the allowances for sales deductions.
(b) 2004 amounts charged off, net of recoveries, includes $18,189 allowance transferred to Hospira,Inc.
100 REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLICACCOUNTINGFIRM To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of Abbott Laboratories: We have audited the consolidated financial statements of Abbott Laboratories and subsidiaries (the Company) as of December31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, and for each of the years then ended, managements assessment of the effectiveness of the Companys internal control over financial reporting as of December31, 2006, and the effectiveness of the Companys internal control over financial reporting as of December31, 2006, and have issued our reports thereon dated February15, 2007, which report relating to the consolidated financial statements expresses an unqualified opinion and includes an explanatory paragraph concerning the adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No.158, Employers Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans, and SFAS No.123(R), Share-Based Payment, in 2006; such reports are included elsewhere in this Form10-K. Our audits also included the consolidated financial statement schedule of the Company listed in Item 15. This consolidated financial statement schedule is the responsibility of the Companys management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion based on our audits. In our opinion, such consolidated financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein.
Deloitte & Touche LLP Chicago, Illinois February15, 2007 101 TAP PHARMACEUTICAL PRODUCTS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES SCHEDULEII VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER31, 2006, 2005 AND 2004 (in thousands of dollars) AllowancesforDoubtfulAccounts andSalesDeductions Balance atBeginning ofYear Provisions/Charges toIncome(a) Amounts ChargedOffNet ofRecoveries Balance atEndofYear 2006 $ 57,447 $159,360 $(162,666 ) $ 54,141 2005 44,853 145,684 (133,090 ) 57,447 2004 37,824 130,497 (123,468 ) 44,853 (a) Represents provisions related to allowances for doubtful accounts and net change in the allowances for sales deductions 102 REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLICACCOUNTINGFIRM To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of TAP Pharmaceutical Products Inc.: We have audited the consolidated financial statements of TAP Pharmaceutical ProductsInc. and subsidiaries (TAP) as of December31, 2006 and 2005, and for each of the three years in the period ended December31, 2006, and have issued our report thereon dated February1, 2007 and February16, 2007, as to Note10; such consolidated financial statements and report are included in this Annual Report on Form10-K. Our audits also included the consolidated financial statement schedule of TAP listed in Item15. This consolidated financial statement schedule is the responsibility of TAPs management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion based on our audits. In our opinion, such consolidated financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein.
Deloitte & Touche LLP Chicago, Illinois February1, 2007 103 EXHIBIT INDEX ABBOTT LABORATORIES ANNUAL REPORT FORM10-K 2006 Exhibits32.1 and 32.2 are furnished herewith and should not be deemed to be filed under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
10-K Exhibit Table ItemNo.
3.1 *Articles of   Incorporation, Abbott Laboratories, filed as Exhibit3.1 to the Abbott   Laboratories Quarterly Report for the quarter ended March31, 1998 on   Form10-Q.
3.2 *Corporate   By-Laws, Abbott Laboratories, filed as Exhibit3.1 to the Abbott   Laboratories Current Report dated March16, 2006 on Form8-K.
4.1 *Abbott   Laboratories Deferred Compensation Plan filed as Exhibit4 to   Registration Statement 333-102179.
4.2 *Indenture dated   as of October1, 1993, between Abbott Laboratories and Harris Trust and   Savings Bank filed as Exhibit4.1 to the Abbott Laboratories Quarterly   Report for the quarter ended September30, 1993, on Form10-Q.
4.3 *Form of   Medium-Term Note, SeriesA (Fixed Rate) to be issued pursuant to the   Indenture filed as Exhibit4.3 to the Abbott Laboratories Quarterly   Report for the quarter ended September30, 1993, on Form10-Q.
4.4 *Form of Medium-Term   Note, SeriesA (Floating Rate) to be issued pursuant to the Indenture   filed as Exhibit4.4 to the Abbott Laboratories Quarterly Report for the   quarter ended September30, 1993, on Form10-Q.
4.5 *Resolution of   Abbotts Board of Directors filed as Exhibit4.5 to the Abbott   Laboratories Quarterly Report for the quarter ended September30, 1993,   on Form10-Q.
4.6 *Actions of the   Authorized Officers with respect to Abbotts Medium-Term Notes, SeriesA   filed as Exhibit4.7 to the Abbott Laboratories Quarterly Report for the   quarter ended September30, 1993, on Form10-Q.
4.7 *Form of   $200,000,000 6.0% Note issued pursuant to Indenture filed as Exhibit4.2   to the Abbott Laboratories Quarterly Report for the quarter ended   June30, 1998, on Form10-Q.
4.8 *Actions of   Authorized Officers with respect to Abbotts 6.0% Note filed as   Exhibit4.3 to the Abbott Laboratories Quarterly Report for the quarter   ended June30, 1998, on Form10-Q.
4.9 *Officers   Certificate and Company Order with respect to Abbotts 6.0% Note filed as   Exhibit4.4 to the Abbott Laboratories Quarterly Report for the quarter   ended June30, 1998, on Form10-Q.
4.10 *Form of   $200,000,000 5.40% Note issued pursuant to Indenture filed as   Exhibit4.2 to the Abbott Laboratories Quarterly Report for the quarter   ended September30, 1998, on Form10-Q.
104 4.11 *Actions of   Authorized Officers with respect to Abbotts 5.40% Note filed as   Exhibit4.3 to the Abbott Laboratories Quarterly Report for the quarter   ended September30, 1998, on Form10-Q.
4.12 *Officers   Certificate and Company Order with respect to Abbotts 5.40% Note filed as   Exhibit4.4 to the Abbott Laboratories Quarterly Report for the quarter   ended September30, 1998, on Form10-Q.
4.13 *Indenture dated   as of February9, 2001, between Abbott Laboratories and Bank One Trust   Company, N.A. filed as Exhibit4.1 to Registration Statement 333-55446.
4.14 *Form of 3.5%   Note issued pursuant to the Indenture filed as Exhibit4.29 to the 2003   Abbott Laboratories Annual Report on Form10-K.
4.15 *Actions of   Authorized Officers with Respect to Abbotts 3.5% Notes filed as   Exhibit4.30 to the 2003 Abbott Laboratories Annual Report on   Form10-K.
4.16 *Officers   Certificate and Company Order with respect to Abbotts 3.5% Notes filed as   Exhibit4.31 to the 2003 Abbott Laboratories Annual Report on   Form10-K.
4.17 *Form of 3.75%   Note issued pursuant to the Indenture. Notes filed as Exhibit4.28 to   the 2004 Abbott Laboratories Annual Report on Form10-K.
4.18 *Form of 4.35%   Note issued pursuant to the Indenture. Notes filed as Exhibit4.29 to   the 2004 Abbott Laboratories Annual Report on Form10-K.
4.19 *Actions of   Authorized Officers with respect to Abbotts 3.75% Notes and 4.35% Notes. Filed   as Exhibit4.30 to the 2004 Abbott Laboratories Annual Report on   Form10-K.
4.20 *Officers   Certificate and Company Order with respect to Abbotts 3.75% Notes and 4.35%   Notes. Filed as Exhibit4.31 to the 2004 Abbott Laboratories Annual   Report on Form10-K.
4.21 *Form of 5.375%   Note issued pursuant to the Indenture. Notes filed as Exhibit99.3 to   the Abbott Laboratories Current Report on Form8-K filed on   May11, 2006.
4.22 *Form of 5.600% Note issued pursuant to the Indenture.   Notes filed as Exhibit99.3 to the Abbott Laboratories Current Report on   Form8-K filed on May11, 2006.
4.23 *Form of 5.875% Note issued pursuant to the Indenture.   Notes filed as Exhibit99.3 to the Abbott Laboratories Current Report on   Form8-K filed on May11, 2006.
4.24 *Actions of the Authorized Officers with respect to   Abbotts 5.375% Notes, 5.600% Notes and 5.875% Notes. Filed as   Exhibit99.3 to the Abbott Laboratories Current Report on Form8-K   filed on May11, 2006.
4.25 Officers Certificate and Company Order with respect to   Abbotts 5.375% Notes, 5.600% Notes and 5.875% Notes.
4.26 *Supplemental   Indenture dated as of February27, 2006, between Abbott Laboratories and   J.P.Morgan Trust Company, National Association (as successor in interest   to Bank One Trust Company, N.A.) filed as Exhibit4.2 to the   Registration Statement333-132104.
Other debt   instruments are omitted in accordance with Item601(b)(4)(iii)(A) of   RegulationS-K. Copies of such agreements will be furnished to the   Securities and Exchange Commission upon request.
105 10.1 *Supplemental   Plan Abbott Laboratories Extended Disability Plan filed as an exhibit   (pages50-51) to the 1992 Abbott Laboratories Annual Report on   Form10-K.** 10.2 *Abbott   Laboratories 401(k) Supplemental Plan, as amended, filed as Exhibit10.1   to the Abbott Laboratories Current Report on Form8-K dated   December9, 2005.** 10.3 *Abbott   Laboratories Supplemental Pension Plan, as amended, filed as   Exhibit10.2 to the Abbott Laboratories Current Report on Form8-K   dated December9, 2005.** 10.4 *The 1986 Abbott   Laboratories Management Incentive Plan, as amended, filed as   Exhibit10.5 to the Abbott Laboratories Quarterly Report for the quarter   ended June30, 2003 on Form10-Q.** 10.5 *Abbott   Laboratories Non-Employee Directors Fee Plan, as amended, filed as   Exhibit10.1 to the Abbott Laboratories Current Report on Form8-K   dated February17, 2006.** 10.6 Abbott   Laboratories Non-Employee Directors Fee Plan, as amended and restated effective   as of April27, 2007.** 10.7 *The Abbott   Laboratories 1996 Incentive Stock Program, as amended, filed as   Exhibit10.8 to the Abbott Laboratories Current Report on Form8-K   dated February18, 2005.** 10.8 *Form of Employee   Stock Option Agreement for a Non-Qualified Stock Option granted with an   Incentive Stock Option under the Abbott Laboratories 1996 Incentive Stock   Program, filed as Exhibit10.1 to the Abbott Laboratories Current Report   on Form8-K dated August20, 2004.** 10.9 *Form of Employee   Stock Option Agreement for a Non-Qualified Stock Option under the Abbott   Laboratories 1996 Incentive Stock Program, filed as Exhibit10.2 to the   Abbott Laboratories Current Report dated August20, 2004 on Form8-K.** 10.10 *Form of Employee   Stock Option Agreement for an Incentive Stock Option granted with a   Non-Qualified Stock Option under the Abbott Laboratories 1996 Incentive Stock   Program, filed as Exhibit10.3 to the Abbott Laboratories Current Report   on Form8-K dated August20, 2004.** 10.11 *Form of Employee   Stock Option Agreement for an Incentive Stock Option under the Abbott   Laboratories 1996 Incentive Stock Program, filed as Exhibit10.4 to the   Abbott Laboratories Current Report on Form8-K dated   August20, 2004.** 10.12 *Form of Employee   Stock Option Agreement for a Replacement Stock Option under the Abbott   Laboratories 1996 Incentive Stock Program, filed as Exhibit10.5 to the   Abbott Laboratories Current Report on Form8-K dated   August20, 2004.** 10.13 *Form of Employee   Restricted Stock Agreement under the Abbott Laboratories 1996 Incentive Stock   Program, filed as Exhibit10.6 to the Abbott Laboratories Current Report   on Form8-K dated August20, 2004.** 10.14 *Form of Employee   Restricted Stock Unit Agreement under the Abbott Laboratories 1996 Incentive   Stock Program, filed as Exhibit10.7 to the Abbott Laboratories Current   Report on Form8-K dated August20, 2004.** 106 10.15 *Form of   Non-Employee Director Stock Option Agreement under the Abbott Laboratories   1996 Incentive Stock Program, filed as Exhibit10.8 to the Abbott   Laboratories Current Report on Form8-K dated August20,   2004.** 10.16 *Form of   Non-Employee Director Restricted Stock Unit Agreement under Abbott   Laboratories 1996 Incentive Stock Program, filed as Exhibit10.2 to the   Abbott Laboratories Current Report on Form8-K dated   December10, 2004.** 10.17 *1998 Abbott   Laboratories Performance Incentive Plan filed as Exhibit10.1 to the   Abbott Laboratories Quarterly Report for the quarter ended March31,   1998 on Form10-Q.** 10.18 *Rulesfor   the 1998 Abbott Laboratories Performance Incentive Plan, filed as   Exhibit10.17 to the 2004 Abbott Laboratories Annual Report on   Form10-K.** 10.19 *Form of Employee   Stock Option Agreement for a Non-Qualified Stock Option granted with an   Incentive Stock Option under the Abbott Laboratories 1996 Incentive Stock   Program on or after February18, 2005, filed as Exhibit10.1 to the   Abbott Laboratories Current Report on Form8-K dated February18,   2005.** 10.20 *Form of Employee   Stock Option Agreement for a new Non-Qualified Stock Option under the Abbott   Laboratories 1996 Incentive Stock Program granted on or after   February18, 2005, filed as Exhibit10.2 to the Abbott Laboratories   Current Report on Form8-K dated February18, 2005.** 10.21 *Form of Employee   Stock Option Agreement for an Incentive Stock Option granted with a   Non-Qualified Stock Option under the Abbott Laboratories 1996 Incentive Stock   Program on or after February18, 2005, filed as Exhibit10.3 to the   Abbott Laboratories Current Report on Form8-K dated   February18, 2005.** 10.22 *Form of Employee   Stock Option Agreement for an Incentive Stock Option under the Abbott   Laboratories 1996 Incentive Stock Program granted on or after   February18, 2005, filed as Exhibit10.4 to the Abbott Laboratories   Current Report on Form8-K dated February18, 2005.** 10.23 *Form of Employee   Restricted Stock Agreement under the Abbott Laboratories 1996 Incentive Stock   Program, filed as Exhibit10.5 to the Abbott Laboratories Current Report   on Form8-K dated February18, 2005.** 10.24 *Form of Employee   Restricted Stock Unit Agreement under the Abbott Laboratories 1996 Incentive   Stock Program, filed as Exhibit10.6 to the Abbott Laboratories Current   Report on Form8-K dated February18, 2005.** 10.25 *Form of   Non-Employee Director Stock Option Agreement under the Abbott Laboratories   1996 Incentive Stock Program granted on or after February18, 2005,   filed as Exhibit10.7 to the Abbott Laboratories Current Report on   Form8-K dated February18, 2005.** 10.26 *Form of   Agreement Between Abbott Laboratories and W. G. Dempsey and H. Liepmann regarding   Change in Control filed as Exhibit10.6 to the Abbott Laboratories   Quarterly Report for the quarter ended June30, 2003 on Form10-Q.** 10.27 Base Salary of   Named Executive Officers.** 107 10.28 *Transaction   Agreement between Boston Scientific Corporation and Abbott Laboratories,   dated as of January8, 2006, filed as Exhibit10.28 to the 2005   Abbott Laboratories Annual Report on Form10-K.
10.29 *Amendment   No.1 to Transaction Agreement dated as of January16, 2006,   between Boston Scientific Corporation and Abbott Laboratories, filed as   Exhibit10.29 to the 2005 Abbott Laboratories Annual Report on   Form10-K.
10.30 *Amendment   No.2 to Transaction Agreement dated as of January16, 2006,   between Boston Scientific Corporation and Abbott Laboratories, filed as   Exhibit10.30 to the 2005 Abbott Laboratories Annual Report on   Form10-K.
10.31 *Amendment   No.3 to Transaction Agreement dated as of February22, 2006,   between Boston Scientific Corporation and Abbott Laboratories, filed as   Exhibit10.1 to the Abbott Laboratories Quarterly Report for the quarter   ended March31, 2006.
10.32 *Amendment   No.4 to Transaction Agreement dated as of April5, 2006, between   Boston Scientific Corporation and Abbott Laboratories, filed as   Exhibit10.2 to the Abbott Laboratories Quarterly Report for the quarter   ended March31, 2006.
10.33 *Purchase   Agreement, dated as of April21, 2006, between Guidant Corporation and   Abbott Laboratories, filed as Exhibit10.1 to the Abbott Laboratories   Quarterly Report for the quarter ended June30, 2006.
10.34 *Amendment to   Purchase Agreement, dated as of April21, 2006, between Guidant   Corporation and Abbott Laboratories, filed as Exhibit10.2 to the Abbott   Laboratories Quarterly Report for the quarter ended June30, 2006.
10.35 *Promissory Note,   dated April21, 2006, from BSC International Holding Ltd., filed as   Exhibit10.3 to the Abbott Laboratories Quarterly Report for the quarter   ended June30, 2006.
10.36 *Subscription and   Stockholder Agreement, dated as of April21, 2006, between Boston   Scientific Corporation and Abbott Laboratories, filed as Exhibit10.4 to   the Abbott Laboratories Quarterly Report for the quarter ended June30,   2006.
10.37 *Amendment to   Subscription and Stockholder Agreement, dated as of April21, 2006,   between Boston Scientific Corporation and Abbott Laboratories, filed as   Exhibit10.5 to the Abbott Laboratories Quarterly Report for the quarter   ended June30, 2006.
10.38 *Form of Time   Sharing Agreement between Abbott Laboratories,Inc. and M.D. White, R.A.Gonzalez,   and T.C.Freyman, filed as Exhibit10.6 to the Abbott Laboratories   Quarterly Report for the quarter ended June30, 2006.**.
10.39 *Form of   Performance Restricted Stock Agreement for an award of performance restricted   stock under Section10 of the Abbott Laboratories 1996 Incentive Stock   Program granted on or after February17, 2006 filed as Exhibit10.1   to the Abbott Laboratories Current Report dated February16, 2006 on   Form8-K.** 10.40 *Form of   Performance Restricted Stock Agreement for an award of performance restricted   stock under Section11 of the Abbott Laboratories 1996 Incentive Stock   Program granted on or after February17, 2006 filed as Exhibit10.2   to the Abbott Laboratories Current Report dated February16, 2006 on   Form8-K.** 108 10.41 *Form of   Performance Restricted Stock Unit Agreement for an award of performance   restricted stock units under the Abbott Laboratories 1996 Incentive Stock   Program granted on or after February17, 2006 filed as Exhibit10.3   to the Abbott Laboratories Current Report dated February16, 2006 on   Form8-K.** 10.42 *Form of   Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement for an award of non-qualified stock   options under the Abbott Laboratories 1996 Incentive Stock Program granted on   or after February17, 2006 filed as Exhibit10.4 to the Abbott   Laboratories Current Report dated February16, 2006 on Form8-K.** 10.43 *Form of   Restricted Stock Unit Agreement for an award of restricted stock units under   the Abbott Laboratories 1996 Incentive Stock Program granted on or after   February17, 2006 filed as Exhibit10.5 to the Abbott Laboratories   Current Report dated February16, 2006 on Form8-K.** 10.44 *Stock Purchase   Agreement, dated November5, 2006, among Abbott Laboratories, Michael   Jaharis, Kathryn Jaharis, Steven Jaharis, Daniel Bell and Steven K. Aronoff,   filed as Exhibit99.1 to the Abbott Laboratories Current Report on   Form8-K filed on November9, 2006.
10.45 *Shareholders   Agreement, dated as of November5, 2006, among Abbott Laboratories,   Michael Jaharis, Mary Jaharis, Kathryn Jaharis, Steven Jaharis, Wilson Point   Holdings,LP, Kos Investments,Inc., Cubs Management,LLC, Kos   Holdings,Inc., Jaharis Holdings,LLC, Steven Jaharis Generational   Trust, 2002 Mary Jaharis Grantor Retained Annuity Trust2, Michael and   Mary Jaharis Alaska Community Property Trust, Kathryn Jaharis and Richard   Ledes Joint Account, the Jaharis Family Foundation,Inc. and Michael   Steven Jaharis Trust1, filed as Exhibit99.2 to the Abbott Laboratories   Current Report on Form8-K filed on November9, 2006.
10.46 *Agreement and   Plan of Merger, dated as of November5, 2006, among Abbott Laboratories,   Parthenon Acquisition Corp. f/k/a S&GNutritionals,Inc. and   Kos Pharmaceuticals,Inc., filed as Exhibit2.1 to the Abbott   Laboratories Current Report dated November9, 2006 on Form8-K.
10.47 *Assignment,   Assumption and Amendment Agreement, dated as of November13, 2006, among   Abbott Laboratories, Parthenon Acquisition Corp. f/k/a S&GNutritionals,Inc.,   and Kos Pharmaceuticals,Inc., filed as Exhibit99(d)(2) to the   Abbott Laboratories ScheduleTO dated November14, 2006 on   FormSCTO.
10.48 Transaction   Agreement, dated as of January18, 2007, by and between Abbott   Laboratories and General Electric Company.*** 10.49 Form of   Performance Restricted Stock Agreement for an award of performance restricted   stock under Section10 of the Abbott Laboratories 1996 Incentive Stock   Program granted on or after February16, 2007.** 10.50 Form of   Performance Restricted Stock Agreement for an award of performance restricted   stock under Section11 of the Abbott Laboratories 1996 Incentive Stock   Program granted on or after February16, 2007.** 109 10.51 Form of   Performance Restricted Stock Unit Agreement for an award of performance   restricted stock units under the Abbott Laboratories 1996 Incentive Stock   Program granted on or after February16, 2007.** 10.52 Form of   Restricted Stock Unit Agreement for an award of restricted stock units under   the Abbott Laboratories 1996 Incentive Stock Program granted on or after   February16, 2007.** 12 Computation of   Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges.
21 Subsidiaries of   Abbott Laboratories.
23.1 Consent of   Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm.
23.2 Consent of   Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm.
31.1 Certification of   Chief Executive Officer Required by Rule13a-14(a) (17 CFR 240.13a-14(a)).
31.2 Certification of   Chief Financial Officer Required by Rule13a-14(a) (17 CFR 240.13a-14(a)).
32.1 Certification of   Chief Executive Officer Pursuant to 18U.S.C. Section1350, as   adopted pursuant to Section906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
32.2 Certification of   Chief Financial Officer Pursuant to 18U.S.C. Section1350, as   adopted pursuant to Section906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
The 2007 Abbott Laboratories Proxy Statement will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission under separate cover on or about March19, 2007.
* Incorporated herein by reference. Commission file number 1-2189.
** Denotes management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement required to be filed as an exhibit hereto.
*** The schedules and exhibits hereto have been omitted. Abbott hereby undertakes to furnish supplementally a copy of any omitted schedule or exhibit to the Securities and Exchange Commission upon request.
Abbott will furnish copies of any of the above exhibits to a shareholder upon written request to the Corporate Secretary, Abbott Laboratories, 100Abbott Park Road, Abbott Park, Illinois 60064-6400.