http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1116132/000114420409044645/v157845_10k.htm
6400000000.0
COH
2009-08-19
10-K
COH_2009-08-19_10-K.txt

10-K 1 v157845_10k.htm UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D.C. 20549 FORM 10-K x ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 For the Fiscal Year Ended June 27, 2009 OR o TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 Commission File Number: 1-16153 Coach, Inc.
(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in Its Charter) Maryland 52-2242751 (State or Other Jurisdiction of Incorporation or Organization) (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.) 516 West 34 th Street, New York, NY 10001 (Address of Principal Executive Offices); (Zip Code) (212) 594-1850 (Registrants Telephone Number, Including Area Code) Securities Registered Pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: Title of Each Class: Name of Each Exchange on Which Registered Common Stock, par value $.01 per share New York Stock Exchange Securities Registered Pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.
Yes x No o Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act.
Yes o No x Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.Yes x No o Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Website, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to rule 405 of Regulation S-T during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files).Yes o No o Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrants knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.
o Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of large accelerated filer, accelerated filer and smaller reporting company in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.
Large Accelerated Filer x Accelerated Filer o Non-Accelerated Filer o Smaller Reporting Company o Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act).Yes o No x The aggregate market value of Coach, Inc. common stock held by non-affiliates as of December 27, 2008 (the last business day of the most recently completed second fiscal quarter) was approximately $6.4 billion. For purposes of determining this amount only, the registrant has excluded shares of common stock held by directors and officers. Exclusion of shares held by any person should not be construed to indicate that such person possesses the power, direct or indirect, to direct or cause the direction of the management or policies of the registrant, or that such person is controlled by or under common control with the registrant.
On August 7, 2009, the Registrant had 318,081,762 shares of common stock outstanding.
DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE Documents Form 10-K Reference Proxy Statement for the 2009 Annual Meeting of Stockholders Part III, Items 1014 TABLE OF CONTENTS COACH, INC.
TABLE OF CONTENTS Page PART I Item 1.
Business 1 Item 1A.
Risk Factors 9 Item 1B.
Unresolved Staff Comments 12 Item 2.
Properties 12 Item 3.
Legal Proceedings 13 Item 4.
Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders 13 PART II Item 5.
Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 14 Item 6.
Selected Financial Data 16 Item 7.
Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 18 Item 7A.
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 32 Item 8.
Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 33 Item 9.
Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 33 Item 9A.
Controls and Procedures 33 Item 9B.
Other Information 33 PART III Item 10.
Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 34 Item 11.
Executive Compensation 34 Item 12.
Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 34 Item 13.
Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 34 Item 14.
Principal Accountant Fees and Services 34 PART IV Item 15.
Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 34 Signatures 35 i TABLE OF CONTENTS SPECIAL NOTE ON FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION This document and the documents incorporated by reference in this document contain certain forward-looking statements based on managements current expectations. These forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as may, will, should, expect, intend, estimate, are positioned to, continue, project, guidance, target, forecast, anticipated or comparable terms.
Coach, Inc.s actual results could differ materially from the results contemplated by these forward-looking statements due to a number of factors, including those discussed in the sections of this Form 10-K filing entitled Risk Factors and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. These factors are not necessarily all of the important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in any of the forward-looking statements contained in this Form 10-K.
TABLE OF CONTENTS In this Form 10-K, references to Coach, we, our, us and the Company refer to Coach, Inc., including consolidated subsidiaries.
The fiscal years ended June 27, 2009 (fiscal 2009), June 28, 2008 (fiscal 2008) and June 30, 2007 (fiscal 2007) were each 52-week periods. The fiscal year ending July 3, 2010 (fiscal 2010) will be a 53-week period.
PART I Item 1. Business General Development of Business Founded in 1941, Coach was acquired by Sara Lee Corporation (Sara Lee) in 1985. In June 2000, Coach was incorporated in the state of Maryland. In October 2000, Coach was listed on the New York Stock Exchange and sold approximately 68 million shares of common stock, split adjusted, representing 19.5% of the outstanding shares. In April 2001, Sara Lee completed a distribution of its remaining ownership in Coach via an exchange offer, which allowed Sara Lee stockholders to tender Sara Lee common stock for Coach common stock.
In June 2001, Coach Japan was formed to expand our presence in the Japanese market and to exercise greater control over our brand in that country. Coach Japan was initially formed as a joint venture with Sumitomo Corporation. On July 1, 2005, we purchased Sumitomos 50% interest in Coach Japan, resulting in Coach Japan becoming a 100% owned subsidiary of Coach, Inc.
In fiscal 2009, the Company acquired the Coach domestic retail businesses in Hong Kong, Macau and mainland China (Coach China) from its former distributor, the ImagineX group. These acquisitions provide the Company with greater control over the brand in China, enabling Coach to raise brand awareness and aggressively grow market share with the Chinese consumer.
Financial Information about Segments Segment information is presented in Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Narrative Description of Business Coach has grown from a family-run workshop in a Manhattan loft to a leading American marketer of fine accessories and gifts for women and men. Coach is one of the most recognized fine accessories brands in the U.S. and in targeted international markets. We offer premium lifestyle accessories to a loyal and growing customer base and provide consumers with fresh, relevant and innovative products that are extremely well made, at an attractive price. Coachs modern, fashionable handbags and accessories use a broad range of high quality leathers, fabrics and materials. In response to our customers demands for both fashion and function, Coach offers updated styles and multiple product categories which address an increasing share of our customers accessory wardrobe. Coach has created a sophisticated, modern and inviting environment to showcase our product assortment and reinforce a consistent brand position wherever the consumer may shop. We utilize a flexible, cost-effective global sourcing model, in which independent manufacturers supply our products, allowing us to bring our broad range of products to market rapidly and efficiently.
Coach offers a number of key differentiating elements that set it apart from the competition, including: A Distinctive Brand Coach offers distinctive, easily recognizable, accessible luxury products that are relevant, extremely well made and provide excellent value.
A Market Leadership Position With Growing Share Coach is Americas leading premium handbag and accessories brand and each year, as our market share increases, our leadership position strengthens. In Japan, Coach is the leading imported luxury handbag and accessories brand by units sold.
Coachs Loyal And Involved Consumer Coach consumers have a specific emotional connection with the brand. Part of the Companys everyday mission is to cultivate consumer relationships by strengthening this emotional connection.
Multi-Channel International Distribution This allows Coach to maintain a critical balance as results do not depend solely on the performance of a single channel or geographic area. The Direct-to-Consumer 1 TABLE OF CONTENTS channel provides us with immediate, controlled access to consumers through Coach-operated stores in North America, Japan, Hong Kong, Macau and mainland China, the Internet and the Coach catalog. The Indirect channel provides us with access to consumers via wholesale department store and specialty store locations in over 20 countries.
Coach Is Innovative And Consumer-Centric Coach listens to its consumer through rigorous consumer research and strong consumer orientation. Coach works to anticipate the consumers changing needs by keeping the product assortment fresh and relevant.
We believe that these differentiating elements have enabled the Company to offer a unique proposition to the marketplace. We hold the number one position within the U.S. premium handbag and accessories market and the number two position within the Japanese imported luxury handbag and accessories market.
Products Coachs product offerings include handbags, womens and mens accessories, footwear, jewelry, wearables, business cases, sunwear, travel bags, fragrance and watches. The following table shows the percent of net sales that each product category represented: Fiscal Year Ended June 27, 2009 June 28, 2008 June 30, 2007 Handbags 62 % 62 % 64 % Accessories 29 29 28 All other products 9 9 8 Total 100 % 100 % 100 % Handbags Handbag collections feature classically inspired designs as well as fashion designs. Typically, there are three to four collections per quarter and four to seven styles per collection. These collections are designed to meet the fashion and functional requirements of our broad and diverse consumer base. In fiscal 2009, we introduced additional lifestyle collections, of which the Madison collection was the most notable. We also launched a new design, Coach Op Art, which provides us with an entirely new logo platform for the brand. In fiscal 2010, we will introduce additional lifestyle collections and update existing collections. The most notable collection, Poppy, was introduced in July 2009 and offers a variety of fresh silhouettes with a youthful appeal, vibrant colors and accessible price points, targeting both new and existing customers.
Accessories Accessories include womens and mens small leather goods, novelty accessories and womens and mens belts. Womens small leather goods, which coordinate with our handbags, include money pieces, wristlets, and cosmetic cases. Mens small leather goods consist primarily of wallets and card cases. Novelty accessories include time management and electronic accessories. Key fobs and charms are also included in this category.
Footwear Jimlar Corporation (Jimlar) has been Coachs footwear licensee since 1999. Footwear is distributed through select Coach retail stores and over 850 U.S. department stores. Footwear sales are comprised primarily of womens styles, which coordinate with Coachs handbag collections.
Jewelry This category is comprised of bangle bracelets, necklaces, rings and earrings offered in both sterling silver and non-precious metals.
Wearables This category is comprised of jackets, sweaters, gloves, hats and scarves, including both cold weather and fashion. The assortment is primarily womens and contains a fashion assortment in all components of this category.
Business Cases This assortment is primarily mens and includes computer bags, messenger-style bags and totes.
Sunwear Marchon Eyewear, Inc. (Marchon) has been Coachs eyewear licensee since 2003. This collection is a collaborative effort from Marchon and Coach that combines the Coach aesthetic for fashion 2 TABLE OF CONTENTS accessories with the latest fashion directions in sunglasses. Coach sunglasses are sold in Coach retail stores, department stores, select sunglass retailers and optical retailers in major markets.
Travel Bags The travel collections are comprised of luggage and related accessories, such as travel kits and valet trays.
Fragrance Coach, in partnership with Beauty Bank, a division of Estee Lauder, Inc. offers two fragrances. The collections include a perfume spray, purse spray, perfume solid, shimmer powder, body lotion and lip gloss. Coach fragrances are sold exclusively in Coach stores and coach.com.
Watches Movado Group, Inc. (Movado) has been Coachs watch licensee since 1998 and has developed a distinctive collection of watches inspired primarily by the womens collections with select mens styles.
Design and Merchandising Coachs New York-based design team, led by its Executive Creative Director, is responsible for conceptualizing and directing the design of all Coach products. Designers have access to Coachs extensive archives of product designs created over the past nearly 70 years, which are a valuable resource for new product concepts. Coach designers are also supported by a strong merchandising team that analyzes sales, market trends and consumer preferences to identify business opportunities that help guide each seasons design process. Merchandisers also analyze products and edit, add and delete to achieve profitable sales across all channels. The product category teams, each comprised of design, merchandising/product development and sourcing specialists, help Coach execute design concepts that are consistent with the brands strategic direction.
During fiscal 2008, the Company announced a new business initiative, formerly referred to as Collection, to drive brand creativity. This initiative has evolved into a brand of its own, Reed Krakoff, and is supported by a new team of designers and merchandisers and will encompass all womens categories, with a focus on ready-to-wear, handbags, womens accessories, footwear and jewelry. Reed Krakoff, as a stand alone brand separate from the Coach brand, will target the true luxury market. We expect to introduce the Reed Krakoff brand in fiscal year 2011.
Coachs design and merchandising teams work in close collaboration with all of our licensing partners to ensure that the licensed products (watches, footwear and eyewear) are conceptualized and designed to address the intended market opportunity and convey the distinctive perspective and lifestyle associated with the Coach brand.
Segments Coach operates in two reportable segments: Direct-to-Consumer and Indirect. The reportable segments represent channels of distribution that offer similar products, service and marketing strategies.
Direct-to-Consumer Segment The Direct-to-Consumer segment consists of channels that provide us with immediate, controlled access to consumers: Coach-operated stores in North America, Japan, Hong Kong, Macau and mainland China, the Internet and the Coach catalog. This segment represented approximately 84% of Coachs total net sales in fiscal 2009, with North American stores, Coach Japan, the Internet and Coach China contributing approximately 61%, 21%, 2% and 1% of total net sales, respectively.
North American Retail Stores Coach stores are located in regional shopping centers and metropolitan areas throughout the U.S. and Canada. The retail stores carry an assortment of products depending on their size and location. Our flagship stores, which offer the broadest assortment of Coach products, are located in high-visibility locations such as New York, Chicago, San Francisco and Toronto.
Our stores are sophisticated, sleek, modern and inviting. They showcase the world of Coach and enhance the shopping experience while reinforcing the image of the Coach brand. The modern store design creates a distinctive environment to display our products. Store associates are trained to maintain high standards of visual presentation, merchandising and customer service. The result is a complete statement of the Coach modern American style at the retail level.
3 TABLE OF CONTENTS The following table shows the number of Coach retail stores and their total and average square footage: Fiscal Year Ended June 27, 2009 June 28, 2008 June 30, 2007 Retail stores 330 297 259 Net increase vs. prior year 33 38 41 Percentage increase vs. prior year 11.1 % 14.7 % 18.8 % Retail square footage 893,037 795,226 672,737 Net increase vs. prior year 97,811 122,489 110,184 Percentage increase vs. prior year 12.3 % 18.2 % 19.6 % Average square footage 2,706 2,678 2,597 North American Factory Stores Coachs factory stores serve as an efficient means to sell manufactured-for-factory-store product, including factory exclusives, as well as discontinued and irregular inventory outside the retail channel. These stores operate under the Coach Factory name and are geographically positioned primarily in established outlet centers that are generally more than 50 miles from major markets.
Coachs factory store design, visual presentations and customer service levels support and reinforce the brands image. Through these factory stores, Coach targets value-oriented customers who would not otherwise buy the Coach brand. Prices are generally discounted from 10% to 50% below full retail prices.
The following table shows the number of Coach factory stores and their total and average square footage: Fiscal Year Ended June 27, 2009 June 28, 2008 June 30, 2007 Factory stores 111 102 93 Net increase vs. prior year 9 9 7 Percentage increase vs. prior year 8.8 % 9.7 % 8.1 % Factory square footage 477,724 413,389 321,372 Net increase vs. prior year 64,335 92,017 39,585 Percentage increase vs. prior year 15.6 % 28.6 % 14.0 % Average square footage 4,304 4,053 3,456 Coach Japan Coach Japan operates department store shop-in-shop locations as well as freestanding flagship, retail and factory stores. Flagship stores, which offer the broadest assortment of Coach products, are located in select shopping districts throughout Japan.
The following table shows the number of Coach Japan locations and their total and average square footage: Fiscal Year Ended June 27, 2009 June 28, 2008 June 30, 2007 Coach Japan locations 155 149 137 Net increase vs. prior year 6 12 19 Percentage increase vs. prior year 4.0 % 8.8 % 16.1 % Coach Japan square footage 280,428 259,993 229,862 Net increase vs. prior year 20,435 30,131 35,487 Percentage increase vs. prior year 7.9 % 13.1 % 18.3 % Average square footage 1,809 1,745 1,678 Coach China Coach China operates department store shop-in-shop locations as well as freestanding flagship, retail and factory stores. Flagship stores, which offer the broadest assortment of Coach products, are located in select shopping districts throughout Hong Kong and mainland China.
4 TABLE OF CONTENTS The following table shows the number of Coach China locations and their total and average square footage: Fiscal Year Ended June 27, 2009 June 28, 2008 (1) June 30, 2007 (1) Coach China locations 28 24 16 Net increase vs. prior year 4 8 6 Percentage increase vs. prior year 16.7 % 50.0 % 60.0 % Coach China square footage 52,671 44,504 25,541 Net increase vs. prior year 8,167 18,963 11,301 Percentage increase vs. prior year 18.4 % 74.2 % 79.4 % Average square footage 1,881 1,854 1,596 (1) During fiscal 2008 and fiscal 2007, these stores were operated by ImagineX group.
Internet Coach views its website as a key communications vehicle for the brand to promote traffic in Coach retail stores and department store locations and build brand awareness. During fiscal 2009, we relaunched the coach.com website, to enhance the e-commerce shopping experience while reinforcing the image of the Coach brand. With approximately 51 million unique visits to the website in fiscal 2009, our online store provides a showcase environment where consumers can browse through a selected offering of the latest styles and colors.
Indirect Segment Coach began as a U.S. wholesaler to department stores and this segment remains important to our overall consumer reach. Today, we work closely with our partners, both domestic and international, to ensure a clear and consistent product presentation. The Indirect segment represented approximately 16% of total net sales in fiscal 2009, with U.S. Wholesale and Coach International representing approximately 10% and 5% of total net sales, respectively. The Indirect segment also includes royalties earned on licensed product.
U.S. Wholesale This channel offers access to Coach products to consumers who prefer shopping at department stores. Coach products are also available on macys.com, dillards.com and nordstrom.com. While overall U.S. department store sales have not increased over the last few years, the handbag and accessories category has remained strong, in part due to the strength of the Coach brand. The Company continues to tightly manage inventories in this channel given weak results at point-of-sale.
Coach recognizes the continued importance of U.S. department stores as a distribution channel for premier accessories. We continue to fine-tune our strategy to increase productivity and drive volume in existing locations by enhancing presentation, primarily through the creation of more shop-in-shops with proprietary Coach fixtures. Coach custom tailors its assortments through wholesale product planning and allocation processes to better match the attributes of our department store consumers in each local market.
Coachs products are sold in approximately 930 wholesale locations in the U.S. and Canada. Our most significant U.S. wholesale customers are Macys (including Bloomingdales), Dillards, Nordstrom, Saks (including Carsons) and Lord and Taylor.
Coach International This channel represents sales to international wholesale distributors and authorized retailers. Travel retail represents the largest portion of our customers sales in this channel. However, we continue to drive growth by expanding our distribution to reach local consumers in emerging markets. Coach has developed relationships with a select group of distributors who sell Coach products through department stores and freestanding retail locations in over 20 countries. Coachs current network of international distributors serves the following markets: Korea, Taiwan, United States & territories (primarily Hawaii and Guam), Mexico, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, Thailand, Greece, Japan, Malaysia, UAE, Australia, Hong Kong, Indonesia, Russia, Bahamas, Bahrain, France, India, Macau, New Zealand, St. Thomas, United Kingdom, and Vietnam. For locations not in freestanding stores, Coach has created shop-in-shops and other image enhancing environments to increase brand appeal and stimulate growth. Coach continues to improve 5 TABLE OF CONTENTS productivity in this channel by opening larger image-enhancing locations, expanding existing stores and closing smaller, less productive stores. Coachs most significant international wholesale customers are the DFS Group, Lotte Group, Shinsegae International, Shilla Group and Tasa Meng Corp.
The following table shows the number of international wholesale locations at which Coach products are sold: Fiscal Year Ended June 27, 2009 June 28, 2008 June 30, 2007 International freestanding stores 44 37 25 International department store locations 81 83 74 Other international locations 34 23 25 Total international wholesale locations 159 143 (1) 124 (1) (1) Excludes 24 and 16 stores in fiscal 2008 and fiscal 2007, respectively, that were part of the retail businesses operated by the ImagineX group in Hong Kong, Macau and mainland China.
Licensing In our licensing relationships, Coach takes an active role in the design process and controls the marketing and distribution of products under the Coach brand. The current licensing relationships as of June 27, 2009 are as follows: Category Licensing Partner Introduction Date Territory License Expiration Date Watches Movado Spring 98 Worldwide 2015 Footwear Jimlar Spring 99 U.S.
2014 Eyewear Marchon Fall 03 Worldwide 2011 Products made under license are, in most cases, sold through all of the channels discussed above and, with Coachs approval, these licensees have the right to distribute Coach brand products selectively through several other channels: shoes in department store shoe salons, watches in selected jewelry stores and eyewear in selected optical retailers. These venues provide additional, yet controlled, exposure of the Coach brand. Coachs licensing partners pay royalties to Coach on their net sales of Coach branded products. However, such royalties are not material to the Coach business as they currently comprise less than 1% of Coachs total revenues. The licensing agreements generally give Coach the right to terminate the license if specified sales targets are not achieved.
Marketing Coachs marketing strategy is to deliver a consistent message each time the consumer comes in contact with the Coach brand through our communications and visual merchandising. The Coach image is created internally and executed by the creative marketing, visual merchandising and public relations teams. Coach also has a sophisticated consumer and market research capability, which helps us assess consumer attitudes and trends and gauge the likelihood of a products success in the marketplace prior to its introduction.
In conjunction with promoting a consistent global image, Coach uses its extensive customer database and consumer knowledge to target specific products and communications to specific consumers to efficiently stimulate sales across all distribution channels.
Coach engages in several consumer communication initiatives, including direct marketing activities and national, regional and local advertising. In fiscal 2009, consumer contacts increased 14% to over 164 million. However, the Company continues to leverage marketing expenses by refining our marketing programs to increase productivity and optimize distribution. Total expenses related to consumer communications in fiscal 2009 were $50 million, representing less than 2% of net sales.
Coachs wide range of direct marketing activities includes email contacts, catalogs and brochures targeted to promote sales to consumers in their preferred shopping venue. In addition to building brand awareness, the 6 TABLE OF CONTENTS coach.com website and the Coach catalog serve as effective brand communications vehicles by providing a showcase environment where consumers can browse through a strategic offering of the latest styles and colors, which drive store traffic.
As part of Coachs direct marketing strategy, it uses its database consisting of approximately 13 million active households in North America and 3.5 million active households in Japan. Email contacts and catalogs are Coachs principal means of communication and are sent to selected households to stimulate consumer purchases and build brand awareness. During fiscal 2009, the Company sent approximately 94 million emails to strategically selected customers as we continue to evolve our internet outreach to maximize productivity while streamlining distribution. In fiscal 2009, the Company distributed approximately 5 million catalogs in Coach stores in North America, Japan, Hong Kong, Macau and mainland China. The growing number of visitors to the coach.com websites in the U.S., Canada and Japan provide an opportunity to increase the size of these databases.
Coach continues to explore new technologies such as blogs and social networking websites as a cost effective consumer communication opportunity to increase on-line and store sales and build brand awareness.
The Company also runs national, regional and local advertising campaigns in support of its major selling seasons.
Manufacturing All of our products are manufactured by independent manufacturers. However, we maintain control of the supply chain from design through manufacture. We are able to do this by qualifying all raw material suppliers and by maintaining sourcing and product development offices in Hong Kong, China, South Korea and India that work closely with our independent manufacturers. This broad-based, global manufacturing strategy is designed to optimize the mix of cost, lead times and construction capabilities. Over the last several years, we have increased the presence of our senior management at the manufacturers facilities to enhance control over decision making and ensure the speed with which we bring new product to market is maximized.
These independent manufacturers support a broad mix of product types, materials and a seasonal influx of new, fashion oriented styles, which allows us to meet shifts in marketplace demand and changes in consumer preferences. During fiscal 2009, approximately 72% of Coachs total net sales were generated from products introduced within the fiscal year. As the collections are seasonal and planned to be sold in stores for short durations, our production quantities are limited which lowers our exposure to excess and obsolete inventory.
All product sources, including independent manufacturers and licensing partners, must achieve and maintain Coachs high quality standards, which are an integral part of the Coach identity. One of Coachs keys to success lies in the rigorous selection of raw materials. Coach has longstanding relationships with purveyors of fine leathers and hardware. Although Coach products are manufactured by independent manufacturers, we maintain control of the raw materials that are used in all of our products. Compliance with quality control standards is monitored through on-site quality inspections at all independent manufacturing facilities.
Coach carefully balances its commitments to a limited number of better brand partners with demonstrated integrity, quality and reliable delivery. Our manufacturers are located in many countries, including China, Italy, United States, Hong Kong, India, Thailand, Vietnam, Turkey, Philippines, Ecuador, Malaysia, Mauritius, Peru, Spain and Taiwan. Coach continues to evaluate new manufacturing sources and geographies to deliver the finest quality products at the lowest cost and help limit the impact of manufacturing in inflationary markets. No one vendor currently provides more than approximately 10% of Coachs total units. Before partnering with a vendor, Coach evaluates each facility by conducting a quality and business practice standards audit. Periodic evaluations of existing, previously approved facilities are conducted on a random basis. We believe that all of our manufacturing partners are in material compliance with Coachs integrity standards.
Distribution Coach operates an 850,000 square foot distribution and consumer service facility in Jacksonville, Florida. This automated facility uses a bar code scanning warehouse management system. Coachs distribution center employees use handheld radio frequency scanners to read product bar codes, which allow them to more 7 TABLE OF CONTENTS accurately process and pack orders, track shipments, manage inventory and generally provide excellent service to our customers. Coachs products are primarily shipped to Coach retail stores and wholesale customers via express delivery providers and common carriers, and direct to consumers via express delivery providers. We expect that the facilitys current capacity will support the projected sales growth of the Company over the next several years.
Management Information Systems The foundation of Coachs information systems is its Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) system. This fully integrated system supports all aspects of finance and accounting, procurement, inventory control, sales and store replenishment. The system functions as a central repository for all of Coachs transactional information, resulting in increased efficiencies, improved inventory control and a better understanding of consumer demand. This system was upgraded in fiscal 2008 and continues to be fully scalable to accommodate growth.
Complementing its ERP system are several other system solutions, each of which Coach believes is well suited for its needs. The data warehouse system summarizes the transaction information and provides a single platform for all management reporting. The supply chain management system supports sales and inventory planning and reporting functions. Product fulfillment is facilitated by Coachs highly automated warehouse management system and electronic data interchange system, while the unique requirements of Coachs internet and catalog businesses are supported by Coachs order management system. Finally, the point-of-sale system supports all in-store transactions, distributes management reporting to each store, and collects sales and payroll information on a daily basis. This daily collection of store sales and inventory information results in early identification of business trends and provides a detailed baseline for store inventory replenishment. Updates and upgrades of these systems are made on a periodic basis in order to ensure that we constantly improve our functionality. All complementary systems are integrated with the central ERP system.
Trademarks and Patents Coach owns all of the material trademark rights used in connection with the production, marketing and distribution of all of its products, both in the U.S. and in other countries in which the products are principally sold. Coach also owns and maintains worldwide registrations for trademarks in all relevant classes of products in each of the countries in which Coach products are sold. Major trademarks include Coach, Coach and lozenge design, Coach and tag design, Signature C design and The Heritage Logo (Coach Leatherware Est. 1941) . Coach is not dependent on any one particular trademark or design patent although Coach believes that the Coach name is important for its business. In addition, several of Coachs products are covered by design patents or patent applications. Coach aggressively polices its trademarks and trade dress, and pursues infringers both domestically and internationally. It also pursues counterfeiters domestically and internationally through leads generated internally, as well as through its network of investigators, the Coach hotline and business partners around the world.
Coach expects that its material trademarks will remain in existence for as long as Coach continues to use and renew them. Coach has no material patents.
Seasonality Because Coach products are frequently given as gifts, Coach has historically realized, and expects to continue to realize, higher sales and operating income in the second quarter of its fiscal year, which includes the holiday months of November and December. In addition, fluctuations in sales and operating income in any fiscal quarter are affected by the timing of seasonal wholesale shipments and other events affecting retail sales. Over the last several years, we have achieved higher levels of growth in the non-holiday quarters, which has reduced these seasonal fluctuations.
Government Regulation Most of Coachs imported products are subject to existing or potential duties, tariffs or quotas that may limit the quantity of products that Coach may import into the U.S. and other countries or may impact the cost of such products. Coach has not been restricted by quotas in the operation of its business and customs duties have not comprised a material portion of the total cost of its products. In addition, Coach is subject to foreign 8 TABLE OF CONTENTS governmental regulation and trade restrictions, including U.S. retaliation against certain prohibited foreign practices, with respect to its product sourcing and international sales operations.
Competition The premium handbag and accessories industry is highly competitive. The Company mainly competes with European luxury brands as well as private label retailers, including some of Coachs wholesale customers. Over the last several years the category has grown, encouraging the entry of new competitors as well as increasing the competition from existing competitors. However, the Company believes that as a market leader we benefit from this increased competition as it drives consumer interest in this brand loyal category.
The Company believes that there are several factors that differentiate us from our competitors, including but not limited to: distinctive newness, innovation and quality of our products, ability to meet consumers changing preferences and our superior customer service.
Employees As of June 27, 2009, Coach employed approximately 12,000 people, including both full and part time employees. Of these employees, approximately 4,100 and 5,900 were full time and part time employees, respectively, in the retail field in North America, Japan, Hong Kong, Macau, and mainland China. Approximately 50 of Coachs employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. Coach believes that its relations with its employees are good, and it has never encountered a strike or work stoppage.
Financial Information About Geographic Areas Geographic information is presented in Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Available Information Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to these reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, are available free of charge on our website, located at www.coach.com , as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission. These reports are also available on the Securities and Exchange Commissions website at www.sec.gov . No information contained on any of our websites is intended to be included as part of, or incorporated by reference into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
The Company has included the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and Chief Financial Officer certifications regarding its public disclosure required by Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 as Exhibit 31.1 to this report on Form 10-K. Additionally, the Company filed with the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) the CEOs certification regarding the Companys compliance with the NYSEs Corporate Governance Listing Standards (Listing Standards) pursuant to Section 303A.12(a) of the Listing Standards, which indicated that the CEO was not aware of any violations of the Listing Standards by the Company.
Item 1A. Risk Factors You should consider carefully all of the information set forth or incorporated by reference in this document and, in particular, the following risk factors associated with the Business of Coach and forward-looking information in this document. Please also see Special Note on Forward-Looking Information at the beginning of this report. The risks described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also have an adverse effect on us. If any of the risks below actually occur, our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition could suffer.
The current economic conditions could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.
The current economic crisis is having a significant negative impact on businesses around the world. Our results can be impacted by a number of macroeconomic factors, including but not limited to consumer confidence and spending levels, unemployment, consumer credit availability, fuel and energy costs, global factory production, commercial real estate market conditions, credit market conditions and the level of customer traffic in malls and shopping centers.
9 TABLE OF CONTENTS Demand for our products is significantly impacted by negative trends in consumer confidence and other economic factors affecting consumer spending behavior. The downturn in the economy may continue to affect consumer purchases of our products for the foreseeable future and adversely impact our results of operations.
The growth of our business depends on the successful execution of our growth strategies.
Our growth depends on the continued success of existing products, as well as the successful design and introduction of new products. Our ability to create new products and to sustain existing products is affected by whether we can successfully anticipate and respond to consumer preferences and fashion trends. The failure to develop and launch successful new products could hinder the growth of our business. Also, any delay in the development or launch of a new product could result in our not being the first to market, which could compromise our competitive position.
Significant competition in our industry could adversely affect our business.
We face intense competition in the product lines and markets in which we operate. Our competitors are European luxury brands as well as private label retailers, including some of Coachs wholesale customers. There is a risk that our competitors may develop new products that are more popular with our customers. We may be unable to anticipate the timing and scale of such product introductions by competitors, which could harm our business. Our ability to compete also depends on the strength of our brand, whether we can attract and retain key talent, and our ability to protect our trademarks and design patents. A failure to compete effectively could adversely affect our growth and profitability.
We face risks associated with operating in international markets.
We operate on a global basis, with approximately 28% of our net sales coming from operations outside the U.S. However, sales to our international wholesale customers are denominated in U.S. dollars. While geographic diversity helps to reduce the Companys exposure to risks in any one country, we are subject to risks associated with international operations, including, but not limited to:  changes in exchange rates for foreign currencies, which may adversely affect the retail prices of our products, result in decreased international consumer demand, or increase our supply costs in those markets, with a corresponding negative impact on our gross margin rates,  political or economic instability or changing macroeconomic conditions in our major markets, and  changes in foreign or domestic legal and regulatory requirements resulting in the imposition of new or more onerous trade restrictions, tariffs, embargoes, exchange or other government controls.
To minimize the impact on earnings of foreign currency rate movements, we monitor our foreign currency exposure in Japan through foreign currency hedging of Coach Japans U.S. dollar-denominated inventory purchases. We cannot ensure, however, that these hedges will succeed in offsetting any negative impact of foreign currency rate movements.
A downturn in the economy could affect consumer purchases of luxury items and adversely affect our business.
Many factors affect the level of consumer spending in the premium handbag and accessories market, including, among others, general business conditions, interest rates, the availability of consumer credit, taxation and consumer confidence in future economic conditions. Consumer purchases of discretionary luxury items, such as Coach products, tend to decline during recessionary periods, when disposable income is lower. A downturn in the economies in which Coach sells its products may adversely affect Coachs sales.
Our business is subject to the risks inherent in global sourcing activities.
As a company engaged in sourcing on a global scale, we are subject to the risks inherent in such activities, including, but not limited to:  availability of raw materials,  compliance with labor laws and other foreign governmental regulations, 10 TABLE OF CONTENTS  compliance with our Global Business Practices,  disruptions or delays in shipments,  loss or impairment of key manufacturing sites,  product quality issues,  political unrest, and  natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism and other external factors over which we have no control.
While we have business continuity and contingency plans for our sourcing sites, significant disruption of manufacturing for any of the above reasons could interrupt product supply and, if not remedied in a timely manner, could have an adverse impact on our business.
Our business is subject to increased costs due to excess inventories if we misjudge the demand for our products.
If Coach misjudges the market for its products it may be faced with significant excess inventories for some products and missed opportunities for other products. In addition, because Coach places orders for products with its manufacturers before it receives wholesale customers orders, it could experience higher excess inventories if wholesale customers order fewer products than anticipated.
Our operating results are subject to seasonal and quarterly fluctuations, which could adversely affect the market price of Coach common stock.
Because Coach products are frequently given as gifts, Coach has historically realized, and expects to continue to realize, higher sales and operating income in the second quarter of its fiscal year, which includes the holiday months of November and December. In addition, fluctuations in sales and operating income in any fiscal quarter are affected by the timing of seasonal wholesale shipments and other events affecting retail sales. However, over the past several years, we have achieved higher levels of growth in the non-holiday quarters, which has reduced these seasonal fluctuations.
If we are unable to pay quarterly dividends at intended levels, our reputation and stock price may be harmed.
Our quarterly cash dividend is currently $0.075 per common share. The dividend program requires the use of a modest portion of our cash flow. Our ability to pay dividends will depend on our ability to generate sufficient cash flows from operations in the future. This ability may be subject to certain economic, financial, competitive and other factors that are beyond our control. Our Board of Directors may, at its discretion, decrease the intended level of dividends or entirely discontinue the payment of dividends at any time. Any failure to pay dividends after we have announced our intention to do so may negatively impact our reputation and investor confidence in us and negatively impact our stock price.
Provisions in Coachs charter and bylaws, Maryland law or its poison pill may delay or prevent an acquisition of Coach by a third party.
Coachs charter and bylaws and Maryland law contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire Coach without the consent of Coachs Board of Directors. Coachs charter permits its Board of Directors, without stockholder approval, to amend the charter to increase or decrease the aggregate number of shares of stock or the number of shares of stock of any class or series that Coach has the authority to issue. In addition, Coachs Board of Directors may classify or reclassify any unissued shares of common stock or preferred stock and may set the preferences, rights and other terms of the classified or reclassified shares. Although Coachs Board of Directors has no intention to do so at the present time, it could establish a series of preferred stock that could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for Coachs common stock or otherwise be in the best interest of Coachs stockholders.
On May 3, 2001 Coach declared a poison pill dividend distribution of rights to buy additional common stock to the holder of each outstanding share of Coachs common stock. Subject to limited 11 TABLE OF CONTENTS exceptions, these rights may be exercised if a person or group intentionally acquires 10% or more of Coachs common stock or announces a tender offer for 10% or more of the common stock on terms not approved by the Coach Board of Directors. In this event, each right would entitle the holder of each share of Coachs common stock to buy one additional common share of Coach stock at an exercise price far below the then-current market price. Subject to certain exceptions, Coachs Board of Directors will be entitled to redeem the rights at $0.0001 per right at any time before the close of business on the tenth day following either the public announcement that, or the date on which a majority of Coachs Board of Directors becomes aware that, a person has acquired 10% or more of the outstanding common stock. As of the end of fiscal 2009, there were no shareholders whose common stock holdings exceeded the 10% threshold established by the rights plan.
Coachs bylaws can only be amended by Coachs Board of Directors. Coachs bylaws also provide that nominations of persons for election to Coachs Board of Directors and the proposal of business to be considered at a stockholders meeting may be made only in the notice of the meeting, by Coachs Board of Directors or by a stockholder who is entitled to vote at the meeting and has complied with the advance notice procedures of Coachs bylaws. Also, under Maryland law, business combinations, including issuances of equity securities, between Coach and any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of Coachs common stock or an affiliate of such person are prohibited for a five-year period unless exempted in accordance with the statute. After this period, a combination of this type must be approved by two super-majority stockholder votes, unless some conditions are met or the business combination is exempted by Coachs Board of Directors. Coachs Board has exempted any business combination with us or any of our affiliates from the five-year prohibition and the super-majority vote requirements.
Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None.
Item 2. Properties The following table sets forth the location, use and size of Coachs distribution, corporate and product development facilities as of June 27, 2009. The majority of the properties are leased, with the leases expiring at various times through 2028, subject to renewal options.
Location Use Approximate Square Footage Jacksonville, Florida Distribution and consumer service 850,000 New York, New York Corporate, sourcing and product development 385,000 (1) Carlstadt, New Jersey Corporate and product development 65,000 Tokyo, Japan Coach Japan regional management 32,000 Dongguan, China Sourcing, quality control and product development 27,000 Hong Kong Coach Hong Kong regional management 9,000 Hong Kong Sourcing and quality control 6,000 Shanghai, China Coach China regional management 6,000 Seoul, South Korea Sourcing 3,000 (1) Includes 250,000 square feet in Coach owned buildings. During fiscal 2009, Coach purchased its corporate headquarters building at 516 West 34th Street in New York City for $126.3 million.
As of June 27, 2009, Coach also occupied 330 retail and 111 factory leased stores located in North America, 155 Coach-operated department store shop-in-shops, retail stores and factory stores in Japan and 28 Coach-operated department store shop-in-shops, retail stores and factory stores in Hong Kong, Macau and mainland China. These leases expire at various times through 2024. Coach considers these properties to be in generally good condition and believes that its facilities are adequate for its operations and provide sufficient capacity to meet its anticipated requirements.
12 TABLE OF CONTENTS Item 3. Legal Proceedings Coach is involved in various routine legal proceedings as both plaintiff and defendant incident to the ordinary course of its business, including proceedings to protect Coachs intellectual property rights, litigation instituted by persons alleged to have been injured upon premises within Coachs control and litigation with present or former employees.
As part of Coachs policing program for its intellectual property rights, from time to time, Coach files lawsuits in the U.S. and abroad alleging acts of trademark counterfeiting, trademark infringement, patent infringement, trade dress infringement, trademark dilution and/or state or foreign law claims. At any given point in time, Coach may have a number of such actions pending. These actions often result in seizure of counterfeit merchandise and/or out of court settlements with defendants. From time to time, defendants will raise, either as affirmative defenses or as counterclaims, the invalidity or unenforceability of certain of Coachs intellectual properties.
Although Coachs litigation with present or former employees is routine and incidental to the conduct of Coachs business, as well as for any business employing significant numbers of U.S.-based employees, such litigation can result in large monetary awards when a civil jury is allowed to determine compensatory and/or punitive damages for actions claiming discrimination on the basis of age, gender, race, religion, disability or other legally protected characteristic or for termination of employment that is wrongful or in violation of implied contracts.
Coach believes that the outcome of all pending legal proceedings in the aggregate will not have a material adverse effect on Coachs business or consolidated financial statements.
Coach has not entered into any transactions that have been identified by the IRS as abusive or that have a significant tax avoidance purpose. Accordingly, we have not been required to pay a penalty to the IRS for failing to make disclosures required with respect to certain transactions that have been identified by the IRS as abusive or that have a significant tax avoidance purpose.
Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders None.
13 TABLE OF CONTENTS PART II Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Refer to the information regarding the market for Coachs common stock, the quarterly market price information and the number of common shareholders of record appearing under the caption Market and Dividend Information included herein.
Performance Graph The following graph compares the cumulative total stockholder return (assuming investment of dividends) of Coachs common stock with the cumulative total return of the S&P 500 Stock Index and the peer group companies listed below over the five-fiscal-year period from July 2, 2004 through June 26, 2009, the last trading day of Coachs most recent fiscal year. Coachs peer group, as determined by management, consists of:  Ann Taylor Stores Corporation,  Kenneth Cole Productions, Inc.,  Polo Ralph Lauren Corporation,  Tiffany & Co.,  Talbots, Inc., and  Williams-Sonoma, Inc.
Jul-04 Jul-05 Jul-06 Jun-07 Jun-08 Jun-09 Coach, Inc.
100.00 145.67 129.75 205.64 125.32 117.18 Peer Composite 100.00 100.96 105.59 135.74 88.06 57.70 S&P 500 100.00 107.77 117.07 141.18 122.65 90.45 The graph assumes that $100 was invested on July 2, 2004 at the per share closing price in each of Coachs common stock, the S&P 500 Stock Index and a Peer Composite index compiled by us tracking the peer group companies listed above, and that all dividends were reinvested. The stock performance shown in the graph is included in response to the SECs requirements and is not intended to forecast or be indicative of future performance.
14 TABLE OF CONTENTS Dividend Policy In April 2009, the Companys Board of Directors voted to declare a cash dividend at an expected annual rate of $0.30 per share. The first quarterly payment of $0.075 per quarter, or approximately $23.8 million was made on June 29, 2009 (the first day of fiscal 2010).
Stock Repurchase Program The Company repurchased 20.2 million common shares during the first nine months of fiscal 2009. There were no repurchases of common stock during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009. At June 27, 2009, $709.6 million remained available for future repurchases under the current repurchase plan, which expires in June 2010.
15 TABLE OF CONTENTS Item 6. Selected Financial Data (dollars and shares in thousands, except per share data) The selected historical financial data presented below as of and for each of the fiscal years in the five-year period ended June 27, 2009 have been derived from Coachs audited Consolidated Financial Statements. The financial data should be read in conjunction with Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto and other financial data included elsewhere herein.
Fiscal Year Ended (1) June 27, 2009 (3) June 28, 2008 (3) June 30, 2007 (2) July 1, 2006 July 2, 2005 Consolidated Statements of Income: Net sales $ 3,230,468 $ 3,180,757 $ 2,612,456 $ 2,035,085 $ 1,651,704 Gross profit 2,322,610 2,407,103 2,022,986 1,581,567 1,267,551 Selling, general and administrative expenses 1,350,697 1,259,974 1,029,589 866,860 731,891 Operating income 971,913 1,147,129 993,397 714,707 535,660 Interest income, net 5,168 47,820 41,273 32,623 15,760 Income from continuing operations 623,369 783,039 636,529 463,840 336,647 Income from continuing operations: Per basic share $ 1.93 $ 2.20 $ 1.72 $ 1.22 $ 0.89 Per diluted share 1.91 2.17 1.69 1.19 0.86 Weighted-average basic shares outstanding 323,714 355,731 369,661 379,635 378,670 Weighted-average diluted shares outstanding 325,620 360,332 377,356 388,495 390,191 Consolidated Percentage of Net Sales Data: Gross margin 71.9 % 75.7 % 77.4 % 77.7 % 76.7 % Selling, general and administrative expenses 41.8 % 39.6 % 39.4 % 42.6 % 44.3 % Operating margin 30.1 % 36.1 % 38.0 % 35.1 % 32.4 % Income from continuing operations 19.3 % 24.6 % 24.4 % 22.8 % 20.4 % Consolidated Balance Sheet Data: (4) Working capital $ 936,757 $ 908,277 $ 1,309,299 $ 608,152 $ 418,285 Total assets 2,564,336 2,247,353 2,426,611 1,602,014 1,344,743 Cash, cash equivalents and investments 806,362 706,905 1,185,816 537,565 505,116 Inventory 326,148 318,490 267,779 208,476 158,493 Dividends declared per common share (5) 0.075     Revolving credit facility 7,496    12,292 Long-term debt 25,072 2,580 2,865 3,100 3,270 Stockholders equity 1,696,042 1,490,375 1,888,499 1,165,274 1,031,552 Coach Operated Store Data: (6) North American retail stores 330 297 259 218 193 North American factory stores 111 102 93 86 82 Coach Japan locations 155 149 137 118 103 Coach China locations 28 24 16 10 5 Total stores open at fiscal year-end 624 572 505 432 383 North American retail stores 893,037 795,226 672,737 562,553 490,925 North American factory stores 477,724 413,389 321,372 281,787 252,279 Coach Japan locations 280,428 259,993 229,862 194,375 161,632 Coach China locations 52,671 44,504 25,541 14,240 4,219 Total store square footage at fiscal year-end 1,703,860 1,513,112 1,249,512 1,052,955 909,055 Average store square footage at fiscal year-end: North American retail stores 2,706 2,678 2,597 2,581 2,544 North American factory stores 4,304 4,053 3,456 3,277 3,077 Coach Japan locations 1,809 1,745 1,678 1,647 1,569 Coach China locations 1,881 1,854 1,596 1,424 844 (1) Coachs fiscal year ends on the Saturday closest to June 30. Fiscal years 2009, 2008, 2007, 2006, and 2005 were each 52-week years.
(2) During fiscal 2007, the Company exited its corporate accounts business. See Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information.
(3) During fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2008, the Company recorded certain items which affect the comparability of our results. The following tables reconcile the as reported results to such results excluding these items. See Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, for further information about these items.
16 TABLE OF CONTENTS Fiscal 2009 Income from Continuing Operations SG&A Operating Income Interest Income, Net Amount Per Diluted Share As Reported: $ 1,350,697 $ 971,913 $ 5,168 $ 623,369 $ 1.91 Excluding items affecting comparability (28,365 ) 28,365 (2,012 ) (1,241 ) 0.00 Adjusted: $ 1,322,332 $ 1,000,278 $ 3,156 $ 622,128 $ 1.91 Fiscal 2008 Income from Continuing Operations SG&A Operating Income Interest Income, Net Amount Per Diluted Share As Reported: $ 1,259,974 $ 1,147,129 $ 47,820 $ 783,039 $ 2.17 Excluding items affecting comparability (32,100 ) 32,100 (10,650 ) (41,037 ) (0.11 ) Adjusted: $ 1,227,874 $ 1,179,229 $ 37,170 $ 742,002 $ 2.06 (4) During fiscal 2009, the Company changed its method of accounting for inventories in Japan and retrospectively applied the impact of this change on previously reported balance sheet amounts for fiscal years 2008, 2007, 2006 and 2005. See Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
(5) During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, the Company initiated a cash dividend at an expected annual rate of $0.30 per share. The first quarterly payment of $0.075 per common share, or approximately $23.8 million was made on June 29, 2009 (the first day of fiscal 2010).
(6) During fiscal 2009, the Company acquired its domestic retail businesses in Hong Kong, Macau and mainland China from its former distributor, the ImagineX group. Prior to the acquisitions, these locations were operated by the ImagineX group. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
17 TABLE OF CONTENTS Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion of Coachs financial condition and results of operations should be read together with Coachs financial statements and notes to those statements included elsewhere in this document.
Executive Overview Coach is a leading American marketer of fine accessories and gifts for women and men. Our product offerings include handbags, womens and mens accessories, footwear, jewelry, wearables, business cases, sunwear, travel bags, fragrance and watches. Coach operates in two segments: Direct-to-Consumer and Indirect. The Direct-to-Consumer segment includes sales to consumers through Company-operated stores in North America, Japan, Hong Kong, Macau and mainland China, the Internet and Coach catalog. The Indirect segment includes sales to wholesale customers and distributors in over 20 countries, including the United States, and royalties earned on licensed product. As Coachs business model is based on multi-channel international distribution, our success does not depend solely on the performance of a single channel or geographic area.
In order to sustain growth within our global framework, we continue to focus on two key growth strategies: increased global distribution, with an emphasis on North America and China, and improved store sales productivity. To that end we are focused on four key initiatives:  Build market share in the North American womens accessories market. As part of our culture of innovation and continuous improvement, we have implemented a number of initiatives to accelerate the level of newness, elevate our product offering and enhance the in-store experience. These initiatives will enable us to continue to leverage our leadership position in the market.
Continue to grow our North American retail store base primarily by opening stores in new markets and adding stores in existing markets. We believe that North America can support about 500 retail stores in total, including up to 30 in Canada. We currently plan to open approximately 20 new retail stores in fiscal 2010, of which 14 will be in new markets. The pace of our future retail store openings will depend upon the economic environment and reflect opportunities in the marketplace.
Continue to expand market share with the Japanese consumer, driving growth in Japan primarily by opening new retail locations. We believe that Japan can support about 180 locations in total. We currently plan to open approximately 10 new locations in Japan in fiscal 2010.
Raise brand awareness in emerging markets, notably in China, where our brand awareness is increasing and the category is developing rapidly. In September 2008, Coach successfully completed the first phase of our acquisition of our retail businesses in China, transitioning eight stores in Hong Kong and two stores in Macau. The acquisition of our retail business in mainland China was completed in April 2009, transitioning 15 stores. We currently plan to open approximately 15 new locations in China in fiscal 2010.
We believe the growth strategies outlined above will allow us to deliver long-term superior returns on our investments and drive increased cash flows from operating activities. However, the current macroeconomic environment has created a very challenging retail market in which it is difficult to achieve productivity gains. The Company believes long-term growth can still be achieved through a combination of expanded distribution, a focus on innovation to support productivity and disciplined expense control. Our multi-channel distribution model is diversified and includes substantial international and factory businesses, which reduces our reliance upon our full-price U.S. business. With an essentially debt-free balance sheet and significant cash position, we believe we are well positioned to manage through this economic downturn.
18 TABLE OF CONTENTS Items Affecting Comparability of Our Financial Results The year-over-year comparisons of our financial results are affected by the following items included in our reported results: Fiscal Year Ended (dollars in millions, except per share data) June 27, 2009 June 28, 2008 June 30, 2007 Operating income Cost savings measures $ (13.4 ) $  $  Charitable foundation contribution (15.0 ) (20.0 )  Non-recurring variable expense  (12.1 )  Total Operating income impact $ (28.4 ) $ (32.1 ) $  Interest Income, net Tax-related interest adjustments $ 2.0 $ 10.7 $  Total Interest income, net impact $ 2.0 $ 10.7 $  Provision for income taxes Cost savings measures $ (5.1 ) $  $  Charitable foundation contribution (5.7 ) (7.8 )  Tax adjustments (16.8 ) (50.0 )  Non-recurring variable expense  (4.7 )  Total Provision for income taxes impact $ (27.6 ) $ (62.5 ) $  Net income Cost savings measures $ (8.3 ) $  $  Charitable foundation contribution (9.3 ) (12.2 )  Tax adjustments 18.8 60.6  Non-recurring variable expense  (7.4 )  Total Net income impact $ 1.2 $ 41.0 $  Diluted earnings per share Cost savings measures $ (0.03 ) $  $  Charitable foundation contribution (0.03 ) (0.03 )  Tax adjustments 0.06 0.17  Non-recurring variable expense  (0.02 )  Total Diluted earnings per share impact $ 0.00 $ 0.11 $  Fiscal 2009 Items Cost Savings Measures During the third quarter of fiscal 2009, the Company recorded a charge of $13.4 million, related to cost savings initiatives. These initiatives included the elimination of approximately 150 positions from the Companys corporate offices in New York, New Jersey and Jacksonville, the closure of four underperforming retail stores and the closure of Coach Europe Services, the Companys sample-making facility in Italy.
Charitable Contribution and Tax Adjustments During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, the Company decreased the provision for income taxes by $16.8 million and increased interest income by $2.0 million, primarily as a result of a favorable settlement of a multi-year tax return examination and other tax accounting adjustments. The Company used the net income favorability to contribute $15.0 million to the Coach Foundation.
19 TABLE OF CONTENTS Fiscal 2008 Items Charitable Contribution and Tax Adjustments During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008, the Company decreased the provision for income taxes by $50.0 million and increased interest income by $10.7 million, primarily as a result of a favorable settlement of a tax return examination. The Company used the net income favorability to create the Coach Foundation. The Company recorded an initial contribution to the Coach Foundation in the amount of $20.0 million.
Non-Recurring Variable Expenses As a result of the higher interest income, net and lower income tax provision, the Company incurred additional incentive compensation expense of $12.1 million, as a portion of the Companys incentive compensation plan is based on net income and earnings per share.
Non-GAAP Measures The Companys reported results are presented in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP). The reported selling, general, and administrative expenses, operating income, interest income, net, provision for income taxes, income from continuing operations, net income and earnings per diluted share from continuing operations reflect certain items which affect the comparability of our results. These metrics are also reported on a non-GAAP basis to exclude the impact of these items. The Company believes these non-GAAP financial measures are useful to investors in evaluating the Companys ongoing operating and financial results and understanding how such results compare with the Companys historical performance. The non-GAAP financial measures should be considered in addition to, and not in lieu of, U.S. GAAP financial measures.
Fiscal 2009 The key metrics of fiscal 2009 were:  Earnings per diluted share fell 11.9% to $1.91. Excluding items affecting comparability in fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2008, earnings per diluted share decreased 7.2% to $1.91 per diluted share.
Net sales increased 1.6% to $3.23 billion.
Direct-to-consumer sales rose 6.6% to $2.73 billion.
Comparable sales in Coachs North American stores declined 6.8%, primarily due to the challenging retail environment which resulted in decreased traffic in our full-priced stores.
Coach Japan sales, when translated into U.S. dollars, rose 11.1%. This increase in sales reflects an 11.8% increase due to currency translation.
In North America, Coach opened 33 net new retail stores and nine new factory stores, bringing the total number of retail and factory stores to 330 and 111, respectively, at the end of fiscal 2009. We also expanded 11 retail stores and nine factory stores in North America.
Coach Japan opened six net new locations, bringing the total number of locations at the end of fiscal 2009 to 155. In addition, we expanded three locations.
20 TABLE OF CONTENTS Fiscal 2009 Compared to Fiscal 2008 The following table summarizes results of operations for fiscal 2009 compared to fiscal 2008: Fiscal Year Ended June 27, 2009 June 28, 2008 Variance (dollars in millions, except per share data) Amount % of Net Sales Amount % of Net Sales Amount % Net sales $ 3,230.5 100.0 % $ 3,180.8 100.0 % $ 49.7 1.6 % Gross profit 2,322.6 71.9 2,407.1 75.7 (84.5 ) (3.5 ) Selling, general and administrative expenses 1,350.7 41.8 1,260.0 39.6 90.7 7.2 Operating income 971.9 30.1 1,147.1 36.1 (175.2 ) (15.3 ) Interest income, net 5.2 0.2 47.8 1.5 (42.7 ) (89.2 ) Provision for income taxes 353.7 10.9 411.9 13.0 (58.2 ) (14.1 ) Income from continuing operations 623.4 19.3 783.0 24.6 (159.7 ) (20.4 ) Income from discontinued operations, net of taxes  0.0 0.0 0.0 (0.0 ) (100.0 ) Net income 623.4 19.3 783.1 24.6 (159.7 ) (20.4 ) Net Income per share: Basic: Continuing operations $ 1.93 $ 2.20 $ (0.28 ) (12.5 )% Discontinued operations  0.00 (0.00 ) (100.0 ) Net income 1.93 2.20 (0.28 ) (12.5 ) Diluted: Continuing operations $ 1.91 $ 2.17 $ (0.26 ) (11.9 )% Discontinued operations  0.00 (0.00 ) (100.0 ) Net income 1.91 2.17 (0.26 ) (11.9 ) Net Sales The following table presents net sales by operating segment for fiscal 2009 compared to fiscal 2008: Fiscal Year Ended Net Sales Rate of Increase Percentage of Total Net Sales June 27, 2009 June 28, 2008 June 27, 2009 June 28, 2008 (dollars in millions) (FY09 vs. FY08) Direct-to-Consumer $ 2,726.9 $ 2,557.9 6.6 % 84.4 % 80.4 % Indirect 503.6 622.9 (19.2 ) 15.6 19.6 Total net sales $ 3,230.5 $ 3,180.8 1.6 % 100.0 % 100.0 % In connection with the acquisitions of the retail businesses in Hong Kong, Macau and mainland China, the Company evaluated the composition of its reportable segments and concluded that sales in these regions should be included in the Direct-to-Consumer segment. Accordingly, fiscal 2008 and fiscal 2007 comparable sales have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation.
21 TABLE OF CONTENTS Direct-to-Consumer Net sales increased 6.6% to $2.73 billion during fiscal 2009 from $2.56 billion during fiscal 2008, driven by sales from new and expanded stores, partially offset by a decline in comparable store sales. Comparable store sales measure sales performance at stores that have been open for at least 12 months. Coach excludes new locations from the comparable store base for the first year of operation. Similarly, stores that are expanded by 15.0% or more are also excluded from the comparable store base until the first anniversary of their reopening. Stores that are closed for renovations are removed from the comparable store base.
In North America, net sales increased 5.4% as sales from new and expanded stores were partially offset by a 6.8% decline in comparable store sales and a decline in Internet sales. During fiscal 2009, Coach opened 33 net new retail stores and nine net new factory stores, and expanded 11 retail stores and nine factory stores in North America. In Japan, net sales increased 11.1% driven by an approximately $70.2 million or 11.8% positive impact from foreign currency exchange. During fiscal 2009, Coach opened six net new locations and expanded three locations in Japan. The remaining change in net sales is attributable to Coach China, primarily as a result of the acquisitions of our retail businesses in Hong Kong, Macau and mainland China.
Indirect Net sales decreased 19.2% driven primarily by a 20.8% decrease in U.S. wholesale as the Company reduced shipments into U.S. department stores in order to manage customer inventory levels due to a weaker sales environment. International shipments also declined 6.7% as strong retail sales at locations targeting the domestic customer were offset by a decrease in retail sales at locations serving international tourists. Licensing revenue of approximately $19.5 million and $27.1 million in fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2008, respectively, is included in Indirect sales.
Operating Income Operating income decreased 15.3% to $971.9 million in fiscal 2009 as compared to $1.15 billion in fiscal 2008. Excluding items affecting comparability of $28.4 million and $32.1 million in fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2008, respectively, operating income decreased 15.2% to $1.00 billion in fiscal 2009 as compared to $1.18 billion in fiscal 2008. Operating margin decreased to 30.1% as compared to 36.1% in the prior year, as gross margin declined while selling, general, and administrative expenses increased. Excluding items affecting comparability, operating margin was 31.0% and 37.1% in fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2008, respectively.
Gross profit decreased 3.5% to $2.32 billion in fiscal 2009 from $2.41 billion in fiscal 2008. Gross margin was 71.9% in fiscal 2009 as compared to 75.7% during fiscal 2008. The change in gross margin was driven primarily by promotional activities in Coach-operated North American factory stores and channel mix. Gross margin was also negatively impacted by our sharper pricing initiative, in which retail prices on handbags and womens accessories have been reduced in response to consumers reluctance to spend, and an increase in average unit cost. Coachs gross profit is dependent upon a variety of factors, including changes in the relative sales mix among distribution channels, changes in the mix of products sold, foreign currency exchange rates and fluctuations in material costs. These factors among others may cause gross profit to fluctuate from year to year.
Selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses are comprised of four categories: (1) selling; (2) advertising, marketing and design; (3) distribution and consumer service; and (4) administrative. Selling expenses include store employee compensation, store occupancy costs, store supply costs, wholesale account administration compensation and all Coach Japan and Coach China operating expenses. These expenses are affected by the number of Coach-operated stores in North America, Japan, Hong Kong, Macau and mainland China open during any fiscal period and the related proportion of retail and wholesale sales. Advertising, marketing and design expenses include employee compensation, media space and production, advertising agency fees, new product design costs, public relations, market research expenses and mail order costs. Distribution and consumer service expenses include warehousing, order fulfillment, shipping and handling, customer service and bag repair costs. Administrative expenses include compensation costs for the executive, finance, human resources, legal and information systems departments, corporate headquarters occupancy costs, and consulting and software expenses. SG&A expenses increase as the number of Coach-operated stores increase, although an increase in the number of stores generally results in the fixed portion of SG&A expenses being spread over a larger sales base.
22 TABLE OF CONTENTS During fiscal 2009, SG&A expenses increased 7.2% to $1.35 billion, compared to $1.26 billion in fiscal 2008, driven primarily by an increase in selling expenses partially offset by a decrease in administrative expenses. As a percentage of net sales, SG&A expenses were 41.8% and 39.6% during fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2008, respectively. Excluding items affecting comparability of $28.4 million and $32.1 million in fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2008, respectively, SG&A expenses were $1.32 billion and $1.23 billion, respectively, representing 40.9% and 38.6% of net sales, respectively.
Selling expenses were $981.5 million, or 30.4% of net sales, in fiscal 2009 compared to $865.2 million, or 27.2% of net sales, in fiscal 2008. Excluding items affecting comparability during fiscal 2009 of $5.0 million related to the closure of four underperforming stores, selling expenses were $976.5 million, representing 30.2% of net sales. The dollar increase in selling expenses was primarily due to an increase in operating expenses of North American stores, the newly formed Coach China and Coach Japan. The increase in North American store expenses was primarily attributable to expenses from new and expanded stores opened during fiscal 2009 and the incremental expense associated with having a full year of expenses related to stores opened in the prior year. Fiscal 2009 includes operating expenses of Coach China, which consisted of investments in stores, marketing, organization and infrastructure. The increase in Coach Japan operating expenses was driven primarily by the impact of foreign currency exchange rates which increased reported expenses by approximately $29.1 million.
Advertising, marketing, and design costs were $163.6 million, or 5.1% of net sales, in fiscal 2009, compared to $147.7 million, or 4.6% of net sales, during fiscal 2008. The increase was primarily due to design expenditures and development costs for new merchandising initiatives.
Distribution and consumer service expenses were $52.2 million, or 1.6% of net sales, in fiscal 2009, compared to $47.6 million, or 1.5%, in fiscal 2008. The increase was primarily the result of an increase in fixed occupancy costs related to the expansion of our distribution center that was completed in August 2008.
Administrative expenses were $153.4 million, or 4.7% of net sales, in fiscal 2009 compared to $199.5 million, or 6.3% of net sales, during fiscal 2008. Excluding items affecting comparability of $23.4 million and $32.1 million in fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2008, respectively, expenses were $130.0 million and $167.4 million, respectively, representing 4.0% and 5.3% of net sales. The decrease in administrative expenses was primarily due to a decrease in performance-based compensation expense and lower rent expense as a result of the purchase of our corporate headquarters building.
Interest Income, Net Net interest income was $5.2 million in fiscal 2009 compared to $47.8 million in fiscal 2008. Excluding items affecting comparability of $2.0 million and $10.7 million in fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2008, respectively, net interest income was $3.2 million and $37.2 million. This decrease is attributable to lower returns on our investments due to lower interest rates and lower average cash balances.
Provision for Income Taxes The effective tax rate was 36.2% in fiscal 2009 compared to 34.5% in fiscal 2008. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2008, the Company recorded a benefit of $16.8 million and $50.0 million, respectively, primarily related to favorable settlements of tax return examinations and certain other tax accounting adjustments. Excluding these benefits, the effective tax rates were 38.0% and 39.0%.
Income from Continuing Operations Income from continuing operations was $623.4 million in fiscal 2009 compared to $783.0 million in fiscal 2008. Excluding items affecting comparability of $1.2 million and $41.0 million in fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2008, respectively, income from continuing operations was $622.1 million and $742.0 million in fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2008, respectively. This decrease was primarily due to a decline in operating income and interest income, net, partially offset by a lower provision for income taxes.
23 TABLE OF CONTENTS Fiscal 2008 Compared to Fiscal 2007 The following table summarizes results of operations for fiscal 2008 compared to fiscal 2007: Fiscal Year Ended June 28, 2008 June 30, 2007 Variance (dollars in millions, except per share data) Amount % of Net Sales Amount % of Net Sales Amount % Net sales $ 3,180.8 100.0 % $ 2,612.5 100.0 % $ 568.3 21.8 % Gross profit 2,407.1 75.7 2,023.0 77.4 384.1 19.0 Selling, general and administrative expenses 1,260.0 39.6 1,029.6 39.4 230.4 22.4 Operating income 1,147.1 36.1 993.4 38.0 153.7 15.5 Interest income, net 47.8 1.5 41.3 1.6 6.5 15.9 Provision for income taxes 411.9 13.0 398.1 15.2 13.8 3.5 Income from continuing operations 783.0 24.6 636.5 24.4 146.5 23.0 Income from discontinued operations, net of taxes 0.0 0.0 27.1 1.0 (27.1 ) (100.0 ) Net income 783.1 24.6 663.7 25.4 119.4 18.0 Net Income per share: Basic: Continuing operations $ 2.20 $ 1.72 $ 0.48 27.8 % Discontinued operations 0.00 0.07 (0.07 ) (100.0 ) Net income 2.20 1.80 0.41 22.6 Diluted: Continuing operations $ 2.17 $ 1.69 $ 0.49 28.8 % Discontinued operations 0.00 0.07 (0.07 ) (100.0 ) Net income 2.17 1.76 0.41 23.6 Net Sales The following table presents net sales by operating segment for fiscal 2008 compared to fiscal 2007: Fiscal Year Ended Net Sales Rate of Increase Percentage of Total Net Sales June 28, 2008 June 30, 2007 June 28, 2008 June 30, 2007 (dollars in millions) (FY08 vs. FY07) Direct-to-Consumer $ 2,557.9 $ 2,109.0 21.3 % 80.4 % 80.7 % Indirect 622.9 503.5 23.7 19.6 19.3 Total net sales $ 3,180.8 $ 2,612.5 21.8 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Direct-to-Consumer Net sales increased by 21.3%, driven by increased sales from new stores, comparable stores and expanded stores.
In North America, net sales increased 22.0% driven by sales from new stores, a 9.8% increase in comparable store sales and an increase in sales from expanded stores. During fiscal 2008, Coach opened 38 net new retail stores and nine new factory stores, and expanded 18 retail stores and 19 factory stores in North America. In Japan, net sales increased 23.4% driven primarily by sales from new and expanded stores. Coach Japans reported net sales were positively impacted by approximately $44 million as a result of foreign currency exchange. During fiscal 2008, Coach opened 12 net new locations and expanded 11 locations in Japan. These sales increases were slightly offset by store closures and a decline in the Internet and direct marketing channels.
24 TABLE OF CONTENTS Indirect Net sales increased by 23.7% to $622.9 million in fiscal 2008 from $503.5 million in fiscal 2007, driven primarily by a 16.4% increase in sales in the U.S. wholesale division and a 40.3% increase in sales in the international wholesale division. Licensing revenue of approximately $27 million and $15 million in fiscal 2008 and fiscal 2007, respectively, is included in Indirect sales.
Operating Income Operating income increased 15.5% to $1.15 billion in fiscal 2008 as compared to $993.4 million in fiscal 2007, driven by increases in net sales and gross profit, partially offset by an increase in selling, general and administrative expenses. Excluding items affecting comparability of $32.1 million, operating income increased 18.7% to $1.18 billion. Operating margin was 36.1% in fiscal 2008 compared to 38.0% in fiscal 2007 as gains from increased net sales were offset by a decrease in gross margin and increase in operating expenses. Excluding items affecting comparability, operating margin was 37.1% in fiscal 2008.
Gross profit increased 19.0% to $2.41 billion in fiscal 2008 compared to $2.02 billion in fiscal 2007. Gross margin was 75.7% in fiscal 2008 compared to 77.4% in fiscal 2007. The change in gross margin was driven by promotional activities in Coach-operated North American stores, the fluctuation in foreign currency translation rates and channel mix.
During fiscal 2008, SG&A expenses increased 22.4% to $1.26 billion, compared to $1.03 billion in fiscal 2007, driven primarily by increased selling expenses. As a percentage of net sales, SG&A expenses were 39.6% and 39.4% during fiscal 2008 and fiscal 2007, respectively. Excluding items affecting comparability in fiscal 2008 of $32.1 million, SG&A expenses were $1.23 billion, representing 38.6% of net sales, an improvement of 80 basis points over fiscal 2007, as we continued to leverage our expense base on higher sales.
Selling expenses were $865.2 million, or 27.2% of net sales, in fiscal 2008 compared to $718.0 million, or 27.5% of net sales, in fiscal 2007. The increase in selling expenses was primarily due to an increase in operating expenses of North American stores and Coach Japan. The increase in North American store expenses is attributable to increased variable expenses related to higher sales, new stores opened during the fiscal year and the incremental expense associated with having a full year of expenses related to stores opened in the prior year. The increase in Coach Japan operating expenses was primarily driven by increased variable expenses related to higher sales and new store operating expenses. The impact of foreign currency exchange rates increased reported expenses by approximately $19.2 million. The remaining increase in selling expenses was due to increased variable expenses to support sales growth in other channels.
Advertising, marketing, and design costs were $147.7 million, or 4.6% of net sales, in fiscal 2008, compared to $119.8 million, or 4.6% of net sales, during fiscal 2007. The increase in advertising, marketing and design costs was primarily due to increased expenses related to direct-mail marketing programs and increased staffing costs.
Distribution and consumer service expenses were $47.6 million, or 1.5% of net sales, in fiscal 2008, compared to $53.2 million, or 2.0%, in fiscal 2007. The decrease in these expenses is primarily the result of efficiency gains, partially offset by higher sales volume.
Administrative expenses were $199.5 million, or 6.3% of net sales, in fiscal 2008 compared to $138.6 million, or 5.3% of net sales, during fiscal 2007. Fiscal 2008 expense includes $32.1 million related to the charitable contribution to the Coach Foundation and non-recurring variable expenses. Excluding these charges, administrative expenses were $167.4 million, representing 5.3% of net sales, primarily driven by an increase in employee staffing costs, including share-based compensation expense and an increase in consulting and depreciation expenses as a result of investments in technology systems.
Interest Income, Net Interest income, net was $47.8 million in fiscal 2008 as compared to $41.3 million in fiscal 2007. This increase was primarily due to a reduction of $10.7 million of interest expense, related to a favorable settlement of a tax return examination. Excluding this benefit, interest income, net decreased primarily as a result of lower returns on our investments as a result of lower interest rates.
25 TABLE OF CONTENTS Provision for Income Taxes The effective tax rate was 34.5% in fiscal 2008 compared to 38.5% in fiscal 2007. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008, the Company recorded a benefit of $50.0 million, primarily related to a favorable settlement of a tax return examination. Excluding this benefit, the effective tax rate in fiscal 2008 was essentially flat as compared to the fiscal 2007 effective rate.
Income from Continuing Operations Income from continuing operations increased 23.0% to $783.0 million in fiscal 2008 compared to $636.5 million in fiscal 2007. Excluding items affecting comparability of $41.0 million discussed above, income from continuing operations was $742.0 million, a 16.6% increase over prior year. The increase is primarily attributable to increased net sales as discussed above.
Income from Discontinued Operations In March 2007, the Company exited its corporate accounts business in order to better control the location and image of the brand where Coach product is sold. Through the corporate accounts business, Coach sold products primarily to distributors for gift-giving and incentive programs. The results of the corporate accounts business, previously included in the Indirect segment, have been segregated from continuing operations and reported as discontinued operations in the Consolidated Statements of Income for all periods presented.
In fiscal 2007, net sales and net income from discontinued operations were $66.5 million and $27.1 million, respectively. In fiscal 2008, net sales and net income from discontinued operations were not significant.
Financial Condition Cash Flow Net cash provided by operating activities was $809.2 million in fiscal 2009 compared to $923.4 million in fiscal 2008. The $114.2 million decrease was primarily due to decreased earnings of $159.7 million. The changes in operating assets and liabilities were attributable to normal operating fluctuations.
Net cash used by investing activities was $264.7 million in fiscal 2009 compared to $445.4 million net cash provided by investing activities in fiscal 2008. The $710.2 million change is primarily attributable to a $620.2 million decrease in the net proceeds from maturities of investments, a $103.3 million use of cash related to the purchase of Coachs corporate headquarters building and a $24.4 million use of cash related to the acquisition of our retail businesses in Hong Kong, Macau and mainland China. These items were partially offset by a $37.7 million decrease in expenditures on property and equipment.
Net cash used in financing activities was $440.1 million in fiscal 2009 compared to $1.23 billion in fiscal 2008. The decrease of $790.2 million in net cash used was attributable to an $882.8 million decrease in funds expended to repurchase common stock in fiscal 2009 as compared to fiscal 2008. This decrease in cash used was partially offset by a $76.0 million decrease in proceeds from the exercise of share-based awards and a $24.1 million decrease in the excess tax benefit from share-based compensation.
Revolving Credit Facilities On July 26, 2007, the Company renewed its $100 million revolving credit facility with certain lenders and Bank of America, N.A. as the primary lender and administrative agent (the Bank of America facility), extending the facility expiration to July 26, 2012. At Coachs request, the Bank of America facility can be expanded to $200 million. The facility can also be extended for two additional one-year periods, at Coachs request.
Coachs Bank of America facility is available for seasonal working capital requirements or general corporate purposes and may be prepaid without penalty or premium. During fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2008 there were no borrowings under the Bank of America facility. Accordingly, as of June 27, 2009 and June 28, 2008, there were no outstanding borrowings under the Bank of America facility. The Companys borrowing capacity as of June 27, 2009 was $87.0 million, due to outstanding letters of credit.
26 TABLE OF CONTENTS Coach pays a commitment fee of 6 to 12.5 basis points on any unused amounts and interest of LIBOR plus 20 to 55 basis points on any outstanding borrowings. Both the commitment fee and the LIBOR margin are based on the Companys fixed charge coverage ratio. At June 27, 2009, the commitment fee was 7 basis points and the LIBOR margin was 30 basis points.
The Bank of America facility contains various covenants and customary events of default. Coach has been in compliance with all covenants since its inception.
To provide funding for working capital and general corporate purposes, Coach Japan has available credit facilities with several Japanese financial institutions. These facilities allow a maximum borrowing of 7.6 billion yen, or approximately $79.9 million, at June 27, 2009. Interest is based on the Tokyo Interbank rate plus a margin of 30 to 100 basis points. During fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2008, the peak borrowings under the Japanese credit facilities were $14.4 million and $26.8 million, respectively. As of June 27, 2009 and June 28, 2008, there were no outstanding borrowings under the Japanese credit facilities.
During fiscal 2009, Coach Shanghai Limited entered into a credit facility that allows a maximum borrowing of $10 million at June 27, 2009. This facility is available to provide funding for working capital and general corporate purposes. Coach Shanghai pays a commitment fee of 10 basis points on the daily unused amount if the daily unused amount exceeds 60% of the total facility. Interest is based on the Peoples Bank of China rate plus 2%, per annum. During fiscal 2009, the peak borrowings under this credit facility were $7.5 million. At June 27, 2009, there was $7.5 million of outstanding borrowings under this facility.
Common Stock Repurchase Program On August 19, 2008, the Company completed its $1.0 billion common stock repurchase program, which was put into place in November 2007. On August 25, 2008, the Coach Board of Directors approved a new common stock repurchase program to acquire up to $1.0 billion of Coachs outstanding common stock through June 2010. Purchases of Coach stock are made from time to time, subject to market conditions and at prevailing market prices, through open market purchases. Repurchased shares become authorized but unissued shares and may be issued in the future for general corporate and other uses. The Company may terminate or limit the stock repurchase program at any time.
During fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2008, the Company repurchased and retired 20.2 million and 39.7 million shares of common stock, respectively, at an average cost of $22.51 and $33.68 per share, respectively. As of June 27, 2009, $709.6 million remained available for future purchases under the existing program.
Liquidity and Capital Resources In fiscal 2009, total capital expenditures were $240.3 million and related primarily to the purchase of the Companys corporate headquarters building in New York City for $103.3 million. New stores and expansions in North America and Japan accounted for $71.9 million and $11.3 million, respectively, of total capital expenditures. Approximately $4.0 million related to investments in corporate infrastructure in Hong Kong and mainland China. Spending on department store renovations and distributor locations accounted for approximately $11.4 million of the total capital expenditures. The remaining capital expenditures related to corporate systems and infrastructure. These investments were financed from on hand cash, operating cash flows and by using funds from the revolving credit facility maintained by Coach Shanghai Limited.
For the fiscal year ending July 3, 2010, the Company expects total capital expenditures to be approximately $110.0 million. Capital expenditures will be primarily for new stores in North America, Japan, Hong Kong, Macau and mainland China. We will also continue to invest in corporate infrastructure and department store and distributor locations. These investments will be financed primarily from on hand cash and operating cash flows.
Coach experiences significant seasonal variations in its working capital requirements. During the first fiscal quarter Coach builds inventory for the holiday selling season, opens new retail stores and generates higher levels of trade receivables. In the second fiscal quarter its working capital requirements are reduced substantially as Coach generates consumer sales and collects wholesale accounts receivable. In fiscal 2009, Coach purchased approximately $916.0 million of inventory, which was primarily funded by on hand cash and operating cash flow.
27 TABLE OF CONTENTS Management believes that cash flow from continuing operations and on hand cash will provide adequate funds for the foreseeable working capital needs, planned capital expenditures, dividend payments and the common stock repurchase program. Any future acquisitions, joint ventures or other similar transactions may require additional capital. There can be no assurance that any such capital will be available to Coach on acceptable terms or at all. Coachs ability to fund its working capital needs, planned capital expenditures, dividend payments and scheduled debt payments, as well as to comply with all of the financial covenants under its debt agreements, depends on its future operating performance and cash flow, which in turn are subject to prevailing economic conditions and to financial, business and other factors, some of which are beyond Coachs control.
Commitments At June 27, 2009, the Company had letters of credit available of $275.0 million, of which $101.9 million were outstanding. These letters of credit, which expire at various dates through 2012, primarily collateralize the Companys obligation to third parties for the purchase of inventory.
Contractual Obligations As of June 27, 2009, Coachs long-term contractual obligations are as follows: Payments Due by Period Total Less Than 1 Year 13 Years 35 Years More Than 5 Years (amounts in millions) Capital expenditure commitments (1) $ 2.4 $ 2.4 $  $  $  Inventory purchase obligations (2) 105.1 105.1    Long-term debt, including the current portion (3) 25.6 0.5 1.5 22.9 0.7 Operating leases 877.4 127.3 238.4 193.8 317.9 Total $ 1,010.5 $ 235.3 $ 239.9 $ 216.7 $ 318.6 (1) Represents the Companys legally binding agreements related to capital expenditures.
(2) Represents the Companys legally binding agreements to purchase finished goods.
(3) Amounts presented exclude interest payment obligations.
The table above excludes the following: amounts included in current liabilities, other than the current portion of long-term debt, in the Consolidated Balance Sheet at June 27, 2009 as these items will be paid within one year; long-term liabilities not requiring cash payments, such as deferred lease incentives; and cash contributions for the Companys pension plans. The Company intends to contribute approximately $0.4 million to its pension plans during the next year. The above table also excludes reserves recorded in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standard (SFAS) Interpretation (FIN) 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxesan interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109 , as we are unable to reasonably estimate the timing of future cash flows related to these reserves.
Coach does not have any off-balance-sheet financing or unconsolidated special purpose entities. Coachs risk management policies prohibit the use of derivatives for trading purposes. The valuation of financial instruments that are marked-to-market are based upon independent third-party sources.
Long-Term Debt Coach is party to an Industrial Revenue Bond related to its Jacksonville, Florida distribution and consumer service facility. This loan has a remaining balance of $2.6 million and bears interest at 4.5%. Principal and interest payments are made semiannually, with the final payment due in 2014.
During fiscal 2009, Coach assumed a mortgage in connection with the purchase of its corporate headquarters building in New York City. This mortgage bears interest at 4.68%. Interest payments are made monthly and principal payments begin in July 2009, with the final payment of $21.6 million due in June 2013. As of June 27, 2009, the remaining balance on the mortgage was $23.0 million.
28 TABLE OF CONTENTS Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make estimates and assumptions. Predicting future events is inherently an imprecise activity and, as such, requires the use of judgment. Actual results may vary from estimates in amounts that may be material to the financial statements. The development and selection of the Companys critical accounting policies and estimates are periodically reviewed with the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors.
The accounting policies discussed below are considered critical because changes to certain judgments and assumptions inherent in these policies could affect the financial statements. For more information on Coachs accounting policies, please refer to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
Income Taxes The Companys effective tax rate is based on pre-tax income, statutory tax rates, tax laws and regulations, and tax planning strategies available in the various jurisdictions in which Coach operates. Deferred tax assets are reported at net realizable value, as determined by management. Significant management judgment is required in determining the effective tax rate, in evaluating our tax positions and in determining the net realizable value of deferred tax assets. In accordance with FIN 48, the Company recognizes the impact of tax positions in the financial statements if those positions will more likely than not be sustained on audit, based on the technical merits of the position. Tax authorities periodically audit the Companys income tax returns. Management believes that our tax filing positions are reasonable and legally supportable. However, in specific cases, various tax authorities may take a contrary position. A change in our tax positions or audit settlements could have a significant impact on our results of operations. For further information about income taxes, see Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Inventories The Companys inventories are reported at the lower of cost or market. Inventory costs include material, conversion costs, freight and duties and are determined by the first-in, first-out method. Prior to fiscal 2009, inventory of Coach Japan was determined by the last-in, first-out method. For further information about this change in accounting principle, see Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The Company reserves for slow-moving and aged inventory based on historical experience, current product demand and expected future demand. A decrease in product demand due to changing customer tastes, buying patterns or increased competition could impact Coachs evaluation of its slow-moving and aged inventory and additional reserves might be required. At June 27, 2009, a 10% change in the reserve for slow-moving and aged inventory would have resulted in an insignificant change in inventory and cost of goods sold.
Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets The Company evaluates goodwill and other indefinite life intangible assets annually for impairment. In order to complete our impairment analysis, we must perform a valuation analysis which includes determining the fair value of the Companys reporting units based on discounted cash flows. This analysis contains uncertainties as it requires management to make assumptions and estimate the profitability of future growth strategies. The Company determined that there was no impairment in fiscal 2009, fiscal 2008 or fiscal 2007.
Long-Lived Assets Long-lived assets, such as property and equipment, are evaluated for impairment annually to determine if the carrying value of the assets is recoverable. The evaluation is based on a review of forecasted operating cash flows and the profitability of the related business. An impairment loss is recognized if the forecasted cash flows are less than the carrying amount of the asset. The Company recorded an impairment loss in fiscal 2009 of $1.5 million related to the closure of three underperforming stores. The Company did not record any impairment losses in fiscal 2008 or fiscal 2007. However, as the determination of future cash flows is based on expected future performance, impairment could result in the future if expectations are not met.
29 TABLE OF CONTENTS Revenue Recognition Sales are recognized at the point of sale, which occurs when merchandise is sold in an over-the-counter consumer transaction or, for the wholesale channels, upon shipment of merchandise, when title passes to the customer. Revenue associated with gift cards is recognized upon redemption. The Company estimates the amount of gift cards that will not be redeemed and records such amounts as revenue over the period of the performance obligation. Allowances for estimated uncollectible accounts, discounts and returns are provided when sales are recorded based upon historical experience and current trends. Royalty revenues are earned through license agreements with manufacturers of other consumer products that incorporate the Coach brand. Revenue earned under these contracts is recognized based upon reported sales from the licensee. At June 27, 2009, a 10% change in the allowances for estimated uncollectible accounts, discounts and returns would have resulted in an insignificant change in accounts receivable and net sales.
Share-Based Compensation The Company recognizes the cost of employee services received in exchange for awards of equity instruments, such as stock options, based on the grant-date fair value of those awards. The grant-date fair value of stock option awards is determined using the Black-Scholes option pricing model and involves several assumptions, including the expected term of the option, expected volatility and dividend yield. The expected term of options represents the period of time that the options granted are expected to be outstanding and is based on historical experience. Expected volatility is based on historical volatility of the Companys stock as well as the implied volatility from publicly traded options on Coachs stock. Dividend yield is based on the current expected annual dividend per share and the Companys stock price. Changes in the assumptions used to determine the Black-Scholes value could result in significant changes in the Black-Scholes value. However, a 10% change in the Black-Scholes value would result in an insignificant change in fiscal 2009 share-based compensation expense.
Recent Accounting Pronouncements In September 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued SFAS 157, Fair Value Measurements . SFAS 157 defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value in generally accepted accounting principles and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. The Company adopted the provisions of SFAS 157 related to financial assets and liabilities in the first quarter of fiscal 2009. The adoption of these provisions did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. The remaining provisions of SFAS 157 are effective for the first quarter of the fiscal 2010. For further information about the fair value measurements of our financial assets and liabilities see Note 7.
In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS 158, Employers Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plansan amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106 and 132(R).
SFAS 158 requires an employer to recognize the funded status of a benefit plan, measured as the difference between plan assets at fair value and the projected benefit obligation, in its statement of financial position. SFAS 158 also requires an employer to measure defined benefit plan assets and obligations as of the date of the employers fiscal year-end statement of financial position. The Company adopted the recognition provision and the related disclosures as of the end of the fiscal year ended June 30, 2007, and the measurement provision during the first quarter of fiscal 2009. See Note 13 for further information.
In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS 141 (revised 2007), Business Combinations . Under SFAS 141(R), an acquiring entity will be required to recognize all the assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a transaction at the acquisition-date fair value with limited exceptions. SFAS 141(R) will change the accounting treatment for certain specific acquisition-related items, including expensing acquisition-related costs as incurred, valuing noncontrolling interests (minority interests) at fair value at the acquisition date, and expensing restructuring costs associated with an acquired business. SFAS 141(R) also includes expanded disclosure requirements. SFAS 141(R) is to be applied prospectively to business combinations for which the acquisition date is on or after June 28, 2009. The Company does not expect the adoption of SFAS 141(R) to have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements.
30 TABLE OF CONTENTS In March 2008, the FASB issued SFAS 161, Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activitiesan amendment of FASB Statement No. 133.
SFAS 161 requires qualitative disclosures about objectives and strategies for using derivatives, quantitative disclosures about fair value amounts of and gains and losses on derivative instruments, and disclosures about credit-risk-related contingent features in derivative agreements. This statement was effective for Coachs financial statements beginning with the interim period ended on March 28, 2009. SFAS 161 did not have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements. See Note 10 for further information.
In October 2008, the FASB issued Staff Position (FSP) No. SFAS 157-3, Determining the Fair Value of a Financial Asset When the Market for That Asset Is Not Active which amends SFAS 157 by incorporating an example to illustrate key considerations in determining the fair value of a financial asset in an inactive market. FSP 157-3 was effective on October 10, 2008. The Company has adopted the provisions of SFAS 157 and incorporated the considerations of this FSP in determining the fair value of its financial assets. FSP 157-3 did not have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements.
In December 2008, the FASB issued FSP No. SFAS 132(R)-1, Employers Disclosures about Postretirement Benefit Plan Assets which provides guidance on employers disclosures about plan assets of a defined benefit pension or other postretirement plan. FSP 132(R)-1 is effective for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2009. The Company does not expect the application of this FSP to have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements.
In April 2009, the FASB issued FSP No. SFAS 157-4, Determining Fair Value When the Volume and Level of Activity for the Asset or Liability Have Significantly Decreased and Identifying Transactions That Are Not Orderly which amends SFAS 157 by incorporating a two-step process to determine whether a market is not active and a transaction is not distressed. The Company adopted FSP 157-4 for the annual period ending June 27, 2009. FSP 157-4 did not have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements.
In April 2009, the FASB issued FSP No. SFAS 107-1 and APB 28-1, Interim Disclosures about Fair Value of Financial Statements which amends the interim disclosure requirements in scope for FAS 107, Disclosures about Fair Value of Financial Instruments. The Company adopted FSP 107-1 and 28-1 for the annual period ending June 27, 2009. FSP 107-1 and 28-1 did not have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements.
In April 2009, the FASB issued FSP No. SFAS 115-2 and SFAS 124-2, Recognition and Presentation of Other-Than-Temporary Impairments which amends the other-than-temporary impairment indicators to (a) management has no intent to sell the security and (b) it is more likely than not management will not have to sell the security before recovery. The Company adopted FSP 115-2 and 124-2 for the annual period ending June 27, 2009. See Note 7 for further information.
In May 2009, the FASB issued SFAS 165, Subsequent Events , which formalizes the recognition and nonrecognition of subsequent events and the disclosure requirements not addressed in other applicable generally accepted accounting guidance. This statement was effective for Coachs financial statements beginning with the annual period ended on June 27, 2009. See Note 21 for further information.
In June 2009, the FASB issued SFAS 168, The FASB Accounting Standards Codification and the Hierarchy of Generally Accepted Accounting Principles-a replacement of FASB Statement No. 162.
SFAS 168 states that the FASB Accounting Standards Codification will become the source of authoritative U.S. GAAP recognized by the FASB. Once effective, the Codifications content will carry the same level of authority, effectively superseding Statement 162. The GAAP hierarchy will be modified to include only two levels of GAAP: authoritative and nonauthoritative. This statement will be effective for Coachs financial statements beginning with the interim period ending September 26, 2009. The Company does not expect the application of SFAS 168 to have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements.
31 TABLE OF CONTENTS Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk The market risk inherent in our financial instruments represents the potential loss in fair value, earnings or cash flows arising from adverse changes in interest rates or foreign currency exchange rates. Coach manages these exposures through operating and financing activities and, when appropriate, through the use of derivative financial instruments with respect to Coach Japan. The use of derivative financial instruments is in accordance with Coachs risk management policies. Coach does not enter into derivative transactions for speculative or trading purposes.
The following quantitative disclosures are based on quoted market prices obtained through independent pricing sources for the same or similar types of financial instruments, taking into consideration the underlying terms and maturities and theoretical pricing models. These quantitative disclosures do not represent the maximum possible loss or any expected loss that may occur, since actual results may differ from those estimates.
Foreign Currency Exchange Foreign currency exposures arise from transactions, including firm commitments and anticipated contracts, denominated in a currency other than the entitys functional currency, and from foreign-denominated revenues and expenses translated into U.S. dollars.
Substantially all of Coachs fiscal 2009 non-licensed product needs were purchased from independent manufacturers in countries other than the United States. These countries include China, Italy, United States, Hong Kong, India, Thailand, Vietnam, Turkey, Philippines, Ecuador, Malaysia, Mauritius, Peru, Spain and Taiwan. Additionally, sales are made through international channels to third party distributors. Substantially all purchases and sales involving international parties, excluding Coach Japan and Coach China, are denominated in U.S. dollars and, therefore, are not subject to foreign currency exchange risk.
In Japan, Coach is exposed to market risk from foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations as a result of Coach Japans U.S. dollar-denominated inventory purchases. Coach Japan enters into certain foreign currency derivative contracts, primarily zero-cost collar options, to manage these risks. The foreign currency contracts entered into by the Company have durations no greater than 12 months. As of June 27, 2009 and June 28, 2008, open foreign currency forward contracts designated as hedges with a notional amount of $32.0 million and $233.9 million, respectively, were outstanding.
Coach is also exposed to market risk from foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations with respect to Coach Japan as a result of its $231.0 million U.S. dollar-denominated fixed rate intercompany loan from Coach. To manage this risk, on July 1, 2005, Coach Japan entered into a cross currency swap transaction, the terms of which include an exchange of a U.S. dollar fixed interest rate for a yen fixed interest rate. The loan matures in 2010, at which point the swap requires an exchange of yen and U.S. dollar based principals.
The fair value of open foreign currency derivatives included in current assets at June 27, 2009 and June 28, 2008 was $0 and $7.9 million, respectively. The fair value of open foreign currency derivatives included in current liabilities at June 27, 2009 and June 28, 2008 was $37.1 million and $5.5 million, respectively. The fair value of these contracts is sensitive to changes in yen exchange rates.
Coach believes that exposure to adverse changes in exchange rates associated with revenues and expenses of foreign operations, which are denominated in Japanese Yen, Chinese Renminbi, Hong Kong Dollar, Macau Pataca and Canadian Dollars, are not material to the Companys consolidated financial statements.
Interest Rate Coach is exposed to interest rate risk in relation to its investments, revolving credit facilities and long-term debt.
The Companys investment portfolio is maintained in accordance with the Companys investment policy, which identifies allowable investments, specifies credit quality standards and limits the credit exposure of any single issuer. The primary objective of our investment activities is the preservation of principal while maximizing interest income and minimizing risk. We do not hold any investments for trading purposes. The Companys investment portfolio consists of U.S. government and agency securities as well as municipal 32 TABLE OF CONTENTS government and corporate debt securities. At June 27, 2009, the Companys investments, classified as available-for-sale, consisted of a $6.0 million auction rate security. As auction rate securities adjusted book value equals its fair value, there are no unrealized gains or losses associated with these investments.
As of June 27, 2009, the Company had outstanding borrowings on its revolving credit facility maintained by Coach Shanghai Limited of $7.5 million. The fair value of any current outstanding or future borrowings may be impacted by fluctuations in interest rates.
As of June 27, 2009, Coachs outstanding long-term debt, including the current portion, was $25.6 million. A hypothetical 10% change in the interest rate applied to the fair value of debt would not have a material impact on earnings or cash flows of Coach.
Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data See Index to Financial Statements, which is located on page 36 of this report.
Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure None.
Item 9A. Controls and Procedures Disclosure Controls and Procedures Based on the evaluation of the Companys disclosure controls and procedures, as that term is defined in Rule 13a-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, each of Lew Frankfort, the Chief Executive Officer of the Company, and Michael F. Devine, III, the Chief Financial Officer of the Company, has concluded that the Companys disclosure controls and procedures are effective as of June 27, 2009.
Managements Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting The Companys management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal controls over financial reporting. The Companys internal control system was designed to provide reasonable assurance to the Companys management and board of directors regarding the preparation and fair presentation of published financial statements. Management evaluated the effectiveness of the Companys internal control over financial reporting using the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations (COSO) of the Treadway Commission in Internal Control-Integrated Framework . Management, under the supervision and with the participation of the Companys Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, assessed the effectiveness of the Companys internal control over financial reporting as of June 27, 2009 and concluded that it is effective.
The Companys independent auditors have issued an audit report on the Companys internal control over financial reporting. The audit report appears on page 38 of this report.
Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting There were no changes in internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the fourth fiscal quarter that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, the Companys internal control over financial reporting.
Item 9B. Other Information None.
33 TABLE OF CONTENTS PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance The information set forth in the Proxy Statement for the 2009 Annual Meeting of Stockholders is incorporated herein by reference. The Proxy Statement will be filed with the Commission within 120 days after the end of the fiscal year covered by this Form 10-K pursuant to Regulation 14A under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Item 11. Executive Compensation The information set forth in the Proxy Statement for the 2009 Annual Meeting of Stockholders is incorporated herein by reference. The Proxy Statement will be filed with the Commission within 120 days after the end of the fiscal year covered by this Form 10-K pursuant to Regulation 14A under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters (a) Security ownership of management set forth in the Proxy Statement for the 2009 Annual Meeting of Stockholders is incorporated herein by reference.
(b) There are no arrangements known to the registrant that may at a subsequent date result in a change in control of the registrant.
The Proxy Statement will be filed with the Commission within 120 days after the end of the fiscal year covered by this Form 10-K pursuant to Regulation 14A under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence The information set forth in the Proxy Statement for the 2009 Annual Meeting of Stockholders is incorporated herein by reference. The Proxy Statement will be filed with the Commission within 120 days after the end of the fiscal year covered by this Form 10-K pursuant to Regulation 14A under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
I tem 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to the section entitled Matters Relating to Coachs Independent Auditors in the Proxy Statement for the 2009 Annual Meeting of Stockholders. The Proxy Statement will be filed with the Commission within 120 days after the end of the fiscal year covered by this Form 10-K pursuant to Regulation 14A under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
PART IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules (a) Financial Statements and Financial Statement Schedules See Index to Financial Statements which is located on page 36 of this report.
(b) Exhibits. See the exhibit index which is included herein.
34 TABLE OF CONTENTS SIGNATURES Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
COACH, INC.
Date: August 19, 2009 By: /s/ Lew Frankfort Name: Lew Frankfort Title: Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities indicated below on August 19, 2009.
Signature Title /s/ Lew Frankfort Lew Frankfort Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Director /s/ Jerry Stritzke Jerry Stritzke President, Chief Operating Officer /s/ Michael F. Devine, III Michael F. Devine, III Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (as principal financial officer and principal accounting officer of Coach) /s/ Susan Kropf Susan Kropf Director /s/ Gary Loveman Gary Loveman Director /s/ Ivan Menezes Ivan Menezes Director /s/ Keith Monda Keith Monda Director /s/ Irene Miller Irene Miller Director /s/ Michael Murphy Michael Murphy Director /s/ Jide Zeitlin Jide Zeitlin Director 35 TABLE OF CONTENTS UNITED STATES SECURITES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D.C. 20549 FORM 10-K FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the Fiscal Year Ended June 27, 2009 COACH, INC.
New York, New York 10001 INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Page Reports of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 37 Consolidated Balance SheetsAt June 27, 2009 and June 28, 2008 39 Consolidated Statements of IncomeFor Fiscal Years Ended June 27, 2009, June 28, 2008 and June 30, 2007 40 Consolidated Statements of Stockholders EquityFor Fiscal Years Ended June 27, 2009, June 28, 2008 and June 30, 2007 41 Consolidated Statements of Cash FlowsFor Fiscal Years Ended June 27, 2009, June 28, 2008 and June 30, 2007 42 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 43 Market and Dividend Information 70 Financial Statement Schedules for the years ended June 27, 2009, June 28, 2008 and June 30, 2007: Schedule IIValuation and Qualifying Accounts 71 All other schedules are omitted because they are not applicable or the required information is shown in the consolidated financial statements or notes thereto.
36 TABLE OF CONTENTS REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of Coach, Inc.
New York, New York We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Coach, Inc. and subsidiaries (the Company) as of June 27, 2009 and June 28, 2008, and the related consolidated statements of income, stockholders equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended June 27, 2009. Our audits also included the financial statement schedule listed in the Index at Item 15. These financial statements and financial statement schedule are the responsibility of the Companys management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the financial statements and financial statement schedule based on our audits.
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
In our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of the Company at June 27, 2009 and June 28, 2008, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended June 27, 2009, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Also, in our opinion, such financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein.
As discussed in Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements, effective June 29, 2008, the Company changed its method of accounting for inventories in Japan from determining cost using the last-in, first-out method to determining cost using the first-in, first-out method.
As discussed in Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements, effective July 1, 2007, the Company adopted Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxesan interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109.
We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the Companys internal control over financial reporting as of June 27, 2009, based on the criteria established in Internal ControlIntegrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our report dated August 19, 2009 expressed an unqualified opinion on the Companys internal control over financial reporting.
/s/ Deloitte & Touche LLP New York, New York August 19, 2009 37 TABLE OF CONTENTS REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of Coach, Inc.
New York, New York We have audited the internal control over financial reporting of Coach, Inc. and subsidiaries (the Company) as of June 27, 2009 based on criteria established in Internal ControlIntegrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. The Companys management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying Managements Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Companys internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.
We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
A companys internal control over financial reporting is a process designed by, or under the supervision of, the companys principal executive and principal financial officers, or persons performing similar functions, and effected by the companys board of directors, management, and other personnel to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A companys internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the companys assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Because of the inherent limitations of internal control over financial reporting, including the possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Also, projections of any evaluation of the effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
In our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of June 27, 2009, based on the criteria established in Internal ControlIntegrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.
We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedule as of and for the year ended June 27, 2009 of the Company and our report dated August 19, 2009 expressed an unqualified opinion on those consolidated financial statements and consolidated financial statement schedule and includes an explanatory paragraph regarding the Companys change in method of accounting for valuing inventory in Japan from the last-in, first-out method to the first-in, first-out method.
/s/ Deloitte & Touche LLP New York, New York August 19, 2009 38 TABLE OF CONTENTS COACH, INC.
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (amounts in thousands, except share data) June 27, 2009 June 28, 2008 ASSETS Current Assets: Cash and cash equivalents $ 800,362 $ 698,905 Trade accounts receivable, less allowances of $6,347 and $7,717, respectively 108,707 106,738 Inventories 326,148 318,490 Deferred income taxes 49,476 70,069 Prepaid expenses 48,342 65,569 Other current assets 63,374 99,447 Total current assets 1,396,409 1,359,218 Long-term investments 6,000 8,000 Property and equipment, net 592,982 464,226 Goodwill 283,387 249,118 Intangible assets 9,788 9,788 Deferred income taxes 159,092 81,346 Other assets 116,678 75,657 Total assets $ 2,564,336 $ 2,247,353 LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS EQUITY Current Liabilities: Accounts payable $ 103,029 $ 134,726 Accrued liabilities 348,619 315,930 Revolving credit facilities 7,496  Current portion of long-term debt 508 285 Total current liabilities 459,652 450,941 Deferred income taxes  25,371 Long-term debt 25,072 2,580 Other liabilities 383,570 278,086 Total liabilities 868,294 756,978 Commitments and contingencies (Note 9) Stockholders Equity: Preferred stock: (authorized 25,000,000 shares; $0.01 par value) none issued   Common stock: (authorized 1,000,000,000 shares; $0.01 par value) issued and outstanding318,006,466 and 336,728,851 shares, respectively 3,180 3,367 Additional paid-in-capital 1,189,060 1,115,041 Retained earnings 499,951 353,122 Accumulated other comprehensive income 3,851 18,845 Total stockholders equity 1,696,042 1,490,375 Total liabilities and stockholders equity $ 2,564,336 $ 2,247,353 See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
39 TABLE OF CONTENTS COACH, INC.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME (amounts in thousands, except per share data) Fiscal Year Ended June 27, 2009 June 28, 2008 June 30, 2007 Net sales $ 3,230,468 $ 3,180,757 $ 2,612,456 Cost of sales 907,858 773,654 589,470 Gross profit 2,322,610 2,407,103 2,022,986 Selling, general and administrative expenses 1,350,697 1,259,974 1,029,589 Operating income 971,913 1,147,129 993,397 Interest income, net 5,168 47,820 41,273 Income before provision for income taxes and discontinued operations 977,081 1,194,949 1,034,670 Provision for income taxes 353,712 411,910 398,141 Income from continuing operations 623,369 783,039 636,529 Income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes (Note 17)  16 27,136 Net income $ 623,369 $ 783,055 $ 663,665 Net income per share Basic Continuing operations $ 1.93 $ 2.20 $ 1.72 Discontinued operations  0.00 0.07 Net income $ 1.93 $ 2.20 $ 1.80 Diluted Continuing operations $ 1.91 $ 2.17 $ 1.69 Discontinued operations  0.00 0.07 Net income $ 1.91 $ 2.17 $ 1.76 Shares used in computing net income per share Basic 323,714 355,731 369,661 Diluted 325,620 360,332 377,356 See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
40 TABLE OF CONTENTS COACH, INC.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS EQUITY (amounts in thousands) Shares of Common Stock Preferred Stockholders' Equity Common Stockholders' Equity Additional Paid-in- Capital Retained Earnings Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income/(Loss) Total Stockholders' Equity Balances at July 1, 2006 369,831 $  $ 3,698 $ 775,209 $ 417,087 $ (7,260 ) $ 1,188,734 Net income     663,665  663,665 Unrealized gains on cash flow hedging derivatives, net of tax      4,708 4,708 Translation adjustments      (8,339 ) (8,339 ) Change in pension liability, net of tax      (58 ) (58 ) Comprehensive income 659,976 Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle (Note 3)     (22,827 ) (633 ) (23,460 ) Shares issued for stock options and employee benefit plans 7,692  77 108,241   108,318 Share-based compensation    56,726   56,726 Excess tax benefit from share-based compensation    65,100   65,100 Adjustment to excess tax benefit from share-based compensation    (16,658 )   (16,658 ) Repurchase and retirement of common stock (5,002 )  (50 ) (9,954 ) (139,995 )  (149,999 ) Adjustment to initially apply SFAS 158, net of tax      (238 ) (238 ) Balances at June 30, 2007 372,521  3,725 978,664 917,930 (11,820 ) 1,888,499 Net income     783,055  783,055 Unrealized gains on cash flow hedging derivatives, net of tax      5,782 5,782 Translation adjustments      24,373 24,373 Change in pension liability, net of tax      510 510 Comprehensive income 813,720 Shares issued for stock options and employee benefit plans 3,896  39 83,281   83,320 Share-based compensation    66,979   66,979 Adjustment to adopt FIN 48     (48,797 )  (48,797 ) Excess tax benefit from share-based compensation    23,253   23,253 Repurchase and retirement of common stock (39,688 )  (397 ) (37,136 ) (1,299,066 )  (1,336,599 ) Balances at June 28, 2008 336,729  3,367 1,115,041 353,122 18,845 1,490,375 Net income     623,369  623,369 Unrealized losses on cash flow hedging derivatives, net of tax      (7,278 ) (7,278 ) Translation adjustments      (5,298 ) (5,298 ) Change in pension liability, net of tax      (1,368 ) (1,368 ) Comprehensive income 609,425 Cumulative effect of adoption of FSP FAS 115-2 and FAS 124-2 (Note 7)     1,072 (1,072 )  Shares issued for stock options and employee benefit plans 1,436  15 7,348   7,363 Share-based compensation    67,542   67,542 Tax deficit from share-based compensation    (871 )   (871 ) Repurchase and retirement of common stock (20,159 )  (202 )  (453,584 )  (453,786 ) Adjustment to adopt FAS 158 measurement date provision, net of tax     (183 ) 22 (161 ) Dividend declared     (23,845 )  (23,845 ) Balances at June 27, 2009 318,006 $  $ 3,180 $ 1,189,060 $ 499,951 $ 3,851 $ 1,696,042 See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
41 TABLE OF CONTENTS COACH, INC.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (amounts in thousands) Fiscal Year Ended June 27, 2009 June 28, 2008 June 30, 2007 CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES Net income $ 623,369 $ 783,055 $ 663,665 Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash from operating activities: Depreciation and amortization 123,014 100,704 80,832 Provision for bad debt 909 286 1,845 Share-based compensation 67,542 66,979 56,726 Excess tax deficit (benefit) from share-based compensation 871 (23,253 ) (65,100 ) Deferred income taxes 13,660 (16,907 ) 7,282 Other noncash credits and (charges), net 10,151 6,845 (2,024 ) Changes in operating assets and liabilities: Decrease (increase) in trade accounts receivable 3,309 8,213 (28,066 ) Decrease (increase) in inventories 4,070 (32,080 ) (63,935 ) Decrease (increase) in other assets 31,155 (94,535 ) (50,359 ) Increase in other liabilities 211 28,529 50,888 (Decrease) increase in accounts payable (37,017 ) 20,423 31,230 (Decrease) increase in accrued liabilities (32,092 ) 75,102 98,185 Net cash provided by operating activities 809,152 923,361 781,169 CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES Acquisition of distributor (24,400 )   Purchases of property and equipment (137,029 ) (174,720 ) (140,600 ) Proceeds from dispositions of property and equipment   33 Purchase of corporate headquarters building (103,300 )   Purchases of investments  (162,300 ) (920,999 ) Proceeds from sales and maturities of investments  782,460 685,789 Net cash (used in) provided by investing activities (264,729 ) 445,440 (375,777 ) CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES Repurchase of common stock (453,786 ) (1,336,599 ) (149,999 ) Repayment of long-term debt (285 ) (235 ) (170 ) Borrowings on revolving credit facility, net 7,496   Proceeds from share-based awards, net 7,363 83,320 112,119 Excess tax (deficit) benefit from share-based compensation (871 ) 23,253 65,100 Adjustment to excess tax benefit from share-based compensation   (16,658 ) Net cash (used in) provided by financing activities (440,083 ) (1,230,261 ) 10,392 Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (2,883 ) 3,409 (2,216 ) Increase in cash and cash equivalents 101,457 141,949 413,568 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 698,905 556,956 143,388 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year $ 800,362 $ 698,905 $ 556,956 Supplemental information: Cash paid for income taxes $ 336,091 $ 463,687 $ 370,189 Cash paid for interest $ 2,014 $ 1,171 $ 1,099 Noncash investing activityproperty and equipment obligations $ 20,520 $ 44,260 $ 31,537 Noncash financing activitymortgage debt assumed $ 23,000 $  $  See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
42 TABLE OF CONTENTS COACH, INC.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (dollars and shares in thousands, except per share data) 1. Nature of Operations Coach, Inc. (the Company) designs and markets high-quality, modern American classic accessories. The Companys primary product offerings, manufactured by third-party suppliers, include handbags, womens and mens accessories, footwear, jewelry, wearables, business cases, sunwear, travel bags, fragrance and watches. Coachs products are sold through the Direct-to-Consumer segment, which includes Company-operated stores in North America, Japan, Hong Kong, Macau and mainland China, the Internet and the Coach catalog, and through the Indirect segment, which includes sales to wholesale customers and distributors in over 20 countries, including the United States, and royalties earned on licensed products.
2. Significant Accounting Policies Fiscal Year The Companys fiscal year ends on the Saturday closest to June 30. Unless otherwise stated, references to years in the financial statements relate to fiscal years. The fiscal years ended June 27, 2009 (fiscal 2009), June 28, 2008 (fiscal 2008) and June 30, 2007 (fiscal 2007) were each 52-week periods.
Use of Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements as well as the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. The level of uncertainty in estimates and assumptions increases with the length of time until the underlying transactions are completed. Actual results could differ from estimates in amounts that may be material to the financial statements.
Principles of Consolidation The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and all 100% owned subsidiaries. All significant intercompany transactions and balances are eliminated in consolidation.
Cash and Cash Equivalents Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash balances and highly liquid investments with a maturity of three months or less at the date of purchase.
Investments Investments consist of U.S. government and agency debt securities as well as municipal government and corporate debt securities. These investments are classified as available-for-sale and recorded at fair value, with unrealized gains and losses recorded in other comprehensive income. Dividend and interest income are recognized when earned.
Concentration of Credit Risk Financial instruments that potentially expose Coach to concentration of credit risk consist primarily of cash investments and accounts receivable. The Company places its cash investments with high-credit quality financial institutions and currently invests primarily in U.S. government and agency debt securities, municipal government and corporate debt securities, and money market funds placed with major banks and financial institutions. Accounts receivable is generally diversified due to the number of entities comprising Coachs customer base and their dispersion across many geographical regions. The Company believes no significant concentration of credit risk exists with respect to these cash investments and accounts receivable.
43 TABLE OF CONTENTS COACH, INC.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (dollars and shares in thousands, except per share data) 2. Significant Accounting Policies (continued) Inventories Inventories consist primarily of finished goods and are valued at the lower of cost (determined by the first-in, first-out method) or market. Inventory costs include material, conversion costs, freight and duties. Prior to fiscal 2009, the Company valued the cost of Coach Japans inventory using the last-in, first-out method. See Note 3 for further information.
Property and Equipment Property and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation. Depreciation is calculated on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the assets. Buildings are depreciated over 40 years. Machinery and equipment are depreciated over lives of five to seven years and furniture and fixtures are depreciated over lives of three to five years. Leasehold improvements are amortized over the shorter of their estimated useful lives or the related lease terms. Maintenance and repair costs are charged to earnings as incurred while expenditures for major renewals and improvements are capitalized. Upon the disposition of property and equipment, the cost and related accumulated depreciation are removed from the accounts.
Operating Leases The Companys leases for office space, retail stores and the distribution facility are accounted for as operating leases. The majority of the Companys lease agreements provide for tenant improvement allowances, rent escalation clauses and/or contingent rent provisions. Tenant improvement allowances are recorded as a deferred lease credit on the balance sheet and amortized over the lease term, which is consistent with the amortization period for the constructed assets. Rent expense is recorded when the Company takes possession of a store to begin its buildout, which generally occurs before the stated commencement of the lease term and is approximately 60 to 90 days prior to the opening of the store.
Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets Goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets are evaluated for impairment annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the asset might be impaired. The Company performed an impairment evaluation in fiscal 2009, fiscal 2008 and fiscal 2007 and concluded that there was no impairment of its goodwill or indefinite life intangible assets.
Valuation of Long-Lived Assets Long - lived assets, such as property and equipment, are evaluated for impairment annually to determine if the carrying value of the assets is recoverable. The evaluation is based on a review of forecasted operating cash flows and the profitability of the related business. An impairment loss is recognized if the forecasted cash flows are less than the carrying amount of the asset. The Company performed an impairment evaluation in fiscal 2009, fiscal 2008 and fiscal 2007 and concluded that there was no impairment of its long-lived assets for stores expected to remain open. The Company recorded an impairment charge of $1.5 million in fiscal 2009 related to the closure of three underperforming stores.
Stock Repurchase and Retirement The Company accounts for stock repurchases and retirements by allocating the repurchase price to common stock, additional paid-in-capital and retained earnings. The repurchase price allocation is based upon the equity contribution associated with historical issuances, beginning with the earliest issuance.
44 TABLE OF CONTENTS COACH, INC.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (dollars and shares in thousands, except per share data) 2. Significant Accounting Policies (continued) Revenue Recognition Sales are recognized at the point of sale, which occurs when merchandise is sold in an over-the-counter consumer transaction or, for the wholesale channels, upon shipment of merchandise, when title passes to the customer. Revenue associated with gift cards is recognized upon redemption. The Company estimates the amount of gift cards that will not be redeemed and records such amounts as revenue over the period of the performance obligation. Allowances for estimated uncollectible accounts, discounts and returns are provided when sales are recorded. Royalty revenues are earned through license agreements with manufacturers of other consumer products that incorporate the Coach brand. Revenue earned under these contracts is recognized based upon reported sales from the licensee. Taxes collected from customers and remitted to governmental authorities are recorded on a net basis and therefore are excluded from revenue.
Preopening Costs Costs associated with the opening of new stores are expensed in the period incurred.
Advertising Advertising costs include expenses related to direct marketing activities, such as catalogs, as well as media and production costs. In fiscal 2009, fiscal 2008 and fiscal 2007, advertising expenses totaled $50,078, $57,380 and $47,287, respectively, and are included in selling, general and administrative expenses. Advertising costs are expensed when the advertising first appears.
Share-Based Compensation The Company measures the cost of employee services received in exchange for an award of equity instruments based on the grant-date fair value of the award. The grant-date fair value of the award is recognized as compensation expense over the vesting period.
Shipping and Handling Shipping and handling costs incurred were $26,142, $28,433 and $28,142 in fiscal 2009, fiscal 2008 and fiscal 2007, respectively, and are included in selling, general and administrative expenses.
Income Taxes The Company accounts for income taxes in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standard (SFAS) 109, Accounting for Income Taxes . Under SFAS 109, a deferred tax liability or asset is recognized for the estimated future tax consequences of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and their respective tax bases. In evaluating the unrecognized tax benefits associated with the Companys various tax filing positions, management records these positions using a more-likely-than-not recognition threshold for income tax positions taken or expected to be taken in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Interpretation (FIN) 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxesan interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109 . The Company classifies interest on uncertain tax positions in interest expense.
Fair Value of Financial Instruments The Company has evaluated its Industrial Revenue Bond and mortgage and believes, based on the interest rates, related terms and maturities, that the fair values of such instruments approximate their carrying amounts. As of June 27, 2009 and June 28, 2008, the carrying values of cash and cash equivalents, trade accounts receivable, accounts payable and accrued liabilities approximated their values due to the short-term maturities of these accounts. See Note 7, Fair Value Measurements , for the fair values of the Companys investments as of June 27, 2009 and June 28, 2008.
45 TABLE OF CONTENTS COACH, INC.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (dollars and shares in thousands, except per share data) 2. Significant Accounting Policies (continued) Coach Japan enters into foreign currency contracts that hedge certain U.S. dollar-denominated inventory purchases and its fixed rate intercompany loan. These contracts qualify for hedge accounting and have been designated as cash flow hedges. The fair value of these contracts is recorded in other comprehensive income and recognized in earnings in the period in which the hedged item is also recognized in earnings. The fair value of the foreign currency derivative is based on its market value. Considerable judgment is required of management in developing estimates of fair value. The use of different market assumptions or methodologies could affect the estimated fair value.
Foreign Currency The functional currency of the Companys foreign operations is generally the applicable local currency. Assets and liabilities are translated into U.S. dollars using the current exchange rates in effect at the balance sheet date, while revenues and expenses are translated at the weighted-average exchange rates for the period. The resulting translation adjustments are recorded as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) within stockholders equity.
Net Income Per Share Basic net income per share is calculated by dividing net income by the weighted-average number of shares outstanding during the period. Diluted net income per share is calculated similarly but includes potential dilution from the exercise of stock options and vesting of stock awards.
Recent Accounting Pronouncements In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS 157, Fair Value Measurements . SFAS 157 defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value in generally accepted accounting principles and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. The Company adopted the provisions of SFAS 157 related to financial assets and liabilities in the first quarter of fiscal 2009. The adoption of these provisions did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. The remaining provisions of SFAS 157 are effective for the first quarter of the fiscal 2010. For further information about the fair value measurements of our financial assets and liabilities see Note 7.
In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS 141 (revised 2007), Business Combinations . Under SFAS 141(R), an acquiring entity will be required to recognize all the assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a transaction at the acquisition-date fair value with limited exceptions. SFAS 141(R) will change the accounting treatment for certain specific acquisition-related items, including expensing acquisition-related costs as incurred, valuing noncontrolling interests (minority interests) at fair value at the acquisition date, and expensing restructuring costs associated with an acquired business. SFAS 141(R) also includes expanded disclosure requirements. SFAS 141(R) is to be applied prospectively to business combinations for which the acquisition date is on or after June 28, 2009. The Company does not expect the adoption of SFAS 141(R) to have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements.
In March 2008, the FASB issued SFAS 161, Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activitiesan amendment of FASB Statement No. 133.
SFAS 161 requires qualitative disclosures about objectives and strategies for using derivatives, quantitative disclosures about fair value amounts of and gains and losses on derivative instruments, and disclosures about credit-risk-related contingent features in derivative agreements. This statement was effective for Coachs financial statements beginning with the interim period ended on March 28, 2009. SFAS 161 did not have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements. See Note 10 for further information.
In October 2008, the FASB issued Staff Position (FSP) No. SFAS 157-3, Determining the Fair Value of a Financial Asset When the Market for That Asset Is Not Active which amends SFAS 157 by incorporating an example to illustrate key considerations in determining the fair value of a financial asset in an inactive 46 TABLE OF CONTENTS COACH, INC.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (dollars and shares in thousands, except per share data) 2. Significant Accounting Policies (continued) market. FSP 157-3 was effective on October 10, 2008. The Company has adopted the provisions of SFAS 157 and incorporated the considerations of this FSP in determining the fair value of its financial assets. FSP 157-3 did not have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements.
In December 2008, the FASB issued FSP No. SFAS 132(R)-1, Employers Disclosures about Postretirement Benefit Plan Assets which provides guidance on employers disclosures about plan assets of a defined benefit pension or other postretirement plan. FSP 132(R)-1 is effective for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2009. The Company does not expect the application of this FSP to have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements.
In April 2009, the FASB issued FSP No. SFAS 157-4, Determining Fair Value When the Volume and Level of Activity for the Asset or Liability Have Significantly Decreased and Identifying Transactions That Are Not Orderly which amends SFAS 157 by incorporating a two-step process to determine whether a market is not active and a transaction is not distressed. The Company adopted FSP 157-4 for the annual period ending June 27, 2009. FSP 157-4 did not have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements.
In April 2009, the FASB issued FSP No. SFAS 107-1 and APB 28-1, Interim Disclosures about Fair Value of Financial Statements which amends the interim disclosure requirements in scope for FAS 107, Disclosures about Fair Value of Financial Instruments . The Company adopted FSP 107-1 and 28-1 for the annual period ending June 27, 2009. FSP 107-1 and 28-1 did not have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements.
In June 2009, the FASB issued SFAS 168, The FASB Accounting Standards Codification and the Hierarchy of Generally Accepted Accounting Principlesa replacement of FASB Statement No. 162.
SFAS 168 states that the FASB Accounting Standards Codification will become the source of authoritative U.S. GAAP recognized by the FASB. Once effective, the Codifications content will carry the same level of authority, effectively superseding SFAS 162. The GAAP hierarchy will be modified to include only two levels of GAAP: authoritative and nonauthoritative. This statement will be effective for Coachs financial statements beginning with the interim period ending September 26, 2009. The Company does not expect the application of SFAS 168 to have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements.
3. Change in Accounting Principle Coachs inventories consist primarily of finished goods and are valued at the lower of cost or market. On June 29, 2008, the Company changed its method of accounting for inventories in Japan from determining cost using the last-in, first-out (LIFO) method to determining cost using the first-in, first-out (FIFO) method. All of the Companys other operations will continue to be valued at the lower of cost, determined by the FIFO method, or market. The Company believes this change is preferable as it provides uniformity across the Companys operations with respect to the method for inventory accounting and better reflects the current value of inventories on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
The change in accounting method from LIFO to FIFO for inventories in Japan was completed in accordance with SFAS 154, Accounting Changes and Error Corrections . Accordingly, the change in accounting principle has been applied retrospectively by adjusting the financial statement amounts for the prior periods presented to reflect the value of Japan inventories on a FIFO basis. The cumulative effect of this change in accounting principle was a $22,827 reduction of retained earnings and a $633 reduction to accumulated other comprehensive income as of July 1, 2006. There was no impact to the income statement in the current or historical periods presented herein because there were no material differences between the LIFO and FIFO methods during those periods.
47 TABLE OF CONTENTS COACH, INC.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (dollars and shares in thousands, except per share data) 3. Change in Accounting Principle (continued) The following table details the retrospective application impact on previously reported amounts: At June 28, 2008 As Previously Reported Effect of Accounting Principle Change Adjusted Inventories $ 345,493 $ (27,003 ) $ 318,490 Deferred income taxescurrent asset 69,557 512 70,069 Deferred income taxesliability 26,417 (1,046 ) 25,371 Retained earnings 375,949 (22,827 ) 353,122 Accumulated other comprehensive income 21,463 (2,618 ) 18,845 At June 30, 2007 Inventories $ 291,192 $ (23,413 ) $ 267,779 Deferred income taxescurrent asset 68,305 512 68,817 Deferred income taxesliability 36,448 (1,046 ) 35,402 Retained earnings 940,757 (22,827 ) 917,930 Accumulated other comprehensive income (12,792 ) 972 (11,820 ) Year Ended June 28, 2008 Translation adjustments $ 27,963 $ (3,590 ) $ 24,373 Year Ended June 30, 2007 Translation adjustments $ (9,944 ) $ 1,605 $ (8,339 ) The following table shows the impact of the accounting principle change on reported balances at June 27, 2009: At June 27, 2009 Without Effect of Accounting Principle Change Effect of Accounting Principle Change As Reported Inventories $ 356,422 $ (30,274 ) $ 326,148 Deferred income taxescurrent asset 48,964 512 49,476 Deferred income taxesliability 1,046 (1,046 )  Retained earnings 522,778 (22,827 ) 499,951 Accumulated other comprehensive loss 9,740 (5,889 ) 3,851 4. Acquisitions On September 1, 2008, Coach acquired 100% of its domestic retail businesses in Hong Kong and Macau and on April 1, 2009, acquired 100% of its domestic retail business in mainland China from the former distributor, the ImagineX group. The results of the acquired businesses have been included in the consolidated financial statements since September 1, 2008 and April 1, 2009, respectively, within the Direct-to-Consumer segment. These acquisitions will provide the Company with greater control over the brand in Hong Kong, Macau and mainland China, enabling Coach to raise brand awareness and aggressively grow market share with the Chinese consumer.
48 TABLE OF CONTENTS COACH, INC.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (dollars and shares in thousands, except per share data) 4. Acquisitions (continued) The aggregate purchase price of the Hong Kong, Macau and mainland China businesses was $25,600, of which $24,400 was paid during fiscal 2009. The remaining $1,200 will be paid during fiscal 2010. The following table summarizes the fair values of the assets acquired at the date of acquisition: Assets Acquired Fair Value of Hong Kong and Macau (1) Fair Value of Mainland China (2) Total Current assets $ 5,099 $ 4,868 $ 9,967 Fixed assets 3,555 3,525 7,080 Other assets 2,299  2,299 Goodwill 3,554 2,700 6,254 Total assets acquired $ 14,507 $ 11,093 $ 25,600 (1) Fair value as of the acquisition date of September 1, 2008 (2) Estimated fair value as of the acquisition date of April 1, 2009 Prior to these acquisitions, ImagineX operated eight retail and department store locations in Hong Kong, two retail locations in Macau, and 15 retail locations in mainland China. The strength of the going concern and the established locations supported a premium above the fair value of the individual assets acquired. Unaudited pro forma information related to these acquisitions is not included as the impact of these transactions is not material to the consolidated results of the Company.
5. Share-Based Compensation The Company maintains several share-based compensation plans which are more fully described below. The following table shows the total compensation cost charged against income for these plans and the related tax benefits recognized in the income statement: Fiscal Year Ended June 27, 2009 June 28, 2008 June 30, 2007 Share-based compensation expense $ 67,542 $ 66,979 $ 56,726 Income tax benefit related to share-based compensation expense 23,920 24,854 22,071 The fiscal 2007 amounts above include $486 of share-based compensation expense and $187 of related income tax benefit related to discontinued operations.
Coach Stock-Based Plans Coach maintains the 2000 Stock Incentive Plan, the 2000 Non-Employee Director Stock Plan and the 2004 Stock Incentive Plan to award stock options and shares to certain members of Coach management and the outside members of its Board of Directors. These plans were approved by Coachs stockholders. The exercise price of each stock option equals 100% of the market price of Coachs stock on the date of grant and generally has a maximum term of 10 years. Stock options and share awards that are granted as part of the annual compensation process generally vest ratably over three years. Other stock option and share awards, granted primarily for retention purposes, are subject to forfeiture until completion of the vesting period, which ranges from one to five years. The Company issues new shares upon the exercise of stock options, vesting of share units and employee stock purchase.
49 TABLE OF CONTENTS COACH, INC.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (dollars and shares in thousands, except per share data) 5. Share-Based Compensation (continued) For options granted under Coachs stock option plans prior to July 1, 2003, an active employee can receive a replacement stock option equal to the number of shares surrendered upon a stock-for-stock exercise. The exercise price of the replacement option equals 100% of the market value at the date of exercise of the original option and will remain exercisable for the remaining term of the original option. Replacement stock options generally vest six months from the grant date. Replacement stock options of 0, 16 and 1,462 were granted in fiscal 2009, fiscal 2008 and fiscal 2007, respectively.
Stock Options A summary of option activity under the Coach stock option plans as of June 27, 2009 and changes during the year then ended is as follows: Number of Options Outstanding Weighted- Average Exercise Price Weighted- Average Remaining Contractual Term (In Years) Aggregate Intrinsic Value Outstanding at June 28, 2008 28,655 $ 29.44 Granted 5,009 25.94 Exercised (772 ) 12.15 Forfeited or expired (1,605 ) 32.98 Outstanding at June 27, 2009 31,287 $ 29.12 5.9 $ 94,175 Vested or expected to vest at June 27, 2009 31,027 $ 29.09 5.8 $ 93,824 Exercisable at June 27, 2009 19,999 $ 27.78 4.7 $ 89,182 The fair value of each Coach option grant is estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option pricing model and the following weighted-average assumptions: Fiscal Year Ended June 27, 2009 June 28, 2008 June 30, 2007 Expected term (years) 3.0 2.6 2.2 Expected volatility 44.7 % 32.9 % 29.9 % Risk-free interest rate 2.7 % 4.2 % 4.9 % Dividend yield 0.0 %  %  % The expected term of options represents the period of time that the options granted are expected to be outstanding and is based on historical experience. Expected volatility is based on historical volatility of the Companys stock as well as the implied volatility from publicly traded options on Coachs stock. The risk free interest rate is based on the zero-coupon U.S. Treasury issue as of the date of the grant. Grants subsequent to the Companys Board of Directors approval to initiate a quarterly dividend included a dividend yield assumption based on Coachs annual expected dividend yield of $0.30 per share divided by the grant-date share price. As Coach did not pay dividends during fiscal 2008 or fiscal 2007, the dividend yield was 0%.
The weighted-average grant-date fair value of options granted during fiscal 2009, fiscal 2008 and fiscal 2007 was $8.36, $10.74 and $7.12, respectively. The total intrinsic value of options exercised during fiscal 2009, fiscal 2008 and fiscal 2007 was $11,495, $65,922 and $191,950, respectively. The total cash received from option exercises was $9,382, $89,356 and $112,119 in fiscal 2009, fiscal 2008 and fiscal 2007, respectively, and the actual tax benefit realized for the tax deductions from these option exercises was $4,427, $25,610 and $69,496, respectively.
50 TABLE OF CONTENTS COACH, INC.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (dollars and shares in thousands, except per share data) 5. Share-Based Compensation (continued) At June 27, 2009, $55,994 of total unrecognized compensation cost related to non-vested stock option awards is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 1.1 years.
Share Units The grant-date fair value of each Coach share unit is equal to the fair value of Coach stock at the grant date. The weighted-average grant-date fair value of shares granted during fiscal 2009, fiscal 2008 and fiscal 2007 was $24.62, $40.47 and $35.09, respectively. The following table summarizes information about non-vested shares as of and for the year ended June 27, 2009: Number of Non-Vested Shares Weighted- Average Grant-Date Fair Value Nonvested at June 28, 2008 1,588 $ 33.98 Granted 1,715 24.62 Vested (609 ) 27.38 Forfeited (111 ) 32.89 Nonvested at June 27, 2009 2,583 $ 29.36 The total fair value of shares vested during fiscal 2009, fiscal 2008 and fiscal 2007 was $15,859, $18,225 and $11,558, respectively. At June 27, 2009, $41,081 of total unrecognized compensation cost related to non-vested share awards is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 1.1 years.
The Company recorded an adjustment in the first quarter of fiscal 2007 to reduce additional paid-in-capital by $16,658, with a corresponding increase to current liabilities, due to an excess tax benefit from share-based compensation overstatement in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006. This immaterial adjustment is reflected within the cash flows from financing activities of the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows.
Employee Stock Purchase Plan Under the Employee Stock Purchase Plan, full-time Coach employees are permitted to purchase a limited number of Coach common shares at 85% of market value. Under this plan, Coach sold 268, 155 and 159 new shares to employees in fiscal 2009, fiscal 2008 and fiscal 2007, respectively. Compensation expense is calculated for the fair value of employees purchase rights using the Black-Scholes model and the following weighted-average assumptions: Fiscal Year Ended June 27, 2009 June 28, 2008 June 30, 2007 Expected term (years) 0.5 0.5 0.5 Expected volatility 64.7 % 28.4 % 30.1 % Risk-free interest rate 1.1 % 4.1 % 5.1 % Dividend yield  %  %  % The weighted-average fair value of the purchase rights granted during fiscal 2009, fiscal 2008 and fiscal 2007 was $8.42, $10.26 and $8.72, respectively.
51 TABLE OF CONTENTS COACH, INC.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (dollars and shares in thousands, except per share data) 5. Share-Based Compensation (continued) Deferred Compensation Under the Coach, Inc. Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors, Coachs outside directors may defer their directors fees. Amounts deferred under these plans may, at the participants election, be either represented by deferred stock units, which represent the right to receive shares of Coach common stock on the distribution date elected by the participant, or placed in an interest-bearing account to be paid on such distribution date. The amounts accrued under these plans at June 27, 2009 and June 28, 2008 were $2,480 and $2,288, respectively, and are included within total liabilities in the consolidated balance sheets.
6. Leases Coach leases certain office, distribution and retail facilities. The lease agreements, which expire at various dates through 2028, are subject, in some cases, to renewal options and provide for the payment of taxes, insurance and maintenance. Certain leases contain escalation clauses resulting from the pass-through of increases in operating costs, property taxes and the effect on costs from changes in consumer price indices. Certain rentals are also contingent upon factors such as sales.
Rent-free periods and scheduled rent increases are recorded as components of rent expense on a straight-line basis over the related terms of such leases. Contingent rentals are recognized when the achievement of the target (i.e., sales levels), which triggers the related payment, is considered probable. Rent expense for the Companys operating leases consisted of the following: Fiscal Year Ended June 27, 2009 June 28, 2008 June 30, 2007 Minimum rentals $ 107,272 $ 92,675 $ 83,006 Contingent rentals 43,995 40,294 24,452 Total rent expense $ 151,267 $ 132,969 $ 107,458 Future minimum rental payments under noncancelable operating leases are as follows: Fiscal Year Amount 2010 $ 127,301 2011 123,933 2012 114,422 2013 103,867 2014 89,964 Subsequent to 2014 317,884 Total minimum future rental payments $ 877,371 Certain operating leases provide for renewal for periods of five to ten years at their fair rental value at the time of renewal. In the normal course of business, operating leases are generally renewed or replaced by new leases.
52 TABLE OF CONTENTS COACH, INC.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (dollars and shares in thousands, except per share data) 7. Fair Value Measurements In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS 157, Fair Value Measurements . The Company adopted the provisions of the statement related to financial assets and liabilities in the first quarter of fiscal 2009. SFAS 157 defines and establishes a framework for measuring fair value and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. In accordance with SFAS 157, the Company categorized its financial assets and liabilities, based on the priority of the inputs to the valuation technique, into a three-level fair value hierarchy as set forth below. The three levels of the hierarchy are defined as follows: Level 1Unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. Coach currently does not have any Level 1 financial assets or liabilities.
Level 2Observable inputs other than quoted prices included in Level 1. Level 2 inputs include quoted prices for identical assets or liabilities in non-active markets, quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities in active markets and inputs other than quoted prices that are observable for substantially the full term of the asset or liability.
Level 3Unobservable inputs reflecting managements own assumptions about the input used in pricing the asset or liability.
The following table shows the fair value measurements of the Companys SFAS 157 financial assets and liabilities at June 27, 2009: Level 2 Level 3 Assets: Long-term investmentauction rate security (a) $  $ 6,000 Total $  $ 6,000 Liabilities: Derivative liabilitieszero-cost collar options (b) $ 943 $  Derivative liabilitiescross-currency swap (c)  36,118 Total $ 943 $ 36,118 (a) The fair value of the security is determined using a model that takes into consideration the financial conditions of the issuer and the bond insurer, current market conditions and the value of the collateral bonds.
(b) The Company enters into zero-cost collar options to manage its exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations as a result of Coach Japans U.S. dollar-denominated inventory purchases. The fair value of these cash flow hedges is primarily based on the forward curves of the specific indices upon which settlement is based and includes an adjustment for counterparty or the Companys credit risk.
(c) The Company is a party to a cross-currency swap transaction in order to manage its exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations as a result of Coach Japans U.S. dollar-denominated fixed rate intercompany loan. The fair value of this cash flow hedge is primarily based on the forward curves of the specific indices upon which settlement is based and includes an adjustment for the Companys credit risk.
As of June 27, 2009 and June 28, 2008, the Companys investments included an auction rate security (ARS), classified as a long-term investment as the auctions for this security have been unsuccessful. During fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2008, the Company recorded impairment charges of $2,000 and $700, respectively, as the fair value of the ARS was deemed to be other-than-temporarily impaired. There were no realized gains or losses recorded in fiscal 2007. As of June 27, 2009 and June 28, 2008, there were no unrealized gains or losses on the Companys investments. The underlying investments of the ARS are scheduled to mature in 2035. This auction rate security is currently rated A, an investment grade rating afforded by credit rating agencies. We have determined that the significant majority of the inputs used to value this security fall within 53 TABLE OF CONTENTS COACH, INC.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (dollars and shares in thousands, except per share data) 7. Fair Value Measurements (continued) Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy as the inputs are based on unobservable estimates. The table below presents the changes in the fair value of the auction rate security during fiscal 2009: Auction Rate Security Balance at June 28, 2008 $ 8,000 Unrealized other-than-temporary loss, recognized in selling, general and administrative expenses (2,000 ) Balance at June 27, 2009 $ 6,000 On April 9, 2009, the FASB issued FSP No. SFAS 115-2 and SFAS 124-2, Recognition and Presentation of Other-Than-Temporary Impairments which amends the other-than-temporary impairment indicators to (a) management has no intent to sell the security and (b) it is more likely than not management will not have to sell the security before recovery. The Company adopted FSP 115-2 and 124-2 for the annual period ending June 27, 2009 and as of the interim period beginning March 29, 2009. As a result of the adoption, the Company recorded a cumulative effect adjustment of $1,072 to retained earnings with a corresponding adjustment to accumulated other comprehensive income. This adjustment represents the non-credit portion of the impairment as of the date of adoption.
As of June 27, 2009 and June 28, 2008, the fair value of the Companys cross-currency swap derivative was included within accrued liabilities. The Company uses a management model which includes a combination of observable inputs, such as tenure of the agreement and notional amount and unobservable inputs, such as the Companys credit rating. The table below presents the changes in the fair value of the cross-currency swap during fiscal 2009: Cross-Currency Swap Balance at beginning of period $ 5,540 Unrealized loss, recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income 30,578 Balance at end of period $ 36,118 8. Debt Revolving Credit Facilities The Company maintains a $100,000 revolving credit facility with certain lenders and Bank of America, N.A. as the primary lender and administrative agent (the Bank of America facility). The facility expires on July 26, 2012. At Coachs request, the Bank of America facility can be expanded to $200,000 and can also be extended for two additional one-year periods. Under the Bank of America facility, Coach pays a commitment fee of 6 to 12.5 basis points on any unused amounts and interest of LIBOR plus 20 to 55 basis points on any outstanding borrowings. At June 27, 2009, the commitment fee was 7 basis points and the LIBOR margin was 30 basis points.
The Bank of America facility is available for seasonal working capital requirements or general corporate purposes and may be prepaid without penalty or premium. During fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2008 there were no borrowings under the Bank of America facility. Accordingly, as of June 27, 2009 and June 28, 2008, there were no outstanding borrowings under the Bank of America facility. The Companys borrowing capacity as of June 27, 2009 was $87,045, due to outstanding letters of credit.
The Bank of America facility contains various covenants and customary events of default. Coach has been in compliance with all covenants since its inception.
54 TABLE OF CONTENTS COACH, INC.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (dollars and shares in thousands, except per share data) 8. Debt (continued) To provide funding for working capital and general corporate purposes, Coach Japan has available credit facilities with several Japanese financial institutions. These facilities allow a maximum borrowing of 7.6 billion yen, or approximately $79,865, at June 27, 2009. Interest is based on the Tokyo Interbank rate plus a margin of 30 to 100 basis points.
During fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2008, the peak borrowings under the Japanese credit facilities were $14,404 and $26,790, respectively. As of June 27, 2009 and June 28, 2008, there were no outstanding borrowings under the Japanese credit facilities.
During fiscal 2009, Coach Shanghai Limited entered into a credit facility that allows a maximum borrowing of $10,000 at June 27, 2009. This facility is available to provide funding for working capital and general corporate purposes. Coach Shanghai pays a commitment fee of 10 basis points on the daily unused amount if the daily unused amount exceeds 60% of the total facility. Interest is based on the Peoples Bank of China rate plus 2%, per annum. During fiscal 2009, the peak borrowings under this credit facility were $7,496. At June 27, 2009, there was $7,496 of outstanding borrowings under this facility.
Long-Term Debt Coach is party to an Industrial Revenue Bond related to its Jacksonville, Florida facility. This loan bears interest at 4.5%. Principal and interest payments are made semi-annually, with the final payment due in August 2014. As of June 27, 2009 and June 28, 2008, the remaining balance on the loan was $2,580 and $2,865, respectively. During fiscal 2009, Coach assumed a mortgage in connection with the purchase of its corporate headquarters building in New York City. This mortgage bears interest at 4.68%. Interest payments are made monthly and principal payments begin in July 2009, with the final payment of $21,555 due in June 2013. As of June 27, 2009, the remaining balance on the mortgage was $23,000. Future principal payments under these obligations are as follows: Fiscal Year Amount 2010 $ 508 2011 746 2012 795 2013 22,375 2014 500 Subsequent to 2014 656 Total $ 25,580 55 TABLE OF CONTENTS COACH, INC.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (dollars and shares in thousands, except per share data) 9. Commitments and Contingencies At June 27, 2009 and June 28, 2008, the Company had letters of credit available of $275,000 and $225,000, of which $101,940 and $111,528, respectively, were outstanding. The letters of credit, which expire at various dates through 2012, primarily collateralize the Companys obligation to third parties for the purchase of inventory.
Coach is a party to employment agreements with certain key executives which provide for compensation and other benefits. The agreements also provide for severance payments under certain circumstances. The Companys employment agreements and the respective expiration dates are as follows: Executive Title Expiration Date Lew Frankfort Chairman and Chief Executive Officer August 2011 Reed Krakoff President and Executive Creative Director June 2014 Michael Tucci President, North America Retail Division June 2013 Michael F. Devine, III Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer June 2010 In addition to the employment agreements described above, other contractual cash obligations as of June 27, 2009 and June 28, 2008 included $105,114 and $125,176, respectively, related to inventory purchase obligations and $2,370 and $3,400, respectively, related to capital expenditure purchase obligations.
In the ordinary course of business, Coach is a party to several pending legal proceedings and claims. Although the outcome of such items cannot be determined with certainty, Coachs general counsel and management are of the opinion that the final outcome will not have a material effect on Coachs cash flow, results of operations or financial position.
10. Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities Substantially all purchases and sales involving international parties are denominated in U.S. dollars, which limits the Companys exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. However, the Company is exposed to market risk from foreign currency exchange risk related to Coach Japans U.S. dollar-denominated inventory purchases and its $231,000 U.S. dollar-denominated fixed rate intercompany loan. Coach uses derivative financial instruments to manage these risks. These derivative transactions are in accordance with the Companys risk management policies. Coach does not enter into derivative transactions for speculative or trading purposes.
Coach Japan enters into certain foreign currency derivative contracts, primarily zero-cost collar options, to manage the exchange rate risk related to its inventory purchases. As of June 27, 2009 and June 28, 2008, $32,041 and $233,873 of foreign currency forward contracts were outstanding. These contracts have durations no greater than 12 months. To manage the exchange rate risk related to its intercompany loan, Coach Japan entered into a cross currency swap transaction on July 1, 2005. The terms of the cross currency swap transaction include an exchange of a U.S. dollar fixed interest rate for a yen fixed interest rate and an exchange of yen and U.S. dollar based principals when the loan matures in 2010.
SFAS No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities requires companies to recognize all derivative instruments as either assets or liabilities at fair value in the balance sheet. In accordance with SFAS 133, the derivative instruments are designated as cash flow hedges. The effective portion of gains or losses on the derivative instruments are reported as a component of other comprehensive income and reclassified into earnings in the same periods during which the hedged transaction affects earnings. Gains and losses on the derivatives representing hedge ineffectiveness are recognized in current earnings. Cash flows on derivatives are included within net cash provided by operating activities.
56 TABLE OF CONTENTS COACH, INC.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (dollars and shares in thousands, except per share data) 10. Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities (continued) The following tables provide information related to the Companys derivatives: Derivatives Designated as Hedging Instruments Under Statement 133 Balance Sheet Classification Fair Value At June 27, 2009 At June 28, 2008 Foreign exchange contracts Other Current Assets $  $ 7,906 Total derivative assets $  $ 7,906 Foreign exchange contracts Accrued Liabilities $ 37,061 $ 5,540 Total derivative liabilities $ 37,061 $ 5,540 Amount of Gain or (Loss) Recognized in OCI on Derivatives (Effective Portion) Year Ended Derivatives in Statement 133 Cash Flow Hedging Relationships June 27, 2009 June 28, 2008 Foreign exchange contracts $ (10,193 ) $ 4,352 Total $ (10,193 ) $ 4,352 For fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2008, the amounts above are net of tax of $(7,123) and $2,986, respectively.
Amount of Gain or (Loss) Reclassified from Accumulated OCI into Income (Effective Portion) Year Ended Location of Gain or (Loss) Reclassified from Accumulated OCI into Income (Effective Portion) June 27, 2009 June 28, 2008 Cost of Sales $ (5,031 ) $ (2,411 ) Total $ (5,031 ) $ (2,411 ) During fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2008, there were no material gains or losses recognized in income due to hedge ineffectiveness.
Hedging activity affected accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income, net of tax, as follows: Year Ended June 27, 2009 June 28, 2008 Balance at beginning of period $ 6,943 $ 1,161 Net losses transferred to earnings 2,915 1,430 Change in fair value, net of tax (10,193 ) 4,352 Balance at end of period $ (335 ) $ 6,943 The Company expects that $3,244 of net derivative losses included in accumulated other comprehensive income at June 27, 2009 will be reclassified into earnings within the next 12 months. This amount will vary due to fluctuations in the yen exchange rate.
57 TABLE OF CONTENTS COACH, INC.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (dollars and shares in thousands, except per share data) 11. Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets The changes in the carrying amount of goodwill for the years ended June 27, 2009 and June 28, 2008 are as follows: Direct-to- Consumer Indirect Total Balance at June 30, 2007 $ 212,278 $ 1,516 $ 213,794 Foreign exchange impact 35,324  35,324 Balance at June 28, 2008 247,602 1,516 249,118 Acquisition of Hong Kong, Macau and Mainland China retail businesses 6,254  6,254 Foreign exchange impact 28,015  28,015 Balance at June 27, 2009 $ 281,871 $ 1,516 $ 283,387 At June 27, 2009 and June 28, 2008, intangible assets not subject to amortization were $9,788 and consisted of trademarks.
12. Income Taxes The provisions for income taxes computed by applying the U.S. statutory rate to income before taxes as reconciled to the actual provisions were: Fiscal Year Ended June 27, 2009 June 28, 2008 June 30, 2007 Amount Percentage Amount Percentage Amount Percentage Income before provision for income taxes and discontinued operations: United States $ 870,819 89.1 % $ 1,082,584 90.6 % $ 936,413 90.5 % Foreign 106,262 10.9 112,365 9.4 98,257 9.5 Total income before provision for income taxes and discontinued operations: $ 977,081 100.0 % $ 1,194,949 100.0 % $ 1,034,670 100.0 % Tax expense at U.S. statutory rate $ 341,978 35.0 % $ 418,232 35.0 % $ 362,135 35.0 % State taxes, net of federal benefit 35,065 3.6 43,787 3.7 38,910 3.8 Foreign tax rate differential (9,202 ) (0.9 ) (7,750 ) (0.6 ) (13,892 ) (1.3 ) Tax benefit, primarily due to settlements of tax return examinations (9,289 ) (1.0 ) (49,968 ) (4.2 )  0.0 Other, net (4,840 ) (0.5 ) 7,609 0.6 10,988 1.0 Taxes at effective worldwide rates $ 353,712 36.2 % $ 411,910 34.5 % $ 398,141 38.5 % 58 TABLE OF CONTENTS COACH, INC.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (dollars and shares in thousands, except per share data) 12. Income Taxes (continued) Current and deferred tax provisions (benefits) were: Fiscal Year Ended June 27, 2009 June 28, 2008 June 30, 2007 Current Deferred Current Deferred Current Deferred Federal $ 298,996 $ (5,646 ) $ 334,381 $ (21,391 ) $ 323,087 $ (5,352 ) Foreign (4,544 ) 14,788 25,624 5,931 16,025 4,227 State 45,600 4,518 68,812 (1,447 ) 56,745 3,409 Total current and deferred tax provisions (benefits) $ 340,052 $ 13,660 $ 428,817 $ (16,907 ) $ 395,857 $ 2,284 The components of deferred tax assets and liabilities at the respective year-ends were as follows: Fiscal 2009 Fiscal 2008 Share-based compensation $ 74,328 $ 66,590 Reserves not deductible until paid 74,159 62,697 Goodwill 22,923  Pensions and other employee benefits 15,623 19,069 Property and equipment 641 23,361 Net operating loss 26,430 20,202 Other 1,438 11,537 Gross deferred tax assets $ 215,542 $ 203,456 Prepaid expenses $ 5,860 $ 15,221 Equity adjustments  8,181 Goodwill  51,586 Other 1,114 2,424 Gross deferred tax liabilities $ 6,974 $ 77,412 Net deferred tax assets $ 208,568 $ 126,044 Consolidated Balance Sheets Classification Deferred income taxescurrent asset $ 49,476 $ 70,069 Deferred income taxesnoncurrent asset 159,092 81,346 Deferred income taxesnoncurrent liability  (25,371 ) Net amount recognized $ 208,568 $ 126,044 During fiscal 2009, the Company reorganized the ownership of its business in Japan. As a result of the reorganization, the Company recorded a non-current deferred tax asset of $103,170 which represents the tax effect in Japan of the basis difference related to an asset acquired from within the Coach group. The Company also recorded a deferred credit of $103,170 and a deferred expense of $17,715 which represents the tax effects of future tax deductions and the net taxes payable, respectively, on the transaction. The current and long-term portion of the deferred credit is included within accrued liabilities and other liabilities, respectively, and the deferred expense is included within other assets.
The Company adopted FIN 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxesan interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109 on July 1, 2007, the first day of fiscal 2008. FIN 48 prescribes a recognition threshold and measurement attribute for the financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position 59 TABLE OF CONTENTS COACH, INC.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (dollars and shares in thousands, except per share data) 12. Income Taxes (continued) taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. As a result, the Company recorded a non-cash cumulative transition charge of $48,797 as a reduction to the opening retained earnings balance.
Significant judgment is required in determining the worldwide provision for income taxes, and there are many transactions for which the ultimate tax outcome is uncertain. It is the Companys policy to establish provisions for taxes that may become payable in future years as a result of an examination by tax authorities. The Company establishes the provisions based upon managements assessment of exposure associated with uncertain tax positions. The provisions are analyzed periodically and adjustments are made as events occur that warrant adjustments to those provisions. All of these determinations are subject to the requirements of FIN 48.
A reconciliation of the beginning and ending gross amount of unrecognized tax benefits is as follows: Fiscal 2009 Fiscal 2008 Balance at beginning of fiscal year $ 131,185 $ 120,367 Gross increase due to tax positions related to prior periods 13,690 8,606 Gross decrease due to tax positions related to prior periods (48,602 ) (44,719 ) Gross increase due to tax positions related to current period 42,367 72,983 Gross decrease due to tax positions related to current period  (24,369 ) Decrease due to lapse of statutes of limitations (833 ) (1,683 ) Balance at end of fiscal year $ 137,807 $ 131,185 Of the $137,807 ending gross unrecognized tax benefit balance, $67,058 relates to items which, if recognized, would impact the effective tax rate. As of June 27, 2009 and June 28, 2008, gross interest and penalties payable was $25,960 and $18,640, which are included in other liabilities. During fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2008, the Company recognized interest and penalty expense of $5,611 and $(3,180), respectively, in the Consolidated Statements of Income.
The Company files income tax returns in the U.S. federal jurisdiction as well as various state and foreign jurisdictions. Fiscal years 2007 to present are open to examination in the federal jurisdiction, fiscal 2003 to present in significant state jurisdictions, and from fiscal 2003 to present in foreign jurisdictions.
Based on the number of tax years currently under audit by the relevant tax authorities, the Company anticipates that one or more of these audits may be finalized in the foreseeable future. However, based on the status of these examinations, and the protocol of finalizing audits by the relevant tax authorities, we can not reasonably estimate the impact of any amount of such changes in the next 12 months, if any, to previously recorded uncertain tax positions.
At June 27, 2009, the Company had net operating loss carryforwards in foreign tax jurisdictions of $62,854, which will expire beginning in fiscal years 2012 through fiscal year 2016.
The total amount of undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries as of June 27, 2009 was $363,725. It is the Companys intention to permanently reinvest undistributed earnings of its foreign subsidiaries and thereby indefinitely postpone their remittance. Accordingly, no provision has been made for foreign withholding taxes or United States income taxes which may become payable if undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries are paid as dividends.
13. Retirement Plans Defined Contribution Plan Coach maintains the Coach, Inc. Savings and Profit Sharing Plan, which is a defined contribution plan. Employees who meet certain eligibility requirements and are not part of a collective bargaining agreement 60 TABLE OF CONTENTS COACH, INC.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (dollars and shares in thousands, except per share data) 13. Retirement Plans (continued) may participate in this program. The annual expense incurred by Coach for this defined contribution plan was $12,511, $11,106 and $9,365 in fiscal 2009, fiscal 2008 and fiscal 2007, respectively.
Defined Benefit Plans Coach sponsors a non-contributory defined benefit plan, The Coach, Inc. Supplemental Pension Plan, (the U.S. Plan) for individuals who are part of collective bargaining arrangements in the U.S. The U.S. Plan provides benefits based on years of service. Coach Japan sponsors a defined benefit plan for individuals who meet certain eligibility requirements. This plan provides benefits based on employees years of service and earnings.
In the first quarter of fiscal 2009, the Company adopted the measurement provision of SFAS 158, Employers Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plansan amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106 and 132R , which requires an employer to measure defined benefit plan assets and obligations as of the date of the employers fiscal year-end statement of financial position. Previously, the Company had measured its defined benefit plan assets and obligations three months prior to the fiscal year-end. The impact of this change resulted in a non-cash charge to retained earnings of $183 and an increase to accumulated other comprehensive income of $22.
The following tables provide information about the Companys pension plans: Fiscal Year Ended June 27, 2009 June 28, 2008 Change in Benefit Obligation Benefit obligation at beginning of year $ 8,070 $ 7,818 Service cost 1,463 777 Interest cost 423 384 Actuarial (gain) loss 934 (792 ) Foreign exchange impact 363 281 Benefits paid (515 ) (398 ) Benefit obligation at end of year $ 10,738 $ 8,070 Change in Plan Assets Fair value of plan assets at beginning of year $ 5,667 $ 4,968 Actual return on plan assets (1,012 ) 166 Employer contributions 1,021 931 Benefits paid (515 ) (398 ) Fair value of plan assets at end of year $ 5,161 $ 5,667 Reconciliation of Funded status Funded status at end of year $ (5,577 ) $ (2,403 ) Contributions subsequent to measurement date  248 Net amount recognized $ (5,577 ) $ (2,155 ) Amounts recognized in the Consolidated Balance Sheets Other assets $  $ 76 Current liabilities (161 ) (72 ) Other liabilities (5,416 ) (2,159 ) Net amount recognized $ (5,577 ) $ (2,155) 61 TABLE OF CONTENTS COACH, INC.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (dollars and shares in thousands, except per share data) 13. Retirement Plans (continued) Fiscal Year Ended June 27, 2009 June 28, 2008 Amounts recognized in Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income consist of Net actuarial loss $ 3,899 $ 1,651 Accumulated benefit obligation $ 9,298 $ 7,345 Information for pension plans with an accumulated benefit obligation in excess of plan assets Projected benefit obligation $ 10,738 $ 8,070 Accumulated benefit obligation 9,298 7,345 Fair value of plan assets 5,161 5,667 Weighted-average assumptions used to determine benefit obligations Discount rate 4.73 % 5.37 % Rate of compensation increase 3.50 % 3.50 % Fiscal Year Ended June 27, 2009 June 28, 2008 June 30, 2007 Components of net periodic benefit cost Service cost $ 1,101 $ 777 $ 721 Interest cost 423 384 353 Expected return on plan assets (356 ) (314 ) (307 ) Amortization of net actuarial loss 147 263 217 Net periodic benefit cost $ 1,315 $ 1,110 $ 984 Weighted-average assumptions used to determine net periodic benefit cost Discount rate 5.37 % 5.02 % 5.42 % Expected long term return on plan assets 6.00 % 6.00 % 6.50 % Rate of compensation increase 3.50 % 2.60 % 3.00 % To develop the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets assumption, the Company considered the current level of expected returns on risk-free investments (primarily government bonds), the historical level of the risk premium associated with the other asset classes in which the portfolio is invested and the expectations for future returns of each asset class. The expected return for each asset class was then weighted based on the target asset allocation to develop the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets assumption for the portfolio. This resulted in the selection of the 6.0% assumption for the fiscal year ended June 27, 2009.
In the Companys U.S. Plan, funds are contributed to a trust in accordance with regulatory limits. The weighted-average asset allocations of the U.S. Plan, by asset category, as of the measurement dates, are as follows: Plan Assets Fiscal 2009 Fiscal 2008 Asset Category Equity securities 63.2 29.4 Fixed income 35.7 26.5 Cash equivalents 1.1 44.1 Total 100.0 % 100.0 % 62 TABLE OF CONTENTS COACH, INC.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (dollars and shares in thousands, except per share data) 13. Retirement Plans (continued) The goals of the investment program are to fully fund the obligation to pay retirement benefits in accordance with the Coach, Inc. Supplemental Pension Plan and to provide returns which, along with appropriate funding from Coach, maintain an asset/liability ratio that is in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations and assures timely payment of retirement benefits. The Plan does not directly invest in Coach stock. The target asset allocations for each major category of plan assets as of June 27, 2009 are as follows: Minimum Maximum Equity securities 45 % 65 % Fixed income 30 % 50 % Cash equivalents 2 % 10 % During fiscal 2010, approximately $331 of actuarial loss will be amortized from accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) into net periodic benefit cost.
Coach expects to contribute $283 to its U.S. Plan during the year ending July 3, 2010. Coach Japan expects to contribute $161 for benefit payments during the year ending July 3, 2010. The following benefit payments, which reflect expected future service, as appropriate, are expected to be paid: Fiscal Year Pension Benefits 2010 $542 2011 701 2012 809 2013 925 2014 1,036 20152019 6,450 14. Segment Information The Company operates its business in two reportable segments: Direct-to-Consumer and Indirect. The Companys reportable segments represent channels of distribution that offer similar merchandise, service and marketing strategies. Sales of Coach products through Company-operated stores in North America, Japan, Hong Kong, Macau and mainland China, the Internet and the Coach catalog constitute the Direct-to-Consumer segment. The Indirect segment includes sales to wholesale customers and distributors in over 20 countries, including the United States, and royalties earned on licensed products. In deciding how to allocate resources and assess performance, Coachs executive officers regularly evaluate the sales and operating income of these segments. Operating income is the gross margin of the segment less direct expenses of the segment. Unallocated corporate expenses include production variances, general marketing, administration and information systems, as well as distribution and consumer service expenses.
63 TABLE OF CONTENTS COACH, INC.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (dollars and shares in thousands, except per share data) 14. Segment Information (continued) In connection with the acquisitions of the retail businesses in Hong Kong, Macau and mainland China, the Company evaluated the composition of its reportable segments and concluded that sales in these regions should be included in the Direct-to-Consumer segment. Accordingly, prior year comparable sales and operating income have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation.
Direct-to- Consumer Indirect Corporate Unallocated Total Fiscal 2009 Net sales $ 2,726,891 $ 503,577 $  $ 3,230,468 Operating income (loss) 996,285 290,981 (315,353 ) 971,913 Income (loss) before provision for income taxes and discontinued operations 996,285 290,981 (310,185 ) 977,081 Depreciation and amortization expense 82,539 10,394 30,081 123,014 Total assets 1,311,341 86,235 1,166,760 2,564,336 Additions to long-lived assets 82,852 7,242 158,665 248,759 Fiscal 2008 Net sales $ 2,557,872 $ 622,885 $  $ 3,180,757 Operating income (loss) 1,094,321 399,401 (346,593 ) 1,147,129 Income (loss) before provision for income taxes and discontinued operations 1,094,321 399,401 (298,773 ) 1,194,949 Depreciation and amortization expense 67,485 9,704 23,515 100,704 Total assets 1,035,621 119,561 1,092,171 2,247,353 Additions to long-lived assets 120,288 24,252 43,123 187,663 Fiscal 2007 Net sales $ 2,108,984 $ 503,472 $  $ 2,612,456 Operating income (loss) 956,769 313,539 (276,911 ) 993,397 Income (loss) before provision for income taxes and discontinued operations 956,769 313,539 (235,638 ) 1,034,670 Depreciation and amortization expense 55,579 7,199 18,054 80,832 Total assets 891,008 114,423 1,421,180 2,426,611 Additions to long-lived assets 95,217 13,374 43,755 152,346 The following is a summary of the common costs not allocated in the determination of segment performance: Fiscal Year Ended June 27, 2009 June 28, 2008 June 30, 2007 Production variances $ 38,229 $ 26,659 $ 21,203 Advertising, marketing and design (150,714 ) (128,938 ) (108,760 ) Administration and information systems (153,387 ) (199,525 ) (138,552 ) Distribution and customer service (49,481 ) (44,789 ) (50,802 ) Total corporate unallocated $ (315,353 ) $ (346,593 ) $ (276,911 ) 64 TABLE OF CONTENTS COACH, INC.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (dollars and shares in thousands, except per share data) 14. Segment Information (continued) Geographic Area Information As of June 27, 2009, Coach operated 316 retail stores and 109 factory stores in the United States, 14 retail stores and two factory stores in Canada, 155 department store shop-in-shops, retail stores and factory stores in Japan and 28 department store shop-in-shops, retail stores and factory stores in Hong Kong, Macau and mainland China. Coach also operates distribution, product development and quality control locations in the United States, Hong Kong, China, South Korea and India. Geographic revenue information is based on the location of our customer. Geographic long-lived asset information is based on the physical location of the assets at the end of each period and includes property and equipment, net and other assets.
United States Japan Other International (1) Total Fiscal 2009 Net sales $ 2,318,602 $ 670,103 $ 241,763 $ 3,230,468 Long-lived assets 595,981 82,112 31,567 709,660 Fiscal 2008 Net sales $ 2,382,899 $ 605,523 $ 192,335 $ 3,180,757 Long-lived assets 452,616 76,863 10,404 539,883 Fiscal 2007 Net sales $ 1,996,129 $ 492,748 $ 123,579 $ 2,612,456 Long-lived assets 320,035 72,083 5,493 397,611 (1) Other International sales reflect shipments to third-party distributors, primarily in East Asia, and sales from Coach-operated stores in Hong Kong, Macau, mainland China and Canada.
15. Earnings Per Share The following is a reconciliation of the weighted-average shares outstanding and calculation of basic and diluted earnings per share: Fiscal Year Ended June 27, 2009 June 28, 2008 June 30, 2007 Income from continuing operations $ 623,369 $ 783,039 $ 636,529 Total weighted-average basic shares 323,714 355,731 369,661 Dilutive securities: Employee benefit and share award plans 293 608 980 Stock option programs 1,613 3,993 6,715 Total weighted-average diluted shares 325,620 360,332 377,356 Earnings from continuing operations per share: Basic $ 1.93 $ 2.20 $ 1.72 Diluted $ 1.91 $ 2.17 $ 1.69 65 TABLE OF CONTENTS COACH, INC.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (dollars and shares in thousands, except per share data) 15. Earnings Per Share (continued) At June 27, 2009, options to purchase 24,004 shares of common stock were outstanding but not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share, as these options exercise prices, ranging from $24.33 to $51.56, were greater than the average market price of the common shares.
At June 28, 2008, options to purchase 11,439 shares of common stock were outstanding but not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share, as these options exercise prices, ranging from $33.69 to $51.56, were greater than the average market price of the common shares.
At June 30, 2007, options to purchase 99 shares of common stock were outstanding but not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share, as these options exercise prices, ranging from $50.00 to $51.56, were greater than the average market price of the common shares.
16. Purchase of Corporate Headquarters Building On November 26, 2008, Coach purchased its corporate headquarters building at 516 West 34th Street in New York City for $126,300. As part of the purchase agreement, Coach paid $103,300 of cash and assumed $23,000 of the outstanding mortgage held by the sellers. The mortgage bears interest at 4.68% per annum and interest payments are made monthly. Principal payments begin in July 2009 with the final payment of $21,555 due in June 2013.
17. Discontinued Operations In March 2007, the Company exited its corporate accounts business in order to better control the location and image of the brand where Coach product is sold. Through the corporate accounts business, Coach sold products primarily to distributors for gift-giving and incentive programs. The results of the corporate accounts business, previously included in the Indirect segment, have been segregated from continuing operations and reported as discontinued operations in the Consolidated Statements of Income for all periods presented. As the Company uses a centralized approach to cash management, interest income was not allocated to the corporate accounts business. The following table summarizes results of the corporate accounts business: Fiscal Year Ended June 27, 2009 June 28, 2008 June 30, 2007 Net sales $  $ 102 $ 66,463 Income before provision for income taxes  31 44,483 Income from discontinued operations  16 27,136 The consolidated balance sheet at June 27, 2009 and June 28, 2008 includes approximately $1,500 of accrued liabilities related to the corporate accounts business. The Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows includes the corporate accounts business for all periods presented.
18. Stock Repurchase Program Purchases of Coachs common stock are made from time to time, subject to market conditions and at prevailing market prices, through open market purchases. Repurchased shares of common stock become authorized but unissued shares and may be issued in the future for general corporate and other purposes. The Company may terminate or limit the stock repurchase program at any time.
During fiscal 2009, fiscal 2008 and fiscal 2007, the Company repurchased and retired 20,159, 39,688 and 5,002 shares of common stock at an average cost of $22.51, $33.68 and $29.99 per share, respectively. As of June 27, 2009, Coach had $709,625 remaining in the stock repurchase program.
66 TABLE OF CONTENTS COACH, INC.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (dollars and shares in thousands, except per share data) 19. Supplemental Balance Sheet Information The components of certain balance sheet accounts are as follows: June 27, 2009 June 28, 2008 Property and equipment Land and building $ 154,873 $ 27,954 Machinery and equipment 27,053 16,116 Furniture and fixtures 311,916 271,957 Leasehold improvements 461,431 373,260 Construction in progress 22,726 65,486 Less: accumulated depreciation (385,017 ) (290,547 ) Total property and equipment, net $ 592,982 $ 464,226 Accrued liabilities Payroll and employee benefits $ 70,697 $ 104,122 Accrued rent 29,324 26,272 Capital expenditures 16,584 43,821 Dividends payable 23,845  Derivative liability 37,061 5,540 Operating expenses 171,108 136,175 Total accrued liabilities $ 348,619 $ 315,930 Other liabilities Deferred lease incentives $ 112,296 $ 108,612 Non-current tax liabilities 137,807 131,185 Tax-related deferred credit (Note 12) 80,817  Other 52,650 38,289 Total other liabilities $ 383,570 $ 278,086 Accumulated other comprehensive income Cumulative translation adjustments $ 7,597 $ 12,895 Cumulative effect of adoption of FSP FAS 115-2 and FAS 124-2, net of taxes of $628 and $0 (1,072 )  Unrealized (losses) gains on cash flow hedging derivatives, net of taxes of $(245) and $4,762 (335 ) 6,943 SFAS 158 adjustment and minimum pension liability, net of taxes of $1,559 and $657 (2,339 ) (993 ) Accumulated other comprehensive income $ 3,851 $ 18,845 20. Shareholder Rights Plan On May 3, 2001, Coach declared a poison pill dividend distribution of rights to buy additional common stock, to the holder of each outstanding share of Coachs common stock.
Subject to limited exceptions, these rights may be exercised if a person or group intentionally acquires 10% or more of the Companys common stock or announces a tender offer for 10% or more of the common stock on terms not approved by the Coach Board of Directors. In this event, each right would entitle the holder of each share of Coachs common stock to buy one additional common share of the Company at an exercise price far below the then-current market price. Subject to certain exceptions, Coachs Board of Directors will be entitled to redeem the rights at $0.0001 per right at any time before the close of business on 67 TABLE OF CONTENTS COACH, INC.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (dollars and shares in thousands, except per share data) 20. Shareholder Rights Plan (continued) the tenth day following either the public announcement that, or the date on which a majority of Coachs Board of Directors becomes aware that, a person has acquired 10% or more of the outstanding common stock. As of the end of fiscal 2009, there were no shareholders whose common stock holdings exceeded the 10% threshold established by the rights plan.
21. Subsequent Event Evaluation The Company adopted SFAS 165, Subsequent Events, for the annual period ended on June 27, 2009. SFAS 165 formalizes the recognition and nonrecognition of subsequent events and the disclosure requirements not addressed in other applicable generally accepted accounting guidance. This statement was effective for Coachs financial statements beginning with the annual period ended on June 27, 2009. The Company evaluated subsequent events through August 19, 2009, the date these financial statements were issued, for both conditions existing and not existing as of June 27, 2009 and concluded there were no subsequent events to recognize or disclose.
22. Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited) First Quarter Second Quarter Third Quarter Fourth Quarter Fiscal 2009 (1) (2) Net sales $ 752,529 $ 960,256 $ 739,939 $ 777,744 Gross profit 558,193 692,036 525,063 547,318 Income from continuing operations 145,811 216,906 114,859 145,793 Income from discontinued operations     Net income 145,811 216,906 114,859 145,793 Basic earnings per common share: Continuing operations 0.44 0.67 0.36 0.46 Discontinued operations     Net income 0.44 0.67 0.36 0.46 Diluted earnings per common share: Continuing operations 0.44 0.67 0.36 0.45 Discontinued operations     Net income 0.44 0.67 0.36 0.45 Fiscal 2008 (1) (3) Net sales $ 676,718 $ 978,017 $ 744,522 $ 781,500 Gross profit 518,221 737,272 558,318 593,292 Income from continuing operations 154,786 252,317 162,412 213,524 Income from discontinued operations 20  (4 )  Net income 154,806 252,317 162,408 213,524 Basic earnings per common share: Continuing operations 0.42 0.70 0.47 0.63 Discontinued operations 0.00  (0.00 )  Net income 0.42 0.70 0.47 0.63 Diluted earnings per common share: Continuing operations 0.41 0.69 0.46 0.62 Discontinued operations 0.00  (0.00 )  Net income 0.41 0.69 0.46 0.62 68 TABLE OF CONTENTS COACH, INC.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (dollars and shares in thousands, except per share data) 22. Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited) (continued) First Quarter Second Quarter Third Quarter Fourth Quarter Fiscal 2007 (1) Net sales $ 529,421 $ 805,603 $ 625,303 $ 652,129 Gross profit 406,005 621,295 486,410 509,276 Income from continuing operations 115,239 214,497 147,390 159,403 Income from discontinued operations 10,377 12,976 2,574 1,209 Net income 125,616 227,473 149,964 160,612 Basic earnings per common share: Continuing operations 0.31 0.58 0.40 0.43 Discontinued operations 0.03 0.04 0.01 0.00 Net income 0.34 0.62 0.41 0.43 Diluted earnings per common share: Continuing operations 0.31 0.57 0.39 0.42 Discontinued operations 0.03 0.03 0.01 0.00 Net income 0.34 0.61 0.40 0.42 (1) The sum of the quarterly earnings per share may not equal the full-year amount, as the computations of the weighted-average number of common basic and diluted shares outstanding for each quarter and the full year are performed independently.
(2) The reported results for the third quarter of fiscal 2009 include a net charge of $8,286, or $0.03 per share which affects the comparability of our reported results. Excluding this net charge, income from continuing operations and diluted earnings per share from continuing operations were $123,145 and $0.38 per share, respectively. The $8,286 net charge represents cost savings initiatives. The reported results for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009 include a net benefit of $9,527, or $0.03 per share. Excluding this net benefit, income from continuing operations and diluted earnings per share from continuing operations were $136,266 and $0.43 per share, respectively. The $9,527 net benefit represents a favorable settlement of a multi-year tax return examination and increased interest income reduced by a charitable contribution to the Coach Foundation.
(3) The reported results for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008 include a net benefit of $41,037, or $0.12 per share. Excluding this net benefit, income from continuing operations and diluted earnings per share from continuing operations were $172,487 and $0.50 per share, respectively. The net benefit represents a favorable settlement of a tax return examination reduced by the initial charitable contribution to the Coach Foundation and additional incentive compensation expense.
69 TABLE OF CONTENTS COACH, INC.
Market and Dividend Information Coachs common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange and is traded under the symbol COH. The following table sets forth, for the fiscal periods indicated, the high and low closing prices per share of Coachs common stock as reported on the New York Stock Exchange Composite Tape.
Fiscal Year Ended 2009 High Low Quarter ended: September 27, 2008 $ 31.11 $ 24.69 December 27, 2008 24.97 13.41 March 28, 2009 21.96 11.70 June 27, 2009 28.28 16.33 Closing price at June 26, 2009 $26.93 Fiscal Year Ended 2008 High Low Quarter ended: September 29, 2007 $ 50.70 $ 41.46 December 29, 2007 47.42 30.41 March 29, 2008 32.64 24.62 June 28, 2008 37.45 29.29 Closing price at June 27, 2008 $29.29 Fiscal Year Ended 2007 High Low Quarter ended: September 30, 2006 $ 34.65 $ 25.58 December 30, 2006 44.28 34.20 March 31, 2007 50.96 43.82 June 30, 2007 53.79 46.10 Closing price at June 29, 2007 $47.39 As of August 7, 2009, there were 3,508 holders of record of Coachs common stock.
In April 2009, Coachs Board of Directors voted to declare a cash dividend, at an expected annual rate of $0.30 per share. The first quarterly payment, of $0.075 per share, was paid on June 29, 2009 to stockholders of record as of June 8, 2009. Any future determination to pay cash dividends will be at the discretion of Coachs Board of Directors and will be dependent upon Coachs financial condition, operating results, capital requirements and such other factors as the Board of Directors deems relevant.
70 TABLE OF CONTENTS COACH, INC.
Schedule IIValuation and Qualifying Accounts For the Fiscal Years Ended June 27, 2009, June 28, 2008 and June 30, 2007 (amounts in thousands) Balance at Beginning of Year Provision Charged to Costs and Expenses Write-offs/ Allowances Taken Balance at End of Year Fiscal 2009 Allowance for bad debts $ 2,500 $ 376 $ (36 ) $ 2,840 Allowance for returns 5,217 11,707 (13,417 ) 3,507 Total $ 7,717 $ 12,083 $ (13,453 ) $ 6,347 Fiscal 2008 Allowance for bad debts $ 2,915 $ (350 ) $ (65 ) $ 2,500 Allowance for returns 3,664 11,054 (9,501 ) 5,217 Total $ 6,579 $ 10,704 $ (9,566 ) $ 7,717 Fiscal 2007 Allowance for bad debts $ 1,644 $ 1,381 $ (110 ) $ 2,915 Allowance for returns 4,356 4,752 (5,444 ) 3,664 Total $ 6,000 $ 6,133 $ (5,554 ) $ 6,579 71 TABLE OF CONTENTS COACH, INC.
EXHIBITS TO FORM 10-K (a) Exhibit Table (numbered in accordance with Item 601 of Regulation S-K) Exhibit No.
Description 3.1 Amended and Restated Bylaws of Coach, Inc., dated February 7, 2008, which is incorporated herein by reference from Exhibit 3.1 to Coachs Current Report on Form 8-K filed on February 13, 2008 3.2 Articles Supplementary of Coach, Inc., dated May 3, 2001, which is incorporated herein by reference from Exhibit 3.2 to Coachs Current Report on Form 8-K filed on May 9, 2001 3.3 Articles of Amendment of Coach, Inc., dated May 3, 2001, which is incorporated herein by reference from Exhibit 3.3 to Coachs Current Report on Form 8-K filed on May 9, 2001 3.4 Articles of Amendment of Coach, Inc., dated May 3, 2002, which is incorporated by reference from Exhibit 3.4 to Coachs Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 29, 2002 3.5 Articles of Amendment of Coach, Inc., dated February 1, 2005, which is incorporated by reference from Exhibit 99.1 to Coachs Current Report on Form 8-K filed on February 2, 2005 4.1 Amended and Restated Rights Agreement, dated as of May 3, 2001, between Coach, Inc. and Mellon Investor Services LLC, which is incorporated by reference from Exhibit 4.1 to Coachs Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 2, 2005 4.2 Specimen Certificate for Common Stock of Coach, which is incorporated herein by reference from Exhibit 4.1 to Coachs Registration Statement on Form S-1 (Registration No. 333-39502) 10.1 Revolving Credit Agreement by and between Coach, certain lenders and Bank of America, N.A. which is incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.1 to Coachs Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2007 10.2 Coach, Inc. 2000 Stock Incentive Plan, which is incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.10 to Coachs Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 28, 2003 10.3 Coach, Inc. Performance-Based Annual Incentive Plan, which is incorporated by reference from Appendix A to the Registrants Definitive Proxy Statement for the 2005 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, filed on September 28, 2005 10.4 Coach, Inc. 2000 Non-Employee Director Stock Plan, which is incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.13 to Coachs Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 28, 2003 10.5 Coach, Inc. Non-Qualified Deferred Compensation Plan for Outside Directors, which is incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.14 to Coachs Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 28, 2003 10.6 Coach, Inc. 2001 Employee Stock Purchase Plan, which is incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.15 to Coachs Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 29, 2002 10.7 Coach, Inc. 2004 Stock Incentive Plan, which is incorporated by reference from Appendix A to the Registrants Definitive Proxy Statement for the 2004 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, filed on September 29, 2004 10.8 Employment Agreement dated June 1, 2003 between Coach and Lew Frankfort, which is incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.20 to Coachs Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 28, 2003 10.9 Employment Agreement dated June 1, 2003 between Coach and Reed Krakoff, which is incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.21 to Coachs Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 28, 2003 10.10 Employment Agreement dated June 1, 2003 between Coach and Keith Monda, which is incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.22 to Coachs Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 28, 2003 72 TABLE OF CONTENTS Exhibit No.