http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1116132/000114420410046620/v190412_10k.htm
11500000000.0
COH
2010-08-25
10-K
COH_2010-08-25_10-K.txt

10-K 1 v190412_10k.htm FORM 10-K UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D.C. 20549 FORM 10-K x ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 For the Fiscal Year Ended July 3, 2010 OR o TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 Commission file number: 1-16153 Coach, Inc.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) Maryland 52-2242751 (State or other jurisdiction of incorporation or organization) (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.) 516 West 34 th Street, New York, NY 10001 (Address of principal executive offices); (Zip Code) (212) 594-1850 (Registrants telephone number, including area code) Securities Registered Pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: Title of Each Class: Name of Each Exchange on which Registered Common Stock, par value $.01 per share New York Stock Exchange Securities Registered Pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. Yes x No o Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act. Yes o No x Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes x No o Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Website, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to rule 405 of Regulation S-T during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files). Yes x No o Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrants knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.
o Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of large accelerated filer, accelerated filer and smaller reporting company in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.
Large Accelerated Filer x Accelerated Filer o Non-Accelerated Filer o Smaller Reporting Company o Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act). Yes o No x The aggregate market value of Coach, Inc. common stock held by non-affiliates as of December 26, 2009 (the last business day of the most recently completed second fiscal quarter) was approximately $11.5 billion. For purposes of determining this amount only, the registrant has excluded shares of common stock held by directors and officers. Exclusion of shares held by any person should not be construed to indicate that such person possesses the power, direct or indirect, to direct or cause the direction of the management or policies of the registrant, or that such person is controlled by or under common control with the registrant.
On August 6, 2010, the Registrant had 297,406,007 shares of common stock outstanding.
DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE Documents Form 10-K Reference Proxy Statement for the 2010 Annual Meeting of Stockholders Part III, Items 1014 TABLE OF CONTENTS COACH, INC.
TABLE OF CONTENTS Page Number PART I Item 1.
Business 1 Item 1A.
Risk Factors 10 Item 1B.
Unresolved Staff Comments 13 Item 2.
Properties 13 Item 3.
Legal Proceedings 14 Item 4.
Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders 14 PART II Item 5.
Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 15 Item 6.
Selected Financial Data 18 Item 7.
Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 20 Item 7A.
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 35 Item 8.
Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 36 Item 9.
Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 36 Item 9A.
Controls and Procedures 36 Item 9B.
Other Information 37 PART III Item 10.
Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 38 Item 11.
Executive Compensation 38 Item 12.
Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 38 Item 13.
Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 38 Item 14.
Principal Accountant Fees and Services 38 PART IV Item 15.
Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 38 Signatures 39 i TABLE OF CONTENTS SPECIAL NOTE ON FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION This document and the documents incorporated by reference in this document contain certain forward-looking statements based on managements current expectations. These forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as may, will, should, expect, intend, estimate, are positioned to, continue, project, guidance, target, forecast, anticipated or comparable terms.
Coach, Inc.s actual results could differ materially from the results contemplated by these forward-looking statements due to a number of factors, including those discussed in the sections of this Form 10-K filing entitled Risk Factors and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. These factors are not necessarily all of the important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in any of the forward-looking statements contained in this Form 10-K.
TABLE OF CONTENTS In this Form 10-K, references to Coach, we, our, us and the Company refer to Coach, Inc., including consolidated subsidiaries. The fiscal year ending July 3, 2010 (fiscal 2010) was a 53-week period. The fiscal years ended June 27, 2009 (fiscal 2009) and June 28, 2008 (fiscal 2008) were each 52-week periods. The fiscal year ending July 2, 2011 (fiscal 2011) will be a 52-week period.
PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS GENERAL DEVELOPMENT OF BUSINESS Founded in 1941, Coach was acquired by Sara Lee Corporation (Sara Lee) in 1985. In June 2000, Coach was incorporated in the state of Maryland. In October 2000, Coach was listed on the New York Stock Exchange and sold approximately 68 million shares of common stock, split adjusted, representing 19.5% of the outstanding shares. In April 2001, Sara Lee completed a distribution of its remaining ownership in Coach via an exchange offer, which allowed Sara Lee stockholders to tender Sara Lee common stock for Coach common stock.
In June 2001, Coach Japan was formed to expand our presence in the Japanese market and to exercise greater control over our brand in that country. Coach Japan was initially formed as a joint venture with Sumitomo Corporation. On July 1, 2005, we purchased Sumitomos 50% interest in Coach Japan, resulting in Coach Japan becoming a 100% owned subsidiary of Coach, Inc.
In fiscal 2009, the Company acquired the Coach domestic retail businesses in Hong Kong, Macau and mainland China (Coach China) from its former distributor, the ImagineX group. These acquisitions provide the Company with greater control over the brand in China, enabling Coach to raise brand awareness and aggressively grow market share with the Chinese consumer.
FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT SEGMENTS See the Segment information note presented in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
NARRATIVE DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS Coach has grown from a family-run workshop in a Manhattan loft to a leading American marketer of fine accessories and gifts for women and men. Coach is one of the most recognized fine accessories brands in the U.S. and in targeted international markets. We offer premium lifestyle accessories to a loyal and growing customer base and provide consumers with fresh, relevant and innovative products that are extremely well made, at an attractive price. Coachs modern, fashionable handbags and accessories use a broad range of high quality leathers, fabrics and materials. In response to our customers demands for both fashion and function, Coach offers updated styles and multiple product categories which address an increasing share of our customers accessory wardrobe. Coach has created a sophisticated, modern and inviting environment to showcase our product assortment and reinforce a consistent brand position wherever the consumer may shop. We utilize a flexible, cost-effective global sourcing model, in which independent manufacturers supply our products, allowing us to bring our broad range of products to market rapidly and efficiently.
Coach offers a number of key differentiating elements that set it apart from the competition, including: A Distinctive Brand Coach offers distinctive, easily recognizable, accessible luxury products that are relevant, extremely well made and provide excellent value.
A Market Leadership Position With Growing Share Coach is Americas leading premium handbag and accessories brand and each year, as our market share increases, our leadership position strengthens. In Japan, Coach is the leading imported luxury handbag and accessories brand by units sold.
Coachs Loyal And Involved Consumer Coach consumers have a specific emotional connection with the brand. Part of the Companys everyday mission is to cultivate consumer relationships by strengthening this emotional connection.
1 TABLE OF CONTENTS Multi-Channel International Distribution This allows Coach to maintain a critical balance as results do not depend solely on the performance of a single channel or geographic area. The Direct-to-Consumer channel provides us with immediate, controlled access to consumers through Coach-operated stores in North America, Japan, Hong Kong, Macau and mainland China and the Internet. The Indirect channel provides us with access to consumers via wholesale department store and specialty store locations in over 20 countries.
Coach Is Innovative And Consumer-Centric Coach listens to its consumer through rigorous consumer research and strong consumer orientation. Coach works to anticipate the consumers changing needs by keeping the product assortment fresh and relevant.
We believe that these differentiating elements have enabled the Company to offer a unique proposition to the marketplace. We hold the number one position within the U.S. premium handbag and accessories market and the number two position within the Japanese imported luxury handbag and accessories market.
PRODUCTS Coachs product offerings include handbags, womens and mens accessories, footwear, business cases, jewelry, wearables, sunwear, travel bags, fragrance and watches. The following table shows the percent of net sales that each product category represented: Fiscal Year Ended July 3, 2010 June 27, 2009 June 28, 2008 Handbags 63 % 62 % 62 % Accessories 28 29 29 All other products 9 9 9 Total 100 % 100 % 100 % Handbags Handbag collections feature classically inspired designs as well as fashion designs. Typically, there are three to four collections per quarter and four to seven styles per collection. These collections are designed to meet the fashion and functional requirements of our broad and diverse consumer base. In fiscal 2010, we introduced Poppy which offers a variety of fresh silhouettes with a youthful appeal, vibrant colors and accessible price points, targeting both new and existing customers. We also introduced additional lifestyle collections, of which the Kristin collection was the most notable.
Accessories Accessories include womens and mens small leather goods, novelty accessories and womens and mens belts. Womens small leather goods, which coordinate with our handbags, include money pieces, wristlets, and cosmetic cases. Mens small leather goods consist primarily of wallets and card cases. Novelty accessories include time management and electronic accessories. Key rings and charms are also included in this category.
Footwear Jimlar Corporation (Jimlar) has been Coachs footwear licensee since 1999. Footwear is distributed through select Coach retail stores, coach.com and over 950 U.S. department stores. Footwear sales are comprised primarily of womens styles, which coordinate with Coachs handbag collections.
Business Cases This assortment is primarily mens and includes computer bags, messenger-style bags and totes.
Jewelry This category is comprised of bangle bracelets, necklaces, rings and earrings offered in both sterling silver and non-precious metals.
Wearables This category is comprised of jackets, sweaters, gloves, hats and scarves, including both cold weather and fashion. The assortment is primarily womens and contains a fashion assortment in all components of this category.
Sunwear Marchon Eyewear, Inc. (Marchon) has been Coachs eyewear licensee since 2003. This collection is a collaborative effort from Marchon and Coach that combines the Coach aesthetic for fashion accessories with the latest fashion directions in sunglasses. Coach sunglasses are sold in Coach retail stores and coach.com, department stores, select sunglass retailers and optical retailers in major markets.
2 TABLE OF CONTENTS Travel Bags The travel collections are comprised of luggage and related accessories, such as travel kits and valet trays.
Fragrance Starting in the spring of 2010, Este Lauder Companies Inc. (Este Lauder), through its subsidiary, Aramis Inc., became Coachs fragrance licensee. Fragrance is distributed through Coach retail stores, coach.com and over 1,500 U.S. department stores. Coach offers three womens fragrance collections and one mens fragrance. The womens fragrance collections include eau de perfume spray, eau de toilette spray, purse spray, body lotion and body splashes.
Watches Movado Group, Inc. (Movado) has been Coachs watch licensee since 1998 and has developed a distinctive collection of watches inspired primarily by the womens collections with select mens styles.
DESIGN AND MERCHANDISING Coachs New York-based design team, led by its Executive Creative Director, is responsible for conceptualizing and directing the design of all Coach products. Designers have access to Coachs extensive archives of product designs created over the past nearly 70 years, which are a valuable resource for new product concepts. Coach designers are also supported by a strong merchandising team that analyzes sales, market trends and consumer preferences to identify business opportunities that help guide each seasons design process. Merchandisers also analyze products and edit, add and delete to achieve profitable sales across all channels. The product category teams, each comprised of design, merchandising/product development and sourcing specialists, help Coach execute design concepts that are consistent with the brands strategic direction.
Coachs design and merchandising teams work in close collaboration with all of our licensing partners to ensure that the licensed products (watches, footwear, eyewear and fragrance) are conceptualized and designed to address the intended market opportunity and convey the distinctive perspective and lifestyle associated with the Coach brand.
During fiscal 2008, the Company announced a new business initiative to drive brand creativity. This initiative has evolved into a brand of its own, Reed Krakoff, and is supported by a team of experienced designers and merchandisers and will encompass all womens categories, with a focus on ready-to-wear, handbags, accessories, footwear and jewelry. Reed Krakoff, as a standalone brand separate from the Coach brand, will target the New American luxury market. We introduced the Reed Krakoff brand with store openings in North America and Japan in early fiscal 2011.
SEGMENTS Coach operates in two reportable segments: Direct-to-Consumer and Indirect. The reportable segments represent channels of distribution that offer similar products, service and marketing strategies.
Direct-to-Consumer Segment The Direct-to-Consumer segment consists of channels that provide us with immediate, controlled access to consumers: Coach-operated stores in North America, Japan, Hong Kong, Macau and mainland China, the Internet and the Coach catalog. This segment represented approximately 87% of Coachs total net sales in fiscal 2010, with North American stores and the Internet, Coach Japan and Coach China contributing approximately 64%, 20% and 3% of total net sales, respectively.
North American Retail Stores Coach stores are located in regional shopping centers and metropolitan areas throughout the U.S. and Canada. The retail stores carry an assortment of products depending on their size and location. Our flagship stores, which offer the broadest assortment of Coach products, are located in high-visibility locations such as New York, Chicago, San Francisco and Toronto.
Our stores are sophisticated, sleek, modern and inviting. They showcase the world of Coach and enhance the shopping experience while reinforcing the image of the Coach brand. The modern store design creates a distinctive environment to display our products. Store associates are trained to maintain high standards of visual presentation, merchandising and customer service. The result is a complete statement of the Coach modern American style at the retail level.
3 TABLE OF CONTENTS The following table shows the number of Coach retail stores and their total and average square footage: Fiscal Year Ended July 3, 2010 June 27, 2009 June 28, 2008 Retail stores 342 330 297 Net increase vs. prior year 12 33 38 Percentage increase vs. prior year 3.6 % 11.1 % 14.7 % Retail square footage 929,580 893,037 795,226 Net increase vs. prior year 36,543 97,811 122,489 Percentage increase vs. prior year 4.1 % 12.3 % 18.2 % Average square footage 2,718 2,706 2,678 North American Factory Stores Coachs factory stores serve as an efficient means to sell manufactured-for-factory-store product, including factory exclusives, as well as discontinued and irregular inventory outside the retail channel. These stores operate under the Coach Factory name and are geographically positioned primarily in established outlet centers that are generally more than 40 miles from major markets.
Coachs factory store design, visual presentations and customer service levels support and reinforce the brands image. Through these factory stores, Coach targets value-oriented customers who would not otherwise buy the Coach brand. Prices are generally discounted from 10% to 50% below full retail prices.
The following table shows the number of Coach factory stores and their total and average square footage: Fiscal Year Ended July 3, 2010 June 27, 2009 June 28, 2008 Factory stores 121 111 102 Net increase vs. prior year 10 9 9 Percentage increase vs. prior year 9.0 % 8.8 % 9.7 % Factory square footage 548,797 477,724 413,389 Net increase vs. prior year 71,073 64,335 92,017 Percentage increase vs. prior year 14.9 % 15.6 % 28.6 % Average square footage 4,536 4,304 4,053 Internet Coach views its website as a key communications vehicle for the brand to promote traffic in Coach retail stores and department store locations and build brand awareness. During fiscal 2009, we relaunched the coach.com website, to enhance the e-commerce shopping experience while reinforcing the image of the Coach brand. With approximately 59 million unique visits to the website in fiscal 2010, our online store provides a showcase environment where consumers can browse through a selected offering of the latest styles and colors.
Coach Japan Coach Japan operates department store shop-in-shop locations and freestanding flagship, retail and factory stores as well as an e-commerce website. Flagship stores, which offer the broadest assortment of Coach products, are located in select shopping districts throughout Japan.
4 TABLE OF CONTENTS The following table shows the number of Coach Japan locations and their total and average square footage: Fiscal Year Ended July 3, 2010 June 27, 2009 June 28, 2008 Coach Japan locations 161 155 149 Net increase vs. prior year 6 6 12 Percentage increase vs. prior year 3.9 % 4.0 % 8.8 % Coach Japan square footage 293,441 280,428 259,993 Net increase vs. prior year 13,013 20,435 30,131 Percentage increase vs. prior year 4.6 % 7.9 % 13.1 % Average square footage 1,823 1,809 1,745 Coach China Coach China operates department store shop-in-shop locations as well as freestanding flagship, retail and factory stores. Flagship stores, which offer the broadest assortment of Coach products, are located in select shopping districts throughout Hong Kong and mainland China.
The following table shows the number of Coach China locations and their total and average square footage: Fiscal Year Ended July 3, 2010 June 27, 2009 June 28, 2008 (1) Coach China locations 41 28 24 Net increase vs. prior year 13 4 8 Percentage increase vs. prior year 46.4 % 16.7 % 50.0 % Coach China square footage 78,887 52,671 44,504 Net increase vs. prior year 26,216 8,167 18,963 Percentage increase vs. prior year 49.8 % 18.4 % 74.2 % Average square footage 1,924 1,881 1,854 (1) During fiscal 2008, these stores were operated by the ImagineX group.
Indirect Segment Coach began as a U.S. wholesaler to department stores and this segment remains important to our overall consumer reach. Today, we work closely with our partners, both domestic and international, to ensure a clear and consistent product presentation. The Indirect segment represented approximately 13% of total net sales in fiscal 2010, with U.S. Wholesale and Coach International representing approximately 7% and 5% of total net sales, respectively. The Indirect segment also includes royalties earned on licensed product.
U.S. Wholesale This channel offers access to Coach products to consumers who prefer shopping at department stores. Coach products are also available on macys.com, dillards.com and nordstrom.com. While overall U.S. department store sales have not increased over the last few years, the handbag and accessories category has remained strong, in large part due to the strength of the Coach brand. The Company continues to manage inventories in this channel given the highly promotional environment at point-of-sale.
Coach recognizes the continued importance of U.S. department stores as a distribution channel for premier accessories. We continue to fine-tune our strategy to increase productivity and drive volume in existing locations by enhancing presentation, primarily through the creation of more shop-in-shops with proprietary Coach fixtures. Coach custom tailors its assortments through wholesale product planning and allocation processes to better match the attributes of our department store consumers in each local market.
Coachs products are sold in approximately 940 wholesale locations in the U.S. and Canada. Our most significant U.S. wholesale customers are Macys (including Bloomingdales), Dillards, Nordstrom, Lord and Taylor, Von Maur and Saks.
5 TABLE OF CONTENTS Coach International This channel represents sales to international wholesale distributors and authorized retailers. Travel retail represents the largest portion of our customers sales in this channel. However, we continue to drive growth by expanding our distribution to reach local consumers in emerging markets. Coach has developed relationships with a select group of distributors who sell Coach products through department stores and freestanding retail locations in over 20 countries. Coachs current network of international distributors serves the following markets: South Korea, Taiwan, US & Territories, Mexico, Singapore, Saudi Arabia, Japan, Malaysia, Thailand, UAE, Australia, Greece, Hong Kong, France, Indonesia, Russia, Bahamas, Bahrain, China, India, Macau, New Zealand and Vietnam.
For locations not in freestanding stores, Coach has created shop-in-shops and other image enhancing environments to increase brand appeal and stimulate growth. Coach continues to improve productivity in this channel by opening larger image-enhancing locations, expanding existing stores and closing smaller, less productive stores. Coachs most significant international wholesale customers are the DFS Group, Lotte Group, Shinsegae International, Shilla Group and Tasa Meng Corp.
In mid-July 2010, Coach entered into an agreement with a key distributor to take control of our domestic retail businesses in Singapore and Malaysia. Coach currently expects to begin directly operating these markets in fiscal 2012 and fiscal 2013, respectively.
Additionally, subsequent to July 3, 2010, the Company finalized an agreement with an international partner to form a joint venture to expand the Coach International business in Europe. The Company currently anticipates retail sales through the joint venture to customers in Spain, Portugal, and the United Kingdom (including Great Britain and Ireland), with the first sales beginning in early fiscal 2011.
The following table shows the number of international wholesale locations at which Coach products are sold: Fiscal Year Ended July 3, 2010 June 27, 2009 June 28, 2008 (1) International freestanding stores 53 44 37 International department store locations 93 81 83 Other international locations 36 34 23 Total international wholesale locations 182 159 143 (1) Excludes 24 stores in fiscal 2008 that were part of the retail businesses operated by the ImagineX group in Hong Kong, Macau and mainland China.
Licensing In our licensing relationships, Coach takes an active role in the design process and controls the marketing and distribution of products under the Coach brand. The current licensing relationships as of July 3, 2010 are as follows: Category Licensing Partner Introduction Date Territory License Expiration Date Watches Movado Spring 98 Worldwide 2015 Footwear Jimlar Spring 99 U.S.
2014 Eyewear Marchon Fall 03 Worldwide 2011 Fragrance Estee Lauder Spring 10 Worldwide 2015 Products made under license are, in most cases, sold through all of the channels discussed above and, with Coachs approval, these licensees have the right to distribute Coach brand products selectively through several other channels: shoes in department store shoe salons, watches in selected jewelry stores and eyewear in selected optical retailers. These venues provide additional, yet controlled, exposure of the Coach brand. Coachs licensing partners pay royalties to Coach on their net sales of Coach branded products. However, 6 TABLE OF CONTENTS such royalties are not material to the Coach business as they currently comprise less than 1% of Coachs total revenues. The licensing agreements generally give Coach the right to terminate the license if specified sales targets are not achieved.
MARKETING Coachs marketing strategy is to deliver a consistent message each time the consumer comes in contact with the Coach brand through our communications and visual merchandising. The Coach image is created internally and executed by the creative marketing, visual merchandising and public relations teams. Coach also has a sophisticated consumer and market research capability, which helps us assess consumer attitudes and trends and gauge the likelihood of a products success in the marketplace prior to its introduction.
In conjunction with promoting a consistent global image, Coach uses its extensive customer database and consumer knowledge to target specific products and communications to specific consumers to efficiently stimulate sales across all distribution channels.
Coach engages in several consumer communication initiatives, including direct marketing activities and national, regional and local advertising. In fiscal 2010, consumer contacts increased 139% to over 392 million primarily driven by increased email communications. However, the Company continues to leverage marketing expenses by refining our marketing programs to increase productivity and optimize distribution. Total expenses related to consumer communications in fiscal 2010 were $61 million, representing less than 2% of net sales.
Coachs wide range of direct marketing activities includes email contacts, catalogs and brochures targeted to promote sales to consumers in their preferred shopping venue. In addition to building brand awareness, the coach.com website and the Coach catalog serve as effective brand communications vehicles by providing a showcase environment where consumers can browse through a strategic offering of the latest styles and colors, which drive store traffic.
As part of Coachs direct marketing strategy, the Company uses its database consisting of approximately 16 million active households in North America and 3.8 million active households in Japan. Email contacts and catalogs are Coachs principal means of communication and are sent to selected households to stimulate consumer purchases and build brand awareness. During fiscal 2010, the Company sent approximately 286 million emails to strategically selected customers as we continue to evolve our internet outreach to maximize productivity while streamlining distribution. In fiscal 2010, the Company distributed approximately 3 million catalogs in Coach stores in North America, Japan, Hong Kong, Macau and mainland China. The growing number of visitors to the coach.com websites in the U.S., Canada and Japan provides an opportunity to increase the size of these databases.
During fiscal 2010, Coach launched informational websites in China, South Korea, Malaysia, Singapore, France, the United Kingdom, Spain, Mexico and Australia. In addition, the Company utilizes and continues to explore new technologies such as blogs and social networking websites, including Twitter and Facebook, as a cost effective consumer communication opportunity to increase on-line and store sales and build brand awareness.
The Company also runs national, regional and local advertising campaigns in support of its major selling seasons.
MANUFACTURING While all of our products are manufactured by independent manufacturers, we nevertheless maintain control of the supply chain process from design through manufacture. We are able to do this by qualifying raw material suppliers and by maintaining sourcing and product development offices in Hong Kong, China, South Korea, India and Vietnam that work closely with our independent manufacturers. This broad-based, global manufacturing strategy is designed to optimize the mix of cost, lead times and construction capabilities. Over the last several years, we have increased the presence of our senior management at our manufacturers facilities to enhance control over decision making and ensure the speed with which we bring new product to market is maximized.
7 TABLE OF CONTENTS These independent manufacturers support a broad mix of product types, materials and a seasonal influx of new, fashion oriented styles, which allows us to meet shifts in marketplace demand and changes in consumer preferences. During fiscal 2010, approximately 74% of Coachs total net sales were generated from products introduced within the fiscal year. As the collections are seasonal and planned to be sold in stores for short durations, our production quantities are limited which lowers our exposure to excess and obsolete inventory.
All product sources, including independent manufacturers and licensing partners, must achieve and maintain Coachs high quality standards, which are an integral part of the Coach identity. One of Coachs keys to success lies in the rigorous selection of raw materials. Coach has longstanding relationships with purveyors of fine leathers and hardware. Although Coach products are manufactured by independent manufacturers, we maintain control of the raw materials that are used in all of our products. Compliance with quality control standards is monitored through on-site quality inspections at all independent manufacturing facilities.
Coach carefully balances its commitments to a limited number of better brand partners with demonstrated integrity, quality and reliable delivery. Our manufacturers are located in many countries, including China, United States, Italy, Hong Kong, India, Thailand, Vietnam, Peru, Philippines, Turkey, Ecuador, Great Britain, Macau and Malaysia. Coach continues to evaluate new manufacturing sources and geographies to deliver the finest quality products at the lowest cost and help limit the impact of manufacturing in inflationary markets. No one vendor currently provides more than approximately 10% of Coachs total units. Before partnering with a vendor, Coach evaluates each facility by conducting a quality and business practice standards audit. Periodic evaluations of existing, previously approved facilities are conducted on a random basis. We believe that all of our manufacturing partners are in material compliance with Coachs integrity standards.
DISTRIBUTION Coach operates an 850,000 square foot distribution and consumer service facility in Jacksonville, Florida. This automated facility uses a bar code scanning warehouse management system. Coachs distribution center employees use handheld radio frequency scanners to read product bar codes, which allow them to more accurately process and pack orders, track shipments, manage inventory and generally provide excellent service to our customers. Coachs products are primarily shipped to Coach retail stores and wholesale customers via express delivery providers and common carriers, and direct to consumers via express delivery providers.
To support our growth in China and the region, during the second half of fiscal 2010 we established an Asia distribution center in Shanghai, owned and operated by a third-party, allowing us to better manage the logistics in this region while reducing costs. The Company also operates a distribution center, through a third-party, in Japan.
MANAGEMENT INFORMATION SYSTEMS The foundation of Coachs information systems is its Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) system. This fully integrated system supports all aspects of finance and accounting, procurement, inventory control, sales and store replenishment. The system functions as a central repository for all of Coachs transactional information, resulting in increased efficiencies, improved inventory control and a better understanding of consumer demand. This system was upgraded in fiscal 2008 and continues to be fully scalable to accommodate growth.
Complementing its ERP system are several other system solutions, each of which Coach believes is well suited for its needs. The data warehouse system summarizes the transaction information and provides a single platform for all management reporting. The supply chain management system supports sales and inventory planning and reporting functions. Product fulfillment is facilitated by Coachs highly automated warehouse management system and electronic data interchange system, while the unique requirements of Coachs internet and catalog businesses are supported by Coachs order management system. Finally, the point-of-sale system supports all in-store transactions, distributes management reporting to each store, and collects sales and payroll information on a daily basis. This daily collection of store sales and inventory information results in early identification of business trends and provides a detailed baseline for store inventory replenishment. Updates and upgrades of these systems are made on a periodic basis in order to ensure that we constantly improve our functionality. All complementary systems are integrated with the central ERP system.
8 TABLE OF CONTENTS TRADEMARKS AND PATENTS Coach owns all of the material trademark rights used in connection with the production, marketing and distribution of all of its products, both in the U.S. and in other countries in which the products are principally sold. Coach also owns and maintains worldwide registrations for trademarks in all relevant classes of products in each of the countries in which Coach products are sold. Major trademarks include Coach, Coach and lozenge design, Coach and tag design, Signature C design, Coach Op Art design and The Heritage Logo (Coach Leatherware Est. 1941) . Coach is not dependent on any one particular trademark or design patent although Coach believes that the Coach name is important for its business. In addition, several of Coachs products are covered by design patents or patent applications. Coach aggressively polices its trademarks and trade dress, and pursues infringers both domestically and internationally. It also pursues counterfeiters domestically and internationally through leads generated internally, as well as through its network of investigators, the Coach hotline and business partners around the world.
Coach expects that its material trademarks will remain in existence for as long as Coach continues to use and renew them. Coach has no material patents.
SEASONALITY Because Coach products are frequently given as gifts, Coach has historically realized, and expects to continue to realize, higher sales and operating income in the second quarter of its fiscal year, which includes the holiday months of November and December. In addition, fluctuations in sales and operating income in any fiscal quarter are affected by the timing of seasonal wholesale shipments and other events affecting retail sales. Over the last several years, we have achieved higher levels of growth in the non-holiday quarters, which has reduced these seasonal fluctuations.
GOVERNMENT REGULATION Most of Coachs imported products are subject to existing or potential duties, tariffs or quotas that may limit the quantity of products that Coach may import into the U.S. and other countries or may impact the cost of such products. Coach has not been restricted by quotas in the operation of its business and customs duties have not comprised a material portion of the total cost of its products. In addition, Coach is subject to foreign governmental regulation and trade restrictions, including retaliation against certain prohibited foreign practices, with respect to its product sourcing and international sales operations.
COMPETITION The premium handbag and accessories industry is highly competitive. The Company mainly competes with European luxury brands as well as private label retailers, including some of Coachs wholesale customers. Over the last several years the category has grown, encouraging the entry of new competitors as well as increasing the competition from existing competitors. The Company believes, however, that as a market leader we benefit from this increased competition as it drives consumer interest in this brand loyal category.
The Company further believes that there are several factors that differentiate us from our competitors, including but not limited to: distinctive newness, innovation and quality of our products, ability to meet consumers changing preferences and our superior customer service.
EMPLOYEES As of July 3, 2010, Coach employed approximately 13,000 people, including both full and part time employees. Of these employees, approximately 4,400 and 6,600 were full time and part time employees, respectively, in the retail field in North America, Japan, Hong Kong, Macau, and mainland China. Approximately 60 of Coachs employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. Coach believes that its relations with its employees are good, and it has never encountered a strike or work stoppage.
FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT GEOGRAPHIC AREAS See the Segment Information note presented in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for geographic information.
9 TABLE OF CONTENTS AVAILABLE INFORMATION Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to these reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, are available free of charge on our website, located at www.coach.com , as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission. These reports are also available on the Securities and Exchange Commissions website at www.sec.gov . No information contained on any of our websites is intended to be included as part of, or incorporated by reference into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
The Company has included the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and Chief Financial Officer certifications regarding its public disclosure required by Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 as Exhibit 31.1 to this report on Form 10-K. Additionally, the Company filed with the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) the CEOs certification regarding the Companys compliance with the NYSEs Corporate Governance Listing Standards (Listing Standards) pursuant to Section 303A.12(a) of the Listing Standards, which indicated that the CEO was not aware of any violations of the Listing Standards by the Company.
ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should consider carefully all of the information set forth or incorporated by reference in this document and, in particular, the following risk factors associated with the Business of Coach and forward-looking information in this document. Please also see Special Note on Forward-Looking Information at the beginning of this report. The risks described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also have an adverse effect on us. If any of the risks below actually occur, our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition could suffer.
The current economic conditions could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.
The current uncertain economic conditions are having a significant negative impact on businesses around the world. Our results can be impacted by a number of macroeconomic factors, including but not limited to consumer confidence and spending levels, unemployment, consumer credit availability, fuel and energy costs, global factory production, commercial real estate market conditions, credit market conditions and the level of customer traffic in malls and shopping centers.
Demand for our products is significantly impacted by negative trends in consumer confidence and other economic factors affecting consumer spending behavior. The general economic conditions in the economy may continue to affect consumer purchases of our products for the foreseeable future and adversely impact our results of operations.
The growth of our business depends on the successful execution of our growth strategies, including our efforts to expand internationally.
Our growth depends on the continued success of existing products, as well as the successful design and introduction of new products. Our ability to create new products and to sustain existing products is affected by whether we can successfully anticipate and respond to consumer preferences and fashion trends. The failure to develop and launch successful new products could hinder the growth of our business. Also, any delay in the development or launch of a new product could result in our not being the first to market, which could compromise our competitive position.
Additionally, our current growth strategy includes plans to expand in a number of international regions, including Asia and Europe. We currently plan to open additional Coach stores in China, and we have entered into strategic agreements with various partners to expand our operations in Europe and to take control of certain of our retail operations in the Asia-Pacific region. We do not yet have significant experience operating in these countries, and in many of them we face established competitors. Many of these countries have different operational characteristics, including but not limited to employment and labor, transportation, logistics, real estate, and local reporting or legal requirements.
10 TABLE OF CONTENTS Furthermore, consumer demand and behavior, as well as tastes and purchasing trends may differ in these countries, and as a result, sales of our product may not be successful, or the margins on those sales may not be in line with those we currently anticipate. In many of these countries, there is significant competition to attract and retain experienced and talented employees. If our international expansion plans are unsuccessful, our financial results could be materially adversely affected.
Significant competition in our industry could adversely affect our business.
We face intense competition in the product lines and markets in which we operate. Our competitors are European luxury brands as well as private label retailers, including some of Coachs wholesale customers. There is a risk that our competitors may develop new products that are more popular with our customers. We may be unable to anticipate the timing and scale of such product introductions by competitors, which could harm our business. Our ability to compete also depends on the strength of our brand, whether we can attract and retain key talent, and our ability to protect our trademarks and design patents. A failure to compete effectively could adversely affect our growth and profitability.
We face risks associated with operating in international markets.
We operate on a global basis, with approximately 30% of our net sales coming from operations outside the U.S. However, sales to our international wholesale customers are denominated in U.S. dollars. While geographic diversity helps to reduce the Companys exposure to risks in any one country, we are subject to risks associated with international operations, including, but not limited to:  changes in exchange rates for foreign currencies, which may adversely affect the retail prices of our products, result in decreased international consumer demand, or increase our supply costs in those markets, with a corresponding negative impact on our gross margin rates,  political or economic instability or changing macroeconomic conditions in our major markets, and  changes in foreign or domestic legal and regulatory requirements resulting in the imposition of new or more onerous trade restrictions, tariffs, embargoes, exchange or other government controls.
To minimize the impact on earnings of foreign currency rate movements, we monitor our foreign currency exposure in Japan and Canada through foreign currency hedging of our subsidiaries U.S. dollar-denominated inventory purchases, as well as Coach Japans U.S. dollar-denominated intercompany loan. We cannot ensure, however, that these hedges will succeed in offsetting any negative impact of foreign currency rate movements.
A downturn in the economy could affect consumer purchases of luxury items and adversely affect our business.
Many factors affect the level of consumer spending in the premium handbag and accessories market, including, among others, general business conditions, interest rates, the availability of consumer credit, taxation and consumer confidence in future economic conditions. Consumer purchases of discretionary luxury items, such as Coach products, tend to decline during recessionary periods, when disposable income is lower. A downturn or a worsening of the current conditions in the economies in which Coach sells its products may adversely affect Coachs sales.
Our business is subject to the risks inherent in global sourcing activities.
As a company engaged in sourcing on a global scale, we are subject to the risks inherent in such activities, including, but not limited to:  unavailability of raw materials,  compliance with labor laws and other foreign governmental regulations,  compliance with our Global Business Practices,  disruptions or delays in shipments,  loss or impairment of key manufacturing sites, 11 TABLE OF CONTENTS  product quality issues,  political unrest, and  natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism and other external factors over which we have no control.
While we have business continuity and contingency plans for our sourcing sites, significant disruption of manufacturing for any of the above reasons could interrupt product supply and, if not remedied in a timely manner, could have an adverse impact on our business.
Our business is subject to increased costs due to excess inventories if we misjudge the demand for our products.
If Coach misjudges the market for its products it may be faced with significant excess inventories for some products and missed opportunities for other products. In addition, because Coach places orders for products with its manufacturers before it receives wholesale customers orders, it could experience higher excess inventories if wholesale customers order fewer products than anticipated.
Our operating results are subject to seasonal and quarterly fluctuations, which could adversely affect the market price of Coach common stock.
Because Coach products are frequently given as gifts, Coach has historically realized, and expects to continue to realize, higher sales and operating income in the second quarter of its fiscal year, which includes the holiday months of November and December. In addition, fluctuations in sales and operating income in any fiscal quarter are affected by the timing of seasonal wholesale shipments and other events affecting retail sales.
If we are unable to pay quarterly dividends at intended levels, our reputation and stock price may be harmed.
Our quarterly cash dividend is currently $0.15 per common share. The dividend program requires the use of a modest portion of our cash flow. Our ability to pay dividends will depend on our ability to generate sufficient cash flows from operations in the future. This ability may be subject to certain economic, financial, competitive and other factors that are beyond our control. Our Board of Directors (Board) may, at its discretion, decrease the intended level of dividends or entirely discontinue the payment of dividends at any time. Any failure to pay dividends after we have announced our intention to do so may negatively impact our reputation and investor confidence in us and negatively impact our stock price.
Fluctuations in our tax obligations and effective tax rate may result in volatility of our operating results and stock price.
We are subject to income taxes in many U.S. and certain foreign jurisdictions. We record tax expense based on our estimates of future payments, which include reserves for uncertain tax positions in multiple tax jurisdictions. At any one time, many tax years are subject to audit by various taxing jurisdictions. The results of these audits and negotiations with taxing authorities may affect the ultimate settlement of these issues. As a result, we expect that throughout the year there could be ongoing variability in our quarterly tax rates as events occur and exposures are evaluated. In addition, our effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be materially impacted by changes in the mix and level of earnings or by changes to existing accounting rules or regulations. Further, there is proposed tax legislation that may be enacted in the future, which could negatively impact our current or future tax structure and effective tax rates.
Provisions in Coachs charter and bylaws, Maryland law or its poison pill may delay or prevent an acquisition of Coach by a third party.
Coachs charter and bylaws and Maryland law contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire Coach without the consent of Coachs Board. Coachs charter permits its Board, without stockholder approval, to amend the charter to increase or decrease the aggregate number of shares of stock or the number of shares of stock of any class or series that Coach has the authority to issue. In addition, Coachs Board may classify or reclassify any unissued shares of common stock or preferred stock and may set the preferences, rights and other terms of the classified or reclassified shares. Although Coachs Board has no intention to do so at the present time, it could establish a series of preferred stock that could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for Coachs common stock or otherwise be in the best interest of Coachs stockholders.
12 TABLE OF CONTENTS On May 3, 2001 Coach declared a poison pill dividend distribution of rights to buy additional common stock to the holder of each outstanding share of Coachs common stock. Subject to limited exceptions, these rights may be exercised if a person or group intentionally acquires 10% or more of Coachs common stock or announces a tender offer for 10% or more of the common stock on terms not approved by the Coach Board. In this event, each right would entitle the holder of each share of Coachs common stock to buy one additional common share of Coach stock at an exercise price far below the then-current market price. Subject to certain exceptions, Coachs Board will be entitled to redeem the rights at $0.0001 per right at any time before the close of business on the tenth day following either the public announcement that, or the date on which a majority of Coachs Board becomes aware that, a person has acquired 10% or more of the outstanding common stock. As of the end of fiscal 2010, there were no shareholders whose common stock holdings exceeded the 10% threshold established by the rights plan.
Coachs bylaws can only be amended by Coachs Board. Coachs bylaws also provide that nominations of persons for election to Coachs Board and the proposal of business to be considered at a stockholders meeting may be made only in the notice of the meeting, by Coachs Board or by a stockholder who is entitled to vote at the meeting and has complied with the advance notice procedures of Coachs bylaws. Also, under Maryland law, business combinations, including issuances of equity securities, between Coach and any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of Coachs common stock or an affiliate of such person are prohibited for a five-year period, beginning on the date such person last becomes a 10% stockholder, unless exempted in accordance with the statute. After this period, a combination of this type must be approved by two super-majority stockholder votes, unless some conditions are met or the business combination is exempted by Coachs Board.
ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None.
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES The following table sets forth the location, use and size of Coachs distribution, corporate and product development facilities as of July 3, 2010. The majority of the properties are leased, with the leases expiring at various times through 2028, subject to renewal options.
Location Use Approximate Square Footage Jacksonville, Florida Distribution and consumer service 850,000 New York, New York Corporate, sourcing and product development 385,000 (1) Carlstadt, New Jersey Corporate and product development 65,000 Tokyo, Japan Coach Japan regional management 32,000 Dongguan, China Sourcing, quality control and product development 27,000 Shanghai, China Coach China regional management 22,000 Hong Kong Coach Hong Kong regional management 9,000 Hong Kong Sourcing and quality control 6,000 Beijing, China Coach China regional management 3,000 Seoul, South Korea Sourcing 3,000 Long An, Vietnam Sourcing and quality control 1,000 Chennai, India Sourcing and quality control 600 (1) Includes 250,000 square feet in Coach owned buildings. During fiscal 2009, Coach purchased its corporate headquarters building at 516 West 34th Street in New York City for $126.3 million.
As of July 3, 2010, Coach also occupied 342 retail and 121 factory leased stores located in North America, 161 Coach-operated department store shop-in-shops, retail stores and factory stores in Japan and 41 Coach-operated department store shop-in-shops, retail stores and factory stores in Hong Kong, Macau and mainland China. These leases expire at various times through 2024. Coach considers these properties to be in 13 TABLE OF CONTENTS generally good condition and believes that its facilities are adequate for its operations and provide sufficient capacity to meet its anticipated requirements.
ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS Coach is involved in various routine legal proceedings as both plaintiff and defendant incident to the ordinary course of its business, including proceedings to protect Coachs intellectual property rights, litigation instituted by persons alleged to have been injured upon premises within Coachs control and litigation with present or former employees.
As part of Coachs policing program for its intellectual property rights, from time to time, Coach files lawsuits in the U.S. and abroad alleging acts of trademark counterfeiting, trademark infringement, patent infringement, trade dress infringement, trademark dilution and/or state or foreign law claims. At any given point in time, Coach may have a number of such actions pending. These actions often result in seizure of counterfeit merchandise and/or out of court settlements with defendants. From time to time, defendants will raise, either as affirmative defenses or as counterclaims, the invalidity or unenforceability of certain of Coachs intellectual properties.
Although Coachs litigation with present or former employees is routine and incidental to the conduct of Coachs business, as well as for any business employing significant numbers of U.S.-based employees, such litigation can result in large monetary awards when a civil jury is allowed to determine compensatory and/or punitive damages for actions claiming discrimination on the basis of age, gender, race, religion, disability or other legally protected characteristic or for termination of employment that is wrongful or in violation of implied contracts.
Coach believes that the outcome of all pending legal proceedings in the aggregate will not have a material adverse effect on Coachs business or consolidated financial statements.
Coach has not entered into any transactions that have been identified by the IRS as abusive or that have a significant tax avoidance purpose. Accordingly, we have not been required to pay a penalty to the IRS for failing to make disclosures required with respect to certain transactions that have been identified by the IRS as abusive or that have a significant tax avoidance purpose.
ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS None.
14 TABLE OF CONTENTS PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Market and Dividend Information Coachs common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange and is traded under the symbol COH. The following table sets forth, for the fiscal periods indicated, the high and low closing prices per share of Coachs common stock as reported on the New York Stock Exchange Composite Tape.
Fiscal Year Ended 2010 High Low Quarter ended: September 26, 2009 $ 33.49 $ 23.40 December 26, 2009 37.07 30.95 March 27, 2010 40.31 33.97 July 3, 2010 44.32 35.77 Closing price at July 2, 2010 $ 35.77 Fiscal Year Ended 2009 High Low Quarter ended: September 27, 2008 $ 31.11 $ 24.69 December 27, 2008 24.97 13.41 March 28, 2009 21.96 11.70 June 27, 2009 28.28 16.33 Closing price at June 26, 2009 $ 26.93 Fiscal Year Ended 2008 High Low Quarter ended: September 29, 2007 $ 50.70 $ 41.46 December 29, 2007 47.42 30.41 March 29, 2008 32.64 24.62 June 28, 2008 37.45 29.29 Closing price at June 27, 2008 $ 29.29 As of August 6, 2010, there were 3,553 holders of record of Coachs common stock.
In fiscal 2010, a dividend of $0.075 per share, was paid on June 29, 2009, September 28, 2009, December 28, 2009 and March 29, 2010. In fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2008, the Company did not pay any cash dividends. In April 2010, Coachs Board voted to increase the Companys cash dividend to an expected annual rate of $0.60 per share starting with the dividend paid on July 6, 2010. Any future determination to pay cash dividends will be at the discretion of Coachs Board and will be dependent upon Coachs financial condition, operating results, capital requirements and such other factors as the Board deems relevant.
15 TABLE OF CONTENTS Performance Graph The following graph compares the cumulative total stockholder return (assuming reinvestment of dividends) of Coachs common stock with the cumulative total return of the S&P 500 Stock Index and the peer group companies listed below over the five-fiscal-year period ending July 2, 2010, the last trading day of Coachs most recent fiscal year. Coachs peer group, as determined by management, consists of:  Ann Taylor Stores Corporation,  Kenneth Cole Productions, Inc.,  Polo Ralph Lauren Corporation,  Tiffany & Co.,  Talbots, Inc., and  Williams-Sonoma, Inc.
Jul-05 Jun-06 Jun-07 Jun-08 Jun-09 Jul-10 COH 100.00 79.97 144.70 105.95 77.59 104.19 Peer Group 100.00 100.90 128.19 93.16 55.02 82.60 S&P 500 100.00 104.74 131.72 123.26 84.78 94.25 The graph assumes that $100 was invested on July 1, 2005 at the per share closing price in each of Coachs common stock, the S&P 500 Stock Index and a Peer Group index compiled by us tracking the peer group companies listed above, and that all dividends were reinvested. The stock performance shown in the graph is not intended to forecast or be indicative of future performance.
16 TABLE OF CONTENTS Stock Repurchase Program The Companys share repurchases during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010 were as follows: Period Total Number of Shares Purchased Average Price Paid per Share Total Number of Shares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Plans or Programs (1) Approximate Dollar Value of Shares that May Yet be Purchased Under the Plans or Programs (1) (in thousands, except per share data) Period 10 (3/28/105/1/10) 1,487 43.17 1,487 945,449 Period 11 (5/2/105/29/10) 4,453 40.73 4,453 764,071 Period 12 (5/30/107/3/10) 4,921 41.54 4,921 559,627 Total 10,861 10,861 (1) The Company repurchases its common shares under repurchase programs that were approved by the Board as follows: Date Share Repurchase Programs were Publicly Announced Total Dollar Amount Approved Expiration Date of Plan August 25, 2008 $1.0 billion June 2010 April 20, 2010 $1.0 billion June 2012 17 TABLE OF CONTENTS ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA (dollars and shares in thousands, except per share data) The selected historical financial data presented below as of and for each of the fiscal years in the five-year period ended July 3, 2010 have been derived from Coachs audited Consolidated Financial Statements. The financial data should be read in conjunction with Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto and other financial data included elsewhere herein.
Fiscal Year Ended (1) July 3, 2010 June 27, 2009 (2) June 28, 2008 (2) June 30, 2007 (3) July 1, 2006 Consolidated Statements of Income: Net sales $ 3,607,636 $ 3,230,468 $ 3,180,757 $ 2,612,456 $ 2,035,085 Gross profit 2,633,691 2,322,610 2,407,103 2,022,986 1,581,567 Selling, general and administrative expenses 1,483,520 1,350,697 1,259,974 1,029,589 866,860 Operating income 1,150,171 971,913 1,147,129 993,397 714,707 Interest income, net 1,757 5,168 47,820 41,273 32,623 Income from continuing operations 734,940 623,369 783,039 636,529 463,840 Income from continuing operations: Per basic share $ 2.36 $ 1.93 $ 2.20 $ 1.72 $ 1.22 Per diluted share 2.33 1.91 2.17 1.69 1.19 Weighted-average basic shares outstanding 311,413 323,714 355,731 369,661 379,635 Weighted-average diluted shares outstanding 315,848 325,620 360,332 377,356 388,495 Dividends declared per common share (4) 0.375 0.075    Consolidated Percentage of Net Sales Data: Gross margin 73.0 % 71.9 % 75.7 % 77.4 % 77.7 % Selling, general and administrative expenses 41.1 % 41.8 % 39.6 % 39.4 % 42.6 % Operating margin 31.9 % 30.1 % 36.1 % 38.0 % 35.1 % Income from continuing operations 20.4 % 19.3 % 24.6 % 24.4 % 22.8 % Consolidated Balance Sheet Data: Working capital $ 773,605 $ 936,757 $ 908,277 $ 1,309,299 $ 608,152 Total assets 2,467,115 2,564,336 2,247,353 2,426,611 1,602,014 Cash, cash equivalents and investments 702,398 806,362 706,905 1,185,816 537,565 Inventory 363,285 326,148 318,490 267,779 208,476 Long-term debt 24,159 25,072 2,580 2,865 3,100 Stockholders equity 1,505,293 1,696,042 1,490,375 1,888,499 1,165,274 Coach Operated Store Data: (5) North American retail stores 342 330 297 259 218 North American factory stores 121 111 102 93 86 Coach Japan locations 161 155 149 137 118 Coach China locations 41 28 24 16 10 Total stores open at fiscal year-end 665 624 572 505 432 North American retail stores 929,580 893,037 795,226 672,737 562,553 North American factory stores 548,797 477,724 413,389 321,372 281,787 Coach Japan locations 293,441 280,428 259,993 229,862 194,375 Coach China locations 78,887 52,671 44,504 25,541 14,240 Total store square footage at fiscal year-end 1,850,705 1,703,860 1,513,112 1,249,512 1,052,955 Average store square footage at fiscal year-end: North American retail stores 2,718 2,706 2,678 2,597 2,581 North American factory stores 4,536 4,304 4,053 3,456 3,277 Coach Japan locations 1,823 1,809 1,745 1,678 1,647 Coach China locations 1,924 1,881 1,854 1,596 1,424 (1) Coachs fiscal year ends on the Saturday closest to June 30. Fiscal year 2010 was a 53-week year. Fiscal years 2009, 2008, 2007 and 2006 were each 52-week years.
18 TABLE OF CONTENTS (2) During fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2008, the Company recorded certain items which affect the comparability of our results. The following tables reconcile the as reported results to such results excluding these items. See Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, for further information about these items.
Fiscal 2009 SG&A Operating Income Interest Income, net Income from Continuing Operations Amount Per Diluted Share As Reported: $ 1,350,697 $ 971,913 $ 5,168 $ 623,369 $ 1.91 Excluding items affecting comparability (28,365 ) 28,365 (2,012 ) (1,241 ) 0.00 Adjusted: $ 1,322,332 $ 1,000,278 $ 3,156 $ 622,128 $ 1.91 Fiscal 2008 SG&A Operating Income Interest Income, net Income from Continuing Operations Amount Per Diluted Share As Reported: $ 1,259,974 $ 1,147,129 $ 47,820 $ 783,039 $ 2.17 Excluding items affecting comparability (32,100 ) 32,100 (10,650 ) (41,037 ) (0.11 ) Adjusted: $ 1,227,874 $ 1,179,229 $ 37,170 $ 742,002 $ 2.06 (3) During fiscal 2007, the Company exited its corporate accounts business. See the Discontinued Operations note presented in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information.
(4) During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, the Company initiated a cash dividend at an annual rate of $0.30 per share. The first quarterly payment of $0.075 per common share, or approximately $23.8 million was made on June 29, 2009 (the first business day of fiscal 2010). Subsequent payments of approximately $23.9 million, $23.7 million and $22.9 million were made on September 28, 2009, December 28, 2009 and March 29, 2010, respectively. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010, the Company increased the cash dividend to an expected annual rate of $0.60 per share. The first increased quarterly payment of $0.15 per common share, or approximately $44.8 million, was made on July 6, 2010 (the first business day of fiscal 2011).
(5) During fiscal 2009, the Company acquired its domestic retail businesses in Hong Kong, Macau and mainland China from its former distributor, the ImagineX group. Prior to the acquisitions, these locations were operated by the ImagineX group. See the Acquisitions note presented in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
19 TABLE OF CONTENTS ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion of Coachs financial condition and results of operations should be read together with Coachs financial statements and notes to those statements included elsewhere in this document. When used herein, the terms Coach, Company, we, us and our refer to Coach, Inc., including consolidated subsidiaries.
EXECUTIVE OVERVIEW Coach is a leading American marketer of fine accessories and gifts for women and men. Our product offerings include handbags, womens and mens accessories, footwear, jewelry, wearables, business cases, sunwear, travel bags, fragrance and watches. Coach operates in two segments: Direct-to-Consumer and Indirect. The Direct-to-Consumer segment includes sales to consumers through Company-operated stores in North America, Japan, Hong Kong, Macau and mainland China, the Internet and Coach catalog. The Indirect segment includes sales to wholesale customers and distributors in over 20 countries, including the United States, and royalties earned on licensed product. As Coachs business model is based on multi-channel international distribution, our success does not depend solely on the performance of a single channel or geographic area.
In order to sustain growth within our global framework, we continue to focus on two key growth strategies: increased global distribution, with an emphasis on North America and China, and improved store sales productivity. To that end we are focused on five key initiatives:  Build market share in the North American womens accessories market. As part of our culture of innovation and continuous improvement, we have implemented a number of initiatives to accelerate the level of newness, elevate our product offering and enhance the in-store experience. These initiatives will enable us to continue to leverage our leadership position in the market.
Continue to grow our North American retail store base primarily by opening stores in new markets and adding stores in under-penetrated existing markets. We believe that North America can support about 500 retail stores in total, including up to 30 in Canada. We currently plan to open approximately 10 new retail stores in fiscal 2011, the majority of which will be in new markets for Coach freestanding stores. The pace of our future retail store openings will depend upon the economic environment and reflect opportunities in the marketplace.
Build market share in the Japanese and North American Mens market. We have implemented a number of initiatives to elevate our mens product offering through image-enhancing and accessible locations.
Raise brand awareness and build market share in emerging markets, notably in China, where our brand awareness is increasing and the category is developing rapidly. We opened our first mainland China flagship store in April 2010 and currently plan to open about 30 new locations in mainland China in fiscal 2011.
Continue to expand market share with the Japanese consumer, driving growth in Japan primarily by opening new retail locations. We believe that Japan can support about 180 locations in total. We currently plan to open approximately seven net new locations in Japan in fiscal 2011.
We believe the growth strategies described above will allow us to deliver long-term superior returns on our investments and drive increased cash flows from operating activities. However, the current macroeconomic environment, while stabilizing, has created a challenging retail market in which consumers, notably in North America and Japan, are still cautious. The Company believes long-term growth can still be achieved through a combination of expanded distribution, a focus on innovation to support productivity and disciplined expense control. Our multi-channel distribution model is diversified and includes substantial international and factory businesses, which reduces our reliance upon our full-price U.S. business. With an essentially debt-free balance sheet and significant cash position, we believe we are well positioned to manage our business to take advantage of profitable growth opportunities while returning cash to shareholders through common stock repurchases and dividends.
20 TABLE OF CONTENTS FISCAL 2010 HIGHLIGHTS The key metrics of fiscal 2010 were:  Earnings per diluted share rose 21.5% to $2.33. Excluding items affecting comparability in fiscal 2009, earnings per diluted share increased 21.8%.
Net sales increased 11.7% to $3.61 billion. The 53 rd week in fiscal 2010 contributed approximately $70 million of additional net sales.
Direct-to-consumer sales rose 15.7% to $3.16 billion.
Comparable sales in Coachs North American stores increased 3.5%, primarily due to improved conversion.
In North America, Coach opened 12 net new retail stores and 10 new factory stores, bringing the total number of retail and factory stores to 342 and 121, respectively, at the end of fiscal 2010. We also expanded five factory stores in North America.
Coach Japan opened six net new locations, bringing the total number of locations at the end of fiscal 2010 to 161. In addition, we expanded two locations.
Coach China results continued to be strong with double-digit growth in comparable stores and channel profitability and total retail sales in excess of $100 million. At the end of fiscal 2010, we had a total of 41 locations.
Coachs Board voted to increase the Companys cash dividend to an expected annual rate of $0.60 per share starting with the dividend paid on July 6, 2010.
21 TABLE OF CONTENTS FISCAL 2010 COMPARED TO FISCAL 2009 The following table summarizes results of operations for fiscal 2010 compared to fiscal 2009: Fiscal Year Ended July 3, 2010 June 27, 2009 Variance (dollars in millions, except per share data) Amount % of net sales Amount % of net sales Amount % Net sales $ 3,607.6 100.0 % $ 3,230.5 100.0 % $ 377.2 11.7 % Gross profit 2,633.7 73.0 2,322.6 71.9 311.1 13.4 Selling, general and administrative expenses 1,483.5 41.1 1,350.7 41.8 132.8 9.8 Operating income 1,150.2 31.9 971.9 30.1 178.3 18.3 Interest income, net 1.8 0.0 5.2 0.2 (3.4 ) (66.0 ) Provision for income taxes 417.0 11.6 353.7 10.9 63.3 17.9 Net income 734.9 20.4 623.4 19.3 111.6 17.9 Net Income per share: Basic $ 2.36 $ 1.93 $ 0.43 22.6 % Diluted $ 2.33 $ 1.91 $ 0.41 21.5 % Net Sales The following table presents net sales by operating segment for fiscal 2010 compared to fiscal 2009: Fiscal Year Ended Net Sales Percentage of Total Net Sales July 3, 2010 June 27, 2009 Rate of Change July 3, 2010 June 27, 2009 (dollars in millions) (FY10 vs. FY09) Direct-to-Consumer $ 3,155.8 $ 2,726.9 15.7 % 87.5 % 84.4 % Indirect 451.8 503.6 (10.3 ) 12.5 15.6 Total net sales $ 3,607.6 $ 3,230.5 11.7 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 22 TABLE OF CONTENTS Direct-to-Consumer Net sales increased 15.7% to $3.16 billion during fiscal 2010 from $2.73 billion during fiscal 2009, driven by sales increases in our Company-operated stores in North America and China. The net sales increase was also driven by an additional week of sales, which represented approximately $62 million.
Comparable store sales measure sales performance at stores that have been open for at least 12 months, and includes sales from coach.com. Coach excludes new locations from the comparable store base for the first year of operation. Similarly, stores that are expanded by 15.0% or more are also excluded from the comparable store base until the first anniversary of their reopening. Stores that are closed for renovations are removed from the comparable store base.
In North America, net sales increased 16.1% driven by sales from new and expanded stores and by a 3.5% increase in comparable store sales. During fiscal 2010, Coach opened 12 net new retail stores and 10 net new factory stores, and expanded five factory stores in North America. In Japan, net sales increased 7.8% driven by an approximately $51.9 million or 7.8% positive impact from foreign currency exchange. During fiscal 2010, Coach opened six net new locations and expanded two locations in Japan. The remaining change in net sales is attributable to Coach China, primarily as a result of the full year impact of the acquisitions of our retail businesses in Hong Kong, Macau and mainland China, new stores opened during fiscal 2010 and comparable store sales.
Indirect Net sales decreased 10.3% driven primarily by a 18.2% decrease in U.S. wholesale as the Company continued to control shipments into U.S. department stores in order to manage customer inventory levels due to a weak sales environment. The net sales decrease was partially offset by an additional week of sales, which represented approximately $8 million. We continue to experience better performance with international locations catering to indigenous consumers, where the brand is gaining recognition, whereas the Companys travel business has experienced weakness, as it is heavily dependent on the Japanese traveler. Licensing revenue of approximately $19.2 million and $19.5 million in fiscal 2010 and fiscal 2009, respectively, is included in Indirect sales.
Operating Income Operating income increased 18.3% to $1.15 billion in fiscal 2010 as compared to $971.9 million in fiscal 2009. Excluding items affecting comparability of $28.4 million in fiscal 2009, operating income increased 15.0% from $1.00 billion. Operating margin increased to 31.9% as compared to 30.1% in the prior year, as gross margin increased while selling, general, and administrative (SG&A) expenses declined as a percentage of sales. Excluding items affecting comparability, operating margin was 31.0% in fiscal 2009.
Gross profit increased 13.4% to $2.63 billion in fiscal 2010 from $2.32 billion in fiscal 2009. Gross margin was 73.0% in fiscal 2010 as compared to 71.9% during fiscal 2009. The change in gross margin was driven primarily by lower manufacturing costs and product mix. Coachs gross profit is dependent upon a variety of factors, including changes in the relative sales mix among distribution channels, changes in the mix of products sold, foreign currency exchange rates and fluctuations in material costs. These factors among others may cause gross profit to fluctuate from year to year.
SG&A expenses are comprised of four categories: (1) selling; (2) advertising, marketing and design; (3) distribution and consumer service; and (4) administrative. Selling expenses include store employee compensation, store occupancy costs, store supply costs, wholesale account administration compensation and all Coach Japan and Coach China operating expenses. These expenses are affected by the number of Coach-operated stores in North America, Japan, Hong Kong, Macau and mainland China open during any fiscal period and the related proportion of retail and wholesale sales. Advertising, marketing and design expenses include employee compensation, media space and production, advertising agency fees, new product design costs, public relations, market research expenses and mail order costs. Distribution and consumer service expenses include warehousing, order fulfillment, shipping and handling, customer service and bag repair costs. Administrative expenses include compensation costs for the executive, finance, human resources, legal and information systems departments, corporate headquarters occupancy costs, and consulting and software expenses. SG&A expenses increase as the number of Coach-operated stores increase, although an increase in the number of stores generally results in the fixed portion of SG&A expenses being spread over a larger sales base.
23 TABLE OF CONTENTS During fiscal 2010, SG&A expenses increased 9.8% to $1.48 billion, compared to $1.35 billion in fiscal 2009. Excluding items affecting comparability of $28.4 million in fiscal 2009, SG&A expenses were $1.32 billion. As a percentage of net sales, SG&A expenses were 41.1% and 41.8% during fiscal 2010 and fiscal 2009, respectively. Excluding items affecting comparability during fiscal 2009, selling general and administrative expenses as a percentage of net sales were 40.9%. Overall SG&A expenses increased primarily from higher administrative expenses driven by performance-based compensation and a prior year reversal of a straight-line rent accrual, resulting from the purchase of our corporate headquarters building, that did not recur in fiscal 2010.
Selling expenses were $1.05 billion, or 29.1% of net sales, in fiscal 2010 compared to $981.5 million, or 30.4% of net sales, in fiscal 2009. Excluding items affecting comparability during fiscal 2009 of $5.0 million related to the planned closure of four underperforming stores during the stores lease terms, selling expenses were $976.5 million, representing 30.2% of net sales. The dollar increase in selling expenses was primarily due to an increase in operating expenses of North American stores and Coach China. The increase in North American store expenses was primarily attributable to expenses from new and expanded stores opened during fiscal 2010 and the incremental expense associated with having a full year of expenses related to stores opened in the prior year. Coach China and North American store expenses as a percentage of sales decreased primarily attributable to operating efficiencies achieved since the end of the fiscal 2009. The increase in Coach Japan operating expenses was driven primarily by the impact of foreign currency exchange rates which increased reported expenses by approximately $22.0 million.
Advertising, marketing, and design costs were $179.4 million, or 5.0% of net sales, in fiscal 2010, compared to $163.6 million, or 5.1% of net sales, during fiscal 2009. The increase was primarily due to new design expenditures for the Reed Krakoff brand, with expected introductions in fiscal year 2011, partly offset by controlled sample making expenses.
Distribution and consumer service expenses were $48.0 million, or 1.3% of net sales, in fiscal 2010, compared to $52.2 million, or 1.6%, in fiscal 2009. The decrease in expenses was primarily the result of fiscal 2009 cost savings initiatives and process improvements.
Administrative expenses were $204.0 million, or 5.7% of net sales, in fiscal 2010 compared to $153.4 million, or 4.7% of net sales, during fiscal 2009. Excluding items affecting comparability of $23.4 in fiscal 2009, expenses were $130.0 million, representing 4.0% of net sales. The increase in administrative expenses was primarily due to higher performance-based and share-based compensation. Also during fiscal 2009, the Company reversed straight-line rent accruals resulting from the purchase of our corporate headquarters building during the lease period.
Interest Income, Net Net interest income was $1.8 million in fiscal 2010 compared to $5.2 million in fiscal 2009. Excluding items affecting comparability of $2.0 million in fiscal 2009, net interest income was $3.2 million. The decrease is attributable to lower returns on our investments due to lower interest rates.
Provision for Income Taxes The effective tax rate was 36.2% in both fiscal 2010 and fiscal 2009. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, the Company recorded a benefit of $16.8 million primarily related to favorable settlements of tax return examinations and certain other tax accounting adjustments. Excluding these benefits, the effective tax rate was 38.0% in fiscal 2009.
Net Income Net income was $734.9 million in fiscal 2010 compared to $623.4 million in fiscal 2009. Excluding items affecting comparability of $1.2 million in fiscal 2009, net income was $622.1 million in fiscal 2009. The increase was primarily due to operating income improvement partially offset by a higher provision for income taxes.
24 TABLE OF CONTENTS FISCAL 2009 COMPARED TO FISCAL 2008 The following table summarizes results of operations for fiscal 2009 compared to fiscal 2008: Fiscal Year Ended June 27, 2009 June 28, 2008 Variance (dollars in millions, except per share data) Amount % of net sales Amount % of net sales Amount % Net sales $ 3,230.5 100.0 % $ 3,180.8 100.0 % $ 49.7 1.6 % Gross profit 2,322.6 71.9 2,407.1 75.7 (84.5 ) (3.5 ) Selling, general and administrative expenses 1,350.7 41.8 1,260.0 39.6 90.7 7.2 Operating income 971.9 30.1 1,147.1 36.1 (175.2 ) (15.3 ) Interest income, net 5.2 0.2 47.8 1.5 (42.7 ) (89.2 ) Provision for income taxes 353.7 10.9 411.9 13.0 (58.2 ) (14.1 ) Income from continuing operations 623.4 19.3 783.0 24.6 (159.7 ) (20.4 ) Income from discontinued operations, net of taxes  0.0 0.0 0.0 (0.0 ) (100.0 ) Net income 623.4 19.3 783.1 24.6 (159.7 ) (20.4 ) Net Income per share: Basic Continuing operations $ 1.93 $ 2.20 $ (0.28 ) (12.5 )% Discontinued operations  0.00 (0.00 ) (100.0 ) Net income 1.93 2.20 (0.28 ) (12.5 ) Diluted Continuing operations $ 1.91 $ 2.17 $ (0.26 ) (11.9 )% Discontinued operations  0.00 (0.00 ) (100.0 ) Net income 1.91 2.17 (0.26 ) (11.9 ) Net Sales The following table presents net sales by operating segment for fiscal 2009 compared to fiscal 2008: Fiscal Year Ended Net Sales Percentage of Total Net Sales June 27, 2009 June 28, 2008 Rate of Change June 27, 2009 June 28, 2008 (dollars in millions) (FY09 vs. FY08) Direct-to-Consumer $ 2,726.9 $ 2,557.9 6.6 % 84.4 % 80.4 % Indirect 503.6 622.9 (19.2 ) 15.6 19.6 Total net sales $ 3,230.5 $ 3,180.8 1.6 % 100.0 % 100.0 % In connection with the acquisitions of the retail businesses in Hong Kong, Macau and mainland China, the Company evaluated the composition of its reportable segments and concluded that sales in these regions should be included in the Direct-to-Consumer segment. Accordingly, fiscal 2008 comparable sales have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation.
25 TABLE OF CONTENTS Direct-to-Consumer Net sales increased 6.6% to $2.73 billion during fiscal 2009 from $2.56 billion during fiscal 2008, driven by sales from new and expanded stores, partially offset by a decline in comparable store sales.
In North America, net sales increased 5.4% as sales from new and expanded stores were partially offset by a 6.8% decline in comparable store sales and a decline in Internet sales. During fiscal 2009, Coach opened 33 net new retail stores and nine net new factory stores, and expanded 11 retail stores and nine factory stores in North America. In Japan, net sales increased 11.1% driven by an approximately $70.2 million or 11.8% positive impact from foreign currency exchange. During fiscal 2009, Coach opened six net new locations and expanded three locations in Japan. The remaining change in net sales is attributable to Coach China, primarily as a result of the acquisitions of our retail businesses in Hong Kong, Macau and mainland China.
Indirect Net sales decreased 19.2% driven primarily by a 20.8% decrease in U.S. wholesale as the Company reduced shipments into U.S. department stores in order to manage customer inventory levels due to a weaker sales environment. International shipments also declined 6.7% as strong retail sales at locations targeting the domestic customer were offset by a decrease in retail sales at locations serving international tourists. Licensing revenue of approximately $19.5 million and $27.1 million in fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2008, respectively, is included in Indirect sales.
Operating Income Operating income decreased 15.3% to $971.9 million in fiscal 2009 as compared to $1.15 billion in fiscal 2008. Excluding items affecting comparability of $28.4 million and $32.1 million in fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2008, respectively, operating income decreased 15.2% to $1.00 billion in fiscal 2009 as compared to $1.18 billion in fiscal 2008. Operating margin decreased to 30.1% as compared to 36.1% in the prior year, as gross margin declined while SG&A expenses increased. Excluding items affecting comparability, operating margin was 31.0% and 37.1% in fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2008, respectively.
Gross profit decreased 3.5% to $2.32 billion in fiscal 2009 from $2.41 billion in fiscal 2008. Gross margin was 71.9% in fiscal 2009 as compared to 75.7% during fiscal 2008. The change in gross margin was driven primarily by promotional activities in Coach-operated North American factory stores and channel mix. Gross margin was also negatively impacted by our sharper pricing initiative, in which retail prices on handbags and womens accessories have been reduced in response to consumers reluctance to spend, and an increase in average unit cost. Coachs gross profit is dependent upon a variety of factors, including changes in the relative sales mix among distribution channels, changes in the mix of products sold, foreign currency exchange rates and fluctuations in material costs. These factors among others may cause gross profit to fluctuate from year to year.
During fiscal 2009, SG&A expenses increased 7.2% to $1.35 billion, compared to $1.26 billion in fiscal 2008, driven primarily by an increase in selling expenses partially offset by a decrease in administrative expenses. As a percentage of net sales, SG&A expenses were 41.8% and 39.6% during fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2008, respectively. Excluding items affecting comparability of $28.4 million and $32.1 million in fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2008, respectively, SG&A expenses were $1.32 billion and $1.23 billion, respectively, representing 40.9% and 38.6% of net sales, respectively.
Selling expenses were $981.5 million, or 30.4% of net sales, in fiscal 2009 compared to $865.2 million, or 27.2% of net sales, in fiscal 2008. Excluding items affecting comparability during fiscal 2009 of $5.0 million related to the closure of four underperforming stores, selling expenses were $976.5 million, representing 30.2% of net sales. The dollar increase in selling expenses was primarily due to an increase in operating expenses of North American stores, the newly formed Coach China and Coach Japan. The increase in North American store expenses was primarily attributable to expenses from new and expanded stores opened during fiscal 2009 and the incremental expense associated with having a full year of expenses related to stores opened in the prior year. Fiscal 2009 includes operating expenses of Coach China, which consisted of investments in stores, marketing, organization and infrastructure. The increase in Coach Japan operating expenses was driven primarily by the impact of foreign currency exchange rates which increased reported expenses by approximately $29.1 million.
26 TABLE OF CONTENTS Advertising, marketing, and design costs were $163.6 million, or 5.1% of net sales, in fiscal 2009, compared to $147.7 million, or 4.6% of net sales, during fiscal 2008. The increase was primarily due to design expenditures and development costs for new merchandising initiatives.
Distribution and consumer service expenses were $52.2 million, or 1.6% of net sales, in fiscal 2009, compared to $47.6 million, or 1.5%, in fiscal 2008. The increase was primarily the result of an increase in fixed occupancy costs related to the expansion of our distribution center that was completed in August 2008.
Administrative expenses were $153.4 million, or 4.7% of net sales, in fiscal 2009 compared to $199.5 million, or 6.3% of net sales, during fiscal 2008. Excluding items affecting comparability of $23.4 million and $32.1 million in fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2008, respectively, expenses were $130.0 million and $167.4 million, respectively, representing 4.0% and 5.3% of net sales. The decrease in administrative expenses was primarily due to a decrease in performance-based compensation expense and lower rent expense as a result of the purchase of our corporate headquarters building.
Interest Income, Net Net interest income was $5.2 million in fiscal 2009 compared to $47.8 million in fiscal 2008. Excluding items affecting comparability of $2.0 million and $10.7 million in fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2008, respectively, net interest income was $3.2 million and $37.2 million. This decrease is attributable to lower returns on our investments due to lower interest rates and lower average cash balances.
Provision for Income Taxes The effective tax rate was 36.2% in fiscal 2009 compared to 34.5% in fiscal 2008. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2008, the Company recorded a benefit of $16.8 million and $50.0 million, respectively, primarily related to favorable settlements of tax return examinations and certain other tax accounting adjustments. Excluding these benefits, the effective tax rates were 38.0% and 39.0%.
Income from Continuing Operations Income from continuing operations was $623.4 million in fiscal 2009 compared to $783.0 million in fiscal 2008. Excluding items affecting comparability of $1.2 million and $41.0 million in fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2008, respectively, income from continuing operations was $622.1 million and $742.0 million in fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2008, respectively. This decrease was primarily due to a decline in operating income and interest income, net, partially offset by a lower provision for income taxes.
27 TABLE OF CONTENTS FISCAL 2009 AND FISCAL 2008 ITEMS AFFECTING COMPARABILITY OF OUR FINANCIAL RESULTS Non-GAAP Measures The Companys reported results are presented in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP). The reported SG&A expenses, operating income, interest income, net, provision for income taxes, income from continuing operations, net income and earnings per diluted share from continuing operations in both fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2008 reflect certain items which affect the comparability of our results. These metrics are also reported on a non-GAAP basis for these fiscal years to exclude the impact of these items.
These non-GAAP performance measures were used by management to conduct and evaluate its business during its regular review of operating results for the periods affected. Management and the Companys Board utilized these non-GAAP measures to make decisions about the uses of Company resources, analyze performance between periods, develop internal projections and measure management performance. The Companys primary internal financial reporting excluded these items affecting comparability. In addition, the compensation committee of the Companys Board used these non-GAAP measures when setting and assessing achievement of incentive compensation goals.
We believe these non-GAAP measures are useful to investors in evaluating the Companys ongoing operating and financial results and understanding how such results compare with the Companys historical performance. In addition, we believe excluding the items affecting comparability assists investors in developing expectations of future performance. These items affecting comparability do not represent the Companys direct, ongoing business operations. By providing the non-GAAP measures, as a supplement to GAAP information, we believe we are enhancing investors understanding of our business and our results of operations. The non-GAAP financial measures are limited in their usefulness and should be considered in addition to, and not in lieu of, U.S. GAAP financial measures. Further, these non-GAAP measures may be unique to the Company, as they may be different from non-GAAP measures used by other companies.
28 TABLE OF CONTENTS The year-over-year comparisons of our financial results are affected by the following items included in our reported results: Fiscal Year Ended (dollars in millions, except per share data) June 27, 2009 June 28, 2008 Operating income Cost savings measures $ (13.4 ) $  Charitable foundation contribution (15.0 ) (20.0 ) Non-recurring variable expense  (12.1 ) Total Operating income impact $ (28.4 ) $ (32.1 ) Interest Income, net Tax-related interest adjustments $ 2.0 $ 10.7 Total Interest income, net impact $ 2.0 $ 10.7 Provision for income taxes Cost savings measures $ (5.1 ) $  Charitable foundation contribution (5.7 ) (7.8 ) Tax adjustments (16.8 ) (50.0 ) Non-recurring variable expense  (4.7 ) Total Provision for income taxes impact $ (27.6 ) $ (62.5 ) Net income Cost savings measures $ (8.3 ) $  Charitable foundation contribution (9.3 ) (12.2 ) Tax adjustments 18.8 60.6 Non-recurring variable expense  (7.4 ) Total Net income impact $ 1.2 $ 41.0 Diluted earnings per share Cost savings measures $ (0.03 ) $  Charitable foundation contribution (0.03 ) (0.03 ) Tax adjustments 0.06 0.17 Non-recurring variable expense  (0.02 ) Total Diluted earnings per share impact $ 0.00 $ 0.11 Fiscal 2009 Items Cost Savings Measures During the third quarter of fiscal 2009, the Company recorded a charge of $13.4 million, related to cost savings initiatives. These initiatives included the elimination of approximately 150 positions from the Companys corporate offices in New York, New Jersey and Jacksonville, the closure of four underperforming retail stores and the closure of Coach Europe Services, the Companys sample-making facility in Italy. Prior to these cost savings measures in fiscal 2009, the Company had no recent past history of similar elimination of positions, closure of facilities, or closure of underperforming stores during the stores lease terms.
Charitable Contribution and Tax Adjustments During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, the Company decreased the provision for income taxes by $16.8 million and increased interest income by $2.0 million, primarily as a result of a favorable settlement of a multi-year tax return examination and other tax accounting adjustments. The underlying events and circumstances for the tax settlement and adjustments were not related to the fiscal 2008 settlement. The Company used the net income favorability to contribute $15.0 million to the Coach Foundation. The Company believed that in order to reflect the direct results of the normal, ongoing business operations, both the tax 29 TABLE OF CONTENTS adjustments and the resulting foundation funding needed to be adjusted. This exclusion is consistent with the way management views its results and is the basis on which incentive compensation was calculated and paid for fiscal 2009.
Fiscal 2008 Items Charitable Contribution and Tax Adjustments During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008, the Company decreased the provision for income taxes by $50.0 million and increased interest income by $10.7 million, primarily as a result of a favorable settlement of a tax return examination. The underlying events and circumstances for the tax settlement were not related to the fiscal 2009 settlement. The Company used the net income favorability to create the Coach Foundation. The Company recorded an initial contribution to the Coach Foundation in the amount of $20.0 million. The Company believed that in order to reflect the direct results of the business operations as was done for executive management incentive compensation, both the tax adjustments and the resulting foundation funding needed to be adjusted.
Variable Expenses As a result of the higher interest income, net (related to the tax settlements) and lower income tax provision, the Company incurred additional incentive compensation expense of $12.1 million, as a portion of the Companys incentive compensation plan is based on net income and earnings per share. Incremental incentive compensation driven by tax settlements of this magnitude is unlikely to recur in the near future as the Company has modified its incentive compensation plans during fiscal 2009 to be measured exclusive of any unusual accounting adjustments. The Company believes excluding these variable expenses, which were directly linked to the tax settlements, assists investors in evaluating the Companys direct, ongoing business operations.
Currency Fluctuation Effects Percentage increases and decreases in sales in fiscal 2010 and fiscal 2009 for Coach Japan have been presented both including and excluding currency fluctuation effects from translating foreign-denominated sales into U.S. dollars and compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year.
We believe that presenting Coach Japan sales increases and decreases, including and excluding currency fluctuation effects, will help investors and analysts to understand the effect on this valuable performance measure of significant year-over-year currency fluctuations.
FINANCIAL CONDITION Cash Flow Net cash provided by operating activities was $990.9 million in fiscal 2010 compared to $809.2 million in fiscal 2009. The increase of $181.7 million was primarily due to the $111.6 million increase in net income as well as working capital changes between the two periods, the most significant of which occurred in accrued liabilities, accounts payable and inventories. Accrued liabilities provided cash of $68.1 million in fiscal 2010 compared to a cash use of $32.1 million in fiscal 2009, primarily due to higher bonus accruals in the current year, as well as the non-recurrence of a rent accrual reversal that occurred in fiscal 2009 in connection with the purchase of our corporate headquarters building. Accounts payable provided cash of $1.0 million in fiscal 2010, compared to a cash use of $37.0 million in fiscal 2009, due to timing of payments. Changes in inventory balances year over year resulted in a cash use of $33.9 million for fiscal 2010 compared to a cash source of $4.1 million in fiscal 2009, primarily due to higher inventory levels at the current year end to support store expansion domestically and internationally.
Net cash used in investing activities was $182.2 million in fiscal 2010 compared to $264.7 million in fiscal 2009. Purchases of investments and proceeds from their maturities and sales resulted in a net cash outflow in fiscal 2010 of $99.9 million. The company did not have similar investment activity in fiscal 2009. During fiscal 2009 the company used cash of $103.3 million in connection with the purchase of its corporate headquarters building, with no similar transaction occurring in fiscal 2010. Additionally, purchases of property and equipment were $55.9 million lower in the current fiscal year, driven by the timing of certain projects.
30 TABLE OF CONTENTS Net cash used in financing activities was $1,019.9 million in fiscal 2010 as compared to $440.1 million in fiscal 2009. The increase of $579.8 million was primarily attributable to $696.2 million of incremental common stock repurchases and $94.3 million of payments of Company dividends, partially offset by $197.6 million higher cash proceeds from share-based compensation awards during the current fiscal year.
Revolving Credit Facilities On July 26, 2007, the Company renewed its $100 million revolving credit facility with certain lenders and Bank of America, N.A. as the primary lender and administrative agent (the Bank of America facility), extending the facility expiration to July 26, 2012. At Coachs request and lenders consent, the Bank of America facility can be expanded to $200 million. The facility can also be extended for two additional one-year periods, at Coachs request and lenders consent.
Coachs Bank of America facility is available for seasonal working capital requirements or general corporate purposes and may be prepaid without penalty or premium. During fiscal 2010 and fiscal 2009 there were no borrowings under the Bank of America facility. Accordingly, as of July 3, 2010 and June 27, 2009, there were no outstanding borrowings under the Bank of America facility. The Companys borrowing capacity as of July 3, 2010 was $90.0 million, due to outstanding letters of credit.
Coach pays a commitment fee of 6 to 12.5 basis points on any unused amounts and interest of LIBOR plus 20 to 55 basis points on any outstanding borrowings. Both the commitment fee and the LIBOR margin are based on the Companys fixed charge coverage ratio. At July 3, 2010, the commitment fee was 7 basis points and the LIBOR margin was 30 basis points.
The Bank of America facility contains various covenants and customary events of default. Coach has been in compliance with all covenants since its inception.
To provide funding for working capital and general corporate purposes, Coach Japan has available credit facilities with several Japanese financial institutions. These facilities allow a maximum borrowing of 4.1 billion Yen, or approximately $46.7 million, at July 3, 2010. Interest is based on the Tokyo Interbank rate plus a margin of 30 basis points. During fiscal 2010 and fiscal 2009, the peak borrowings under the Japanese credit facilities were $0 million and $14.4 million, respectively. As of July 3, 2010 and June 27, 2009, there were no outstanding borrowings under the Japanese credit facilities.
To provide funding for working capital and general corporate purposes, Coach Shanghai Limited has a credit facility that allows a maximum borrowing of 67 million Renminbi, or approximately $10 million at July 3, 2010. Interest is based on the Peoples Bank of China rate. During both fiscal 2010 and fiscal 2009, the peak borrowings under this credit facility were $7.5 million. At July 3, 2010 and June 27, 2009, there were $0 and $7.5 million outstanding borrowings under this facility.
Common Stock Repurchase Program In April 2010, the Company completed its $1.0 billion common stock repurchase program, which was put into place in August 2008. In April 2010, the Companys Board approved a new common stock repurchase program to acquire up to $1.0 billion of Coachs outstanding common stock through June 2012. Purchases of Coach stock are made from time to time, subject to market conditions and at prevailing market prices, through open market purchases. Repurchased shares become authorized but unissued shares and may be issued in the future for general corporate and other uses. The Company may terminate or limit the stock repurchase program at any time.
During fiscal 2010 and fiscal 2009, the Company repurchased and retired 30.7 million and 20.2 million shares of common stock, respectively, at an average cost of $37.48 and $22.51 per share, respectively. As of July 3, 2010, $559.6 million remained available for future purchases under the existing program.
Liquidity and Capital Resources In fiscal 2010, total capital expenditures were $81.1 million and related primarily to new stores in North America and Japan which accounted for approximately $30.5 million and $4.8 million, respectively, of total capital expenditures. Approximately $9.8 million related to investments in new stores and corporate infrastructure in Hong Kong and mainland China. Spending on department store renovations and distributor 31 TABLE OF CONTENTS locations accounted for approximately $9.2 million of the total capital expenditures. The remaining capital expenditures related to corporate systems and infrastructure. These investments were financed from on hand cash, operating cash flows and by using funds from the revolving credit facility maintained by Coach Shanghai Limited.
For the fiscal year ending July 2, 2011, the Company expects total capital expenditures to be approximately $150 million. Capital expenditures will be primarily for new stores in North America, Japan, Hong Kong, Macau and mainland China. We will also continue to invest in corporate infrastructure and department store and distributor locations. These investments will be financed primarily from on hand cash and operating cash flows.
Coach experiences significant seasonal variations in its working capital requirements. During the first fiscal quarter Coach builds inventory for the holiday selling season, opens new retail stores and generates higher levels of trade receivables. In the second fiscal quarter its working capital requirements are reduced substantially as Coach generates consumer sales and collects wholesale accounts receivable. In fiscal 2010, Coach purchased approximately $1.0 billion of inventory, which was primarily funded by on hand cash and operating cash flows.
Management believes that cash flow from continuing operations and on hand cash will provide adequate funds for the foreseeable working capital needs, planned capital expenditures, dividend payments and the common stock repurchase program. Any future acquisitions, joint ventures or other similar transactions may require additional capital. There can be no assurance that any such capital will be available to Coach on acceptable terms or at all. Coachs ability to fund its working capital needs, planned capital expenditures, dividend payments and scheduled debt payments, as well as to comply with all of the financial covenants under its debt agreements, depends on its future operating performance and cash flow, which in turn are subject to prevailing economic conditions and to financial, business and other factors, some of which are beyond Coachs control.
Commitments At July 3, 2010, the Company had letters of credit available of $275.0 million, of which $147.4 million were outstanding. These letters of credit, which expire at various dates through 2013, primarily collateralize the Companys obligation to third parties for the purchase of inventory.
Contractual Obligations As of July 3, 2010, Coachs long-term contractual obligations are as follows: Payments Due by Period Total Less than 1 Year 13 Years 35 Years More than 5 Years (amounts in millions) Capital expenditure commitments (1) $ 1.6 $ 1.6 $  $  $  Inventory purchase obligations (2) 166.6 166.6    Long-term debt, including the current portion (3) 28.1 1.8 25.3 1.0  Operating leases 922.7 137.9 251.0 205.5 328.3 Total $ 1,119.0 $ 307.9 $ 276.3 $ 206.5 $ 328.3 (1) Represents the Companys legally binding agreements related to capital expenditures.
(2) Represents the Companys legally binding agreements to purchase finished goods.
(3) Amounts presented include interest payment obligations.
The table above excludes the following: amounts included in current liabilities, other than the current portion of long-term debt, in the Consolidated Balance Sheet at July 3, 2010 as these items will be paid within one year; long-term liabilities not requiring cash payments, such as deferred lease incentives; and cash 32 TABLE OF CONTENTS contributions for the Companys pension plans. The Company intends to contribute approximately $0.4 million to its pension plans during the next year. The above table also excludes reserves recorded in accordance with the Financial Accounting Standards Boards (FASB) guidance for accounting for uncertainty in income taxes which has been codified within Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 740, as we are unable to reasonably estimate the timing of future cash flows related to these reserves.
Coach does not have any off-balance-sheet financing or unconsolidated special purpose entities. Coachs risk management policies prohibit the use of derivatives for trading or speculative purposes. The valuation of financial instruments that are marked-to-market are based upon independent third-party sources.
Long-Term Debt Coach is party to an Industrial Revenue Bond related to its Jacksonville, Florida distribution and consumer service facility. This loan has a remaining balance of $2.2 million and bears interest at 4.5%. Principal and interest payments are made semiannually, with the final payment due in 2014.
During fiscal 2009, Coach assumed a mortgage in connection with the purchase of its corporate headquarters building in New York City. This mortgage bears interest at 4.68%. Interest payments are made monthly and principal payments began in July 2009, with the final payment of $21.6 million due in June 2013. As of July 3, 2010, the remaining balance on the mortgage was $22.7 million.
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make estimates and assumptions. Predicting future events is inherently an imprecise activity and, as such, requires the use of judgment. Actual results may vary from estimates in amounts that may be material to the financial statements. The development and selection of the Companys critical accounting policies and estimates are periodically reviewed with the Audit Committee of the Board.
The accounting policies discussed below are considered critical because changes to certain judgments and assumptions inherent in these policies could affect the financial statements. For more information on Coachs accounting policies, please refer to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
Income Taxes The Companys effective tax rate is based on pre-tax income, statutory tax rates, tax laws and regulations, and tax planning strategies available in the various jurisdictions in which Coach operates. Deferred tax assets are reported at net realizable value, as determined by management. Significant management judgment is required in determining the effective tax rate, in evaluating our tax positions and in determining the net realizable value of deferred tax assets. In accordance with ASC 740-10, the Company recognizes the impact of tax positions in the financial statements if those positions will more likely than not be sustained on audit, based on the technical merits of the position. Tax authorities periodically audit the Companys income tax returns. Management believes that our tax filing positions are reasonable and legally supportable. However, in specific cases, various tax authorities may take a contrary position. A change in our tax positions or audit settlements could have a significant impact on our results of operations. For further information about income taxes, see the Income Taxes note presented in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Inventories The Companys inventories are reported at the lower of cost or market. Inventory costs include material, conversion costs, freight and duties and are determined by the first-in, first-out method. The Company reserves for slow-moving and aged inventory based on historical experience, current product demand and expected future demand. A decrease in product demand due to changing customer tastes, buying patterns or increased competition could impact Coachs evaluation of its slow-moving and aged inventory and additional reserves might be required. At July 3, 2010, a 10% change in the reserve for slow-moving and aged inventory would have resulted in an insignificant change in inventory and cost of goods sold.
33 TABLE OF CONTENTS Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets The Company evaluates goodwill and other indefinite life intangible assets annually for impairment. In order to complete our impairment analysis, we must perform a valuation analysis which includes determining the fair value of the Companys reporting units based on discounted cash flows. This analysis contains uncertainties as it requires management to make assumptions and estimate the profitability of future growth strategies. The Company determined that there was no impairment in fiscal 2010, fiscal 2009 or fiscal 2008.
Long-Lived Assets Long-lived assets, such as property and equipment, are evaluated for impairment annually and whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the assets may not be recoverable. The evaluation is based on a review of forecasted operating cash flows and the profitability of the related business. An impairment loss is recognized if the forecasted cash flows are less than the carrying amount of the asset. The Company recorded an impairment loss in fiscal 2009 of $1.5 million related to the closure of three underperforming stores. The Company did not record any impairment losses in fiscal 2010 or fiscal 2008. However, as the determination of future cash flows is based on expected future performance, impairment could result in the future if expectations are not met.
Revenue Recognition Sales are recognized at the point of sale, which occurs when merchandise is sold in an over-the-counter consumer transaction or, for the wholesale channels, upon shipment of merchandise, when title passes to the customer. Revenue associated with gift cards is recognized upon redemption. The Company estimates the amount of gift cards that will not be redeemed and records such amounts as revenue over the period of the performance obligation. Allowances for estimated uncollectible accounts, discounts and returns are provided when sales are recorded based upon historical experience and current trends. Royalty revenues are earned through license agreements with manufacturers of other consumer products that incorporate the Coach brand. Revenue earned under these contracts is recognized based upon reported sales from the licensee. At July 3, 2010, a 10% change in the allowances for estimated uncollectible accounts, discounts and returns would have resulted in an insignificant change in accounts receivable and net sales.
Share-Based Compensation The Company recognizes the cost of employee services received in exchange for awards of equity instruments, such as stock options, based on the grant-date fair value of those awards. The grant-date fair value of stock option awards is determined using the Black-Scholes option pricing model and involves several assumptions, including the expected term of the option, expected volatility and dividend yield. The expected term of options represents the period of time that the options granted are expected to be outstanding and is based on historical experience. Expected volatility is based on historical volatility of the Companys stock as well as the implied volatility from publicly traded options on Coachs stock. Dividend yield is based on the current expected annual dividend per share and the Companys stock price. Changes in the assumptions used to determine the Black-Scholes value could result in significant changes in the Black-Scholes value. However, a 10% change in the Black-Scholes value would result in an insignificant change in fiscal 2010 share-based compensation expense.
Recent Accounting Pronouncements ASC 820-10, Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures , defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value in generally accepted accounting principles and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. The Company adopted the provisions of the standard related to financial assets and liabilities in the first quarter of fiscal 2009. During the first quarter of fiscal 2010, the Company adopted the provisions of the standard related to non-financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis with no material impact on our consolidated financial statements. For further information about the fair value measurements of our financial assets and liabilities see note on Fair Value Measurements.
ASC 820-10 was amended in January 2010 to require additional disclosures related to recurring and nonrecurring fair value measurements. The guidance requires disclosure of transfers of assets and liabilities between Levels 1 and 2 of the fair value hierarchy, including the reasons and the timing of the transfers and 34 TABLE OF CONTENTS information on purchases, sales, issuances, and settlements on a gross basis in the reconciliation of the assets and liabilities measured under Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy. The guidance was effective for the Company beginning on December 27, 2009 and its adoption did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.
ASC 855, Subsequent Events , was amended in February 2010. Under the amended guidance, SEC filers are no longer required to disclose the date through which subsequent events have been evaluated in originally issued and revised financial statements. This guidance was effective immediately and the Company adopted these new requirements for the period ended March 27, 2010, as described in the note on Significant Accounting Policies.
ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in our financial instruments represents the potential loss in fair value, earnings or cash flows arising from adverse changes in interest rates or foreign currency exchange rates. Coach manages these exposures through operating and financing activities and, when appropriate, through the use of derivative financial instruments with respect to Coach Japan and Coach Canada. The use of derivative financial instruments is in accordance with Coachs risk management policies. Coach does not enter into derivative transactions for speculative or trading purposes.
The following quantitative disclosures are based on quoted market prices obtained through independent pricing sources for the same or similar types of financial instruments, taking into consideration the underlying terms and maturities and theoretical pricing models. These quantitative disclosures do not represent the maximum possible loss or any expected loss that may occur, since actual results may differ from those estimates.
Foreign Currency Exchange Foreign currency exposures arise from transactions, including firm commitments and anticipated contracts, denominated in a currency other than the entitys functional currency, and from foreign-denominated revenues and expenses translated into U.S. dollars.
Substantially all of Coachs fiscal 2010 non-licensed product needs were purchased from independent manufacturers in countries other than the United States. These countries include China, Italy, Hong Kong, India, Thailand, Vietnam, Peru, Philippines, Turkey, Ecuador, Great Britain, Macau and Malaysia. Additionally, sales are made through international channels to third party distributors. Substantially all purchases and sales involving international parties, excluding Coach Japan and Coach China, are denominated in U.S. dollars and, therefore, are not subject to foreign currency exchange risk.
In Japan and Canada, Coach is exposed to market risk from foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations resulting from Coach Japan and Coach Canadas U.S. dollar denominated inventory purchases. Coach Japan and Coach Canada enter into certain foreign currency derivative contracts, primarily zero-cost collar options, to manage these risks. As of July 3, 2010 and June 27, 2009, open foreign currency forward contracts designated as hedges with a notional amount of $248.6 million and $32.0 million, respectively, were outstanding.
Coach is also exposed to market risk from foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations with respect to Coach Japan as a result of its $139.4 million U.S. dollar-denominated fixed rate intercompany loan from Coach. To manage this risk, on July 2, 2010, Coach Japan entered into a cross currency swap transaction, the terms of which include an exchange of a Yen fixed interest rate for a U.S. dollar fixed interest rate. The loan matures on June 30, 2011, at which point the swap requires an exchange of Japanese Yen and U.S. dollar based notional values.
The fair value of open foreign currency derivatives included in current assets at July 3, 2010 and June 27, 2009 was $2.1 million and $0, respectively. The fair value of open foreign currency derivatives included in current liabilities at July 3, 2010 and June 27, 2009 was $7.5 million and $37.1 million, respectively. The fair value of these contracts is sensitive to changes in Japanese Yen and Canadian Dollar exchange rates.
35 TABLE OF CONTENTS Coach believes that exposure to adverse changes in exchange rates associated with revenues and expenses of foreign operations, which are denominated in Japanese Yen, Chinese Renminbi, Hong Kong Dollar, Macau Pataca and Canadian Dollars, are not material to the Companys consolidated financial statements.
Interest Rate Coach is exposed to interest rate risk in relation to its investments, revolving credit facilities and long-term debt.
The Companys investment portfolio is maintained in accordance with the Companys investment policy, which identifies allowable investments, specifies credit quality standards and limits the credit exposure of any single issuer. The primary objective of our investment activities is the preservation of principal while maximizing interest income and minimizing risk. We do not hold any investments for trading purposes. The Companys investment portfolio consists of U.S. government and agency securities as well as corporate debt securities. As the Company does not have the intent to sell and will not be required to sell these securities until maturity, investments are classified as held-to-maturity and stated at amortized cost, except for auction rate securities, which are classified as available-for-sale. At July 3, 2010 and June 27, 2009, the Companys investments, classified as held-to-maturity, consisted of commercial paper and treasury bills valued at $99.9 million and $0, on those dates respectively. As the adjusted book value of the commercial paper and treasury bills equals its fair value, there were no unrealized gains or losses associated with these investments. At July 3, 2010, the Companys investments, classified as available-for-sale, consisted of a $6.0 million auction rate security. At July 3, 2010, as the auction rate securities adjusted book value equaled its fair value, there were no unrealized gains or losses associated with these investments.
As of July 3, 2010, the Company had no outstanding borrowings on its Bank of America facility. The fair value of any future borrowings may be impacted by fluctuations in interest rates.
As of July 3, 2010, the Company had no outstanding borrowings on its revolving credit facility maintained by Coach Japan. The fair value of any future borrowings may be impacted by fluctuations in interest rates.
As of July 3, 2010, the Company had no outstanding borrowings on its revolving credit facility maintained by Coach Shanghai Limited. The fair value of any future borrowings may be impacted by fluctuations in interest rates.
As of July 3, 2010, Coachs outstanding long-term debt, including the current portion, was $24.9 million. A hypothetical 10% change in the interest rate applied to the fair value of debt would not have a material impact on earnings or cash flows of Coach.
ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA See Index to Financial Statements, which is located on page 40 of this report.
ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE None.
ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES Disclosure Controls and Procedures Based on the evaluation of the Companys disclosure controls and procedures, as that term is defined in Rule 13a-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, each of Lew Frankfort, the Chief Executive Officer of the Company, and Michael F. Devine, III, the Chief Financial Officer of the Company, has concluded that the Companys disclosure controls and procedures are effective as of July 3, 2010.
Managements Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting The Companys management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal controls over financial reporting. The Companys internal control system was designed to provide reasonable assurance 36 TABLE OF CONTENTS to the Companys management and Board regarding the preparation and fair presentation of published financial statements. Management evaluated the effectiveness of the Companys internal control over financial reporting using the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations (COSO) of the Treadway Commission in Internal Control-Integrated Framework. Management, under the supervision and with the participation of the Companys Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, assessed the effectiveness of the Companys internal control over financial reporting as of July 3, 2010 and concluded that it is effective.
The Companys independent auditors have issued an audit report on the Companys internal control over financial reporting. The audit report appears on page 41 of this report.
Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting There were no changes in internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the fourth fiscal quarter that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, the Companys internal control over financial reporting.
ITEM 9B. OTHER INFORMATION None.
37 TABLE OF CONTENTS PART III ITEM 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The information set forth in the Proxy Statement for the 2010 Annual Meeting of Stockholders is incorporated herein by reference. The Proxy Statement will be filed with the Commission within 120 days after the end of the fiscal year covered by this Form 10-K pursuant to Regulation 14A under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION The information set forth in the Proxy Statement for the 2010 Annual Meeting of Stockholders is incorporated herein by reference. The Proxy Statement will be filed with the Commission within 120 days after the end of the fiscal year covered by this Form 10-K pursuant to Regulation 14A under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS (a) Security ownership of management set forth in the Proxy Statement for the 2010 Annual Meeting of Stockholders is incorporated herein by reference.
(b) There are no arrangements known to the registrant that may at a subsequent date result in a change in control of the registrant.
The Proxy Statement will be filed with the Commission within 120 days after the end of the fiscal year covered by this Form 10-K pursuant to Regulation 14A under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE The information set forth in the Proxy Statement for the 2010 Annual Meeting of Stockholders is incorporated herein by reference. The Proxy Statement will be filed with the Commission within 120 days after the end of the fiscal year covered by this Form 10-K pursuant to Regulation 14A under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to the section entitled Matters Relating to Coachs Independent Auditors in the Proxy Statement for the 2010 Annual Meeting of Stockholders. The Proxy Statement will be filed with the Commission within 120 days after the end of the fiscal year covered by this Form 10-K pursuant to Regulation 14A under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
PART IV ITEM 15. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES (a) Financial Statements and Financial Statement Schedules See Index to Financial Statements which is located on page 40 of this report.
(b) Exhibits. See the exhibit index which is included herein.
38 TABLE OF CONTENTS SIGNATURES Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
COACH, INC.
Date: August 25, 2010 By: /s/ Lew Frankfort Name: Lew Frankfort Title: Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities indicated below on August 25, 2010.
Signature Title /s/ Lew Frankfort Lew Frankfort Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Director /s/ Jerry Stritzke Jerry Stritzke President, Chief Operating Officer /s/ Michael F. Devine, III Michael F. Devine, III Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (as principal financial officer and principal accounting officer of Coach) /s/ Susan Kropf Susan Kropf Director /s/ Gary Loveman Gary Loveman Director /s/ Ivan Menezes Ivan Menezes Director /s/ Irene Miller Irene Miller Director /s/ Michael Murphy Michael Murphy Director /s/ Jide Zeitlin Jide Zeitlin Director 39 TABLE OF CONTENTS UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D.C. 20549 FORM 10-K FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the Fiscal Year Ended July 3, 2010 COACH, INC.
New York, New York 10001 INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Page Number Reports of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 41 Consolidated Balance SheetsAt July 3, 2010 and June 27, 2009 43 Consolidated Statements of IncomeFor Fiscal Years Ended July 3, 2010, June 27, 2009 and June 28, 2008 44 Consolidated Statements of Stockholders EquityFor Fiscal Years Ended July 3, 2010, June 27, 2009 and June 28, 2008 45 Consolidated Statements of Cash FlowsFor Fiscal Years Ended July 3, 2010, June 27, 2009 and June 28, 2008 46 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 47 Financial Statement Schedules for the years ended July 3, 2010, June 27, 2009 and June 28, 2008: Schedule IIValuation and Qualifying Accounts 69 All other schedules are omitted because they are not applicable or the required information is shown in the consolidated financial statements or notes thereto.
40 TABLE OF CONTENTS REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of Coach, Inc.
New York, New York We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Coach, Inc. and subsidiaries (the Company) as of July 3, 2010 and June 27, 2009, and the related consolidated statements of income, stockholders equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended July 3, 2010. Our audits also included the financial statement schedule listed in the Index at Item 15. These financial statements and financial statement schedule are the responsibility of the Companys management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements and financial statement schedule based on our audits.
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
In our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of the Company at July 3, 2010 and June 27, 2009, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended July 3, 2010, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Also, in our opinion, such financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein.
We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the Companys internal control over financial reporting as of July 3, 2010, based on the criteria established in Internal ControlIntegrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our report dated August 25, 2010 expressed an unqualified opinion on the Companys internal control over financial reporting.
/s/ Deloitte & Touche LLP New York, New York August 25, 2010 41 TABLE OF CONTENTS REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of Coach, Inc.
New York, New York We have audited the internal control over financial reporting of Coach, Inc. and subsidiaries (the Company) as of July 3, 2010 based on criteria established in Internal ControlIntegrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. The Companys management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying Managements Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Companys internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.
We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
A companys internal control over financial reporting is a process designed by, or under the supervision of, the companys principal executive and principal financial officers, or persons performing similar functions, and effected by the companys board of directors, management, and other personnel to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A companys internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the companys assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Because of the inherent limitations of internal control over financial reporting, including the possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Also, projections of any evaluation of the effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
In our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of July 3, 2010, based on the criteria established in Internal ControlIntegrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.
We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedule as of and for the year ended July 3, 2010 of the Company and our report dated August 25, 2010 expressed an unqualified opinion on those consolidated financial statements and consolidated financial statement schedule.
/s/ Deloitte & Touche LLP New York, New York August 25, 2010 42 TABLE OF CONTENTS COACH, INC.
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (amounts in thousands, except share data) July 3, 2010 June 27, 2009 ASSETS Current Assets: Cash and cash equivalents $ 596,470 $ 800,362 Short-term investments 99,928  Trade accounts receivable, less allowances of $6,965 and $6,347, respectively 109,068 108,707 Inventories 363,285 326,148 Deferred income taxes 77,355 49,476 Prepaid expenses 30,375 48,342 Other current assets 26,160 63,374 Total current assets 1,302,641 1,396,409 Long-term investments 6,000 6,000 Property and equipment, net 548,474 592,982 Goodwill 305,861 283,387 Intangible assets 9,788 9,788 Deferred income taxes 156,465 159,092 Other assets 137,886 116,678 Total assets $ 2,467,115 $ 2,564,336 LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS EQUITY Current Liabilities: Accounts payable $ 105,569 $ 103,029 Accrued liabilities 422,725 348,619 Revolving credit facilities  7,496 Current portion of long-term debt 742 508 Total current liabilities 529,036 459,652 Long-term debt 24,159 25,072 Other liabilities 408,627 383,570 Total liabilities 961,822 868,294 See note on commitments and contingencies Stockholders Equity: Preferred stock: (authorized 25,000,000 shares; $0.01 par value) none issued   Common stock: (authorized 1,000,000,000 shares; $0.01 par value) issued and outstanding296,867,247 and 318,006,466, respectively 2,969 3,180 Additional paid-in-capital 1,502,982 1,189,060 (Accumulated deficit) retained earnings (30,053 ) 499,951 Accumulated other comprehensive income 29,395 3,851 Total stockholders equity 1,505,293 1,696,042 Total liabilities and stockholders equity $ 2,467,115 $ 2,564,336 See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
43 TABLE OF CONTENTS COACH, INC.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME (amounts in thousands, except per share data) Fiscal Year Ended July 3, 2010 June 27, 2009 June 28, 2008 Net sales $ 3,607,636 $ 3,230,468 $ 3,180,757 Cost of sales 973,945 907,858 773,654 Gross profit 2,633,691 2,322,610 2,407,103 Selling, general and administrative expenses 1,483,520 1,350,697 1,259,974 Operating income 1,150,171 971,913 1,147,129 Interest income, net 1,757 5,168 47,820 Income before provision for income taxes and discontinued operations 1,151,928 977,081 1,194,949 Provision for income taxes 416,988 353,712 411,910 Income from continuing operations 734,940 623,369 783,039 Income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes (See note on discontinued operations)   16 Net income $ 734,940 $ 623,369 $ 783,055 Net income per share Basic Continuing operations $ 2.36 $ 1.93 $ 2.20 Discontinued operations   0.00 Net income $ 2.36 $ 1.93 $ 2.20 Diluted Continuing operations $ 2.33 $ 1.91 $ 2.17 Discontinued operations   0.00 Net income $ 2.33 $ 1.91 $ 2.17 Shares used in computing net income per share Basic 311,413 323,714 355,731 Diluted 315,848 325,620 360,332 See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
44 TABLE OF CONTENTS COACH, INC.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS EQUITY (amounts in thousands) Shares of Common Stock Preferred Stock Common Stock Additional Paid-in- Capital Retained Earnings/ (Accumulated Deficit) Accumulated Other Comprehensive (Loss)/Income Total Stockholders Equity Balances at June 30, 2007 372,521 $  $ 3,725 $ 978,664 $ 917,930 $ (11,820 ) $ 1,888,499 Net income     783,055  783,055 Unrealized gains on cash flow hedging derivatives, net of tax      5,782 5,782 Translation adjustments      24,373 24,373 Change in pension liability, net of tax      510 510 Comprehensive income 813,720 Shares issued for stock options and employee benefit plans 3,896  39 83,281   83,320 Share-based compensation    66,979   66,979 Adjustment to adopt guidance on uncertain tax positions     (48,797 )  (48,797 ) Excess tax benefit from share-based compensation    23,253   23,253 Repurchase and retirement of common stock (39,688 )  (397 ) (37,136 ) (1,299,066 )  (1,336,599 ) Balances at June 28, 2008 336,729  3,367 1,115,041 353,122 18,845 1,490,375 Net income     623,369  623,369 Unrealized losses on cash flow hedging derivatives, net of tax      (7,278 ) (7,278 ) Translation adjustments      (5,298 ) (5,298 ) Change in pension liability, net of tax      (1,368 ) (1,368 ) Comprehensive income 609,425 Cumulative effect of adoption of ASC 320-10-35-17 (see note on Fair Value Measurements)     1,072 (1,072 )  Shares issued for stock options and employee benefit plans 1,436  15 7,348   7,363 Share-based compensation    67,542   67,542 Tax deficit from share-based compensation    (871 )   (871 ) Repurchase and retirement of common stock (20,159 )  (202 )  (453,584 )  (453,786 ) Adjustment to adopt ASC 715 measurement date provision, net of tax     (183 ) 22 (161 ) Dividends declared     (23,845 )  (23,845 ) Balances at June 27, 2009 318,006  3,180 1,189,060 499,951 3,851 1,696,042 Net income     734,940  734,940 Unrealized losses on cash flow hedging derivatives, net of tax      (1,757 ) (1,757 ) Translation adjustments      27,464 27,464 Change in pension liability, net of tax      (163 ) (163 ) Comprehensive income 760,484 Shares issued for stock options and employee benefit plans 9,547  96 204,886   204,982 Share-based compensation    81,420   81,420 Excess tax benefit from share-based compensation    27,616   27,616 Repurchase and retirement of common stock (30,686 )  (307 )  (1,149,691 )  (1,149,998 ) Dividends declared     (115,253 )  (115,253 ) Balances at July 3, 2010 296,867 $  $ 2,969 $ 1,502,982 $ (30,053 ) $ 29,395 $ 1,505,293 See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
45 TABLE OF CONTENTS COACH, INC.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (amounts in thousands) Fiscal Year Ended July 3, 2010 June 27, 2009 June 28, 2008 CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES Net income $ 734,940 $ 623,369 $ 783,055 Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash from operating activities: Depreciation and amortization 126,744 123,014 100,704 Provision for bad debt (698 ) 909 286 Share-based compensation 81,420 67,542 66,979 Excess tax (benefit) deficit from share-based compensation (27,616 ) 871 (23,253 ) Deferred income taxes (17,129 ) 13,660 (16,907 ) Other noncash (charges) and credits, net (10,449 ) 10,151 6,845 Changes in operating assets and liabilities: Decrease in trade accounts receivable 4,344 3,309 8,213 (Increase) decrease in inventories (33,878 ) 4,070 (32,080 ) Decrease (increase) in other assets 35,640 31,155 (94,535 ) Increase in other liabilities 28,477 211 28,529 Increase (decrease) in accounts payable 1,019 (37,017 ) 20,423 Increase (decrease) in accrued liabilities 68,063 (32,092 ) 75,102 Net cash provided by operating activities 990,877 809,152 923,361 CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES Acquisition of distributor (1,200 ) (24,400 )  Purchases of property and equipment (81,116 ) (137,029 ) (174,720 ) Purchase of corporate headquarters building  (103,300 )  Purchases of investments (229,860 )  (162,300 ) Proceeds from sales and maturities of investments 129,932  782,460 Net cash (used in) provided by investing activities (182,244 ) (264,729 ) 445,440 CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES Dividend payments (94,324 )   Repurchase of common stock (1,149,998 ) (453,786 ) (1,336,599 ) Repayment of long-term debt (679 ) (285 ) (235 ) (Repayments) borrowings on revolving credit facility, net (7,496 ) 7,496  Proceeds from share-based awards, net 204,982 7,363 83,320 Excess tax benefit (deficit) from share-based compensation 27,616 (871 ) 23,253 Net cash used in financing activities (1,019,899 ) (440,083 ) (1,230,261 ) Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 7,374 (2,883 ) 3,409 (Decrease) increase in cash and cash equivalents (203,892 ) 101,457 141,949 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 800,362 698,905 556,956 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year $ 596,470 $ 800,362 $ 698,905 Supplemental information: Cash paid for income taxes $ 364,156 $ 336,091 $ 463,687 Cash paid for interest $ 1,499 $ 2,014 $ 1,171 Noncash investing activityproperty and equipment obligations $ 16,526 $ 20,520 $ 44,260 Noncash financing activitymortgage debt assumed $  $ 23,000 $  See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
46 TABLE OF CONTENTS COACH, INC.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (dollars and shares in thousands, except per share data) 1. NATURE OF OPERATIONS Coach, Inc. (the Company) designs and markets high-quality, modern American classic accessories. The Companys primary product offerings, manufactured by third-party suppliers, include handbags, womens and mens accessories, footwear, business cases, jewelry, wearables, sunwear, travel bags, fragrance and watches. Coachs products are sold through the Direct-to-Consumer segment, which includes Company-operated stores in North America, Japan, Hong Kong, Macau and mainland China, the Internet and the Coach catalog, and through the Indirect segment, which includes sales to wholesale customers and distributors in over 20 countries, including the United States, and royalties earned on licensed products.
2. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Fiscal Year The Companys fiscal year ends on the Saturday closest to June 30. Unless otherwise stated, references to years in the financial statements relate to fiscal years. The fiscal year ended July 3, 2010 (fiscal 2010) was a 53-week period. The fiscal years ended June 27, 2009 (fiscal 2009) and June 28, 2008 (fiscal 2008) were each 52-week periods. The fiscal year ending July 2, 2011 (fiscal 2011) will be a 52-week period.
Use of Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements as well as the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. The level of uncertainty in estimates and assumptions increases with the length of time until the underlying transactions are completed. Actual results could differ from estimates in amounts that may be material to the financial statements.
Principles of Consolidation The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and all 100% owned subsidiaries. All significant intercompany transactions and balances are eliminated in consolidation.
Cash and Cash Equivalents Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash balances and highly liquid investments with a maturity of three months or less at the date of purchase.
Investments Investments consist of U.S. government and agency debt securities as well as municipal government and corporate debt securities. Long-term investments are classified as available-for-sale and recorded at fair value, with unrealized gains and losses recorded in other comprehensive income. Dividend and interest income are recognized when earned.
Short-term investments consist of commercial paper and treasury bills, the adjusted book value of the commercial paper and treasury bills equals its fair value. As the Company does not have the intent to sell and will not be required to sell these securities until maturity, investments are classified as held-to-maturity and stated at amortized cost.
Concentration of Credit Risk Financial instruments that potentially expose Coach to concentration of credit risk consist primarily of cash and cash equivalents, investments and accounts receivable. The Company places its cash investments with high-credit quality financial institutions and currently invests primarily in U.S. government and agency debt securities, municipal government and corporate debt securities, and money market funds placed with 47 TABLE OF CONTENTS COACH, INC.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (dollars and shares in thousands, except per share data) 2. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued) major banks and financial institutions. Accounts receivable is generally diversified due to the number of entities comprising Coachs customer base and their dispersion across many geographical regions. The Company believes no significant concentration of credit risk exists with respect to these cash investments and accounts receivable.
Inventories Inventories consist primarily of finished goods and are valued at the lower of cost (determined by the first-in, first-out method) or market. Inventory costs include material, conversion costs, freight and duties.
Property and Equipment Property and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation. Depreciation is calculated on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the assets. Buildings are depreciated over 40 years. Machinery and equipment are depreciated over lives of five to seven years and furniture and fixtures are depreciated over lives of three to five years. Leasehold improvements are amortized over the shorter of their estimated useful lives or the related lease terms. Maintenance and repair costs are charged to earnings as incurred while expenditures for major renewals and improvements are capitalized. Upon the disposition of property and equipment, the cost and related accumulated depreciation are removed from the accounts.
Operating Leases The Companys leases for office space, retail stores and the distribution facility are accounted for as operating leases. The majority of the Companys lease agreements provide for tenant improvement allowances, rent escalation clauses and/or contingent rent provisions. Tenant improvement allowances are recorded as a deferred lease credit on the balance sheet and amortized over the lease term, which is consistent with the amortization period for the constructed assets. Rent expense is recorded when the Company takes possession of a store to begin its buildout, which generally occurs before the stated commencement of the lease term and is approximately 60 to 90 days prior to the opening of the store.
Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets Goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets are evaluated for impairment annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the asset might be impaired. The Company performed an impairment evaluation in fiscal 2010, fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2008 and concluded that there was no impairment of its goodwill or indefinite life intangible assets.
Valuation of Long-Lived Assets Long-lived assets, such as property and equipment, are evaluated for impairment annually and whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the assets may not be recoverable. The evaluation is based on a review of forecasted operating cash flows and the profitability of the related business. An impairment loss is recognized if the forecasted cash flows are less than the carrying amount of the asset. The Company performed an impairment evaluation in fiscal 2010, fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2008 and concluded that there was no impairment of its long-lived assets for stores expected to remain open. The Company recorded an impairment charge of $1,500 in fiscal 2009 related to the closure of three underperforming stores.
Stock Repurchase and Retirement Coach accounts for stock repurchases and retirements by allocating the repurchase price to common stock, additional paid-in-capital and retained earnings. The repurchase price allocation is based upon the equity contribution associated with historical issuances, beginning with the earliest issuance. Under Maryland law, Coachs state of incorporation, treasury shares are not allowed. As a result, all repurchased shares are retired when acquired. During the second quarter of fiscal 2008, the Companys total cumulative stock 48 TABLE OF CONTENTS COACH, INC.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (dollars and shares in thousands, except per share data) 2. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued) repurchases exceeded the total shares issued in connection with the Companys October 2000 initial public offering, and stock repurchases in excess of this amount are assumed to be made from the Companys April 2001 Sara Lee exchange offer. Shares issued in connection with this exchange offer were accounted for as a contribution to common stock and retained earnings. Therefore, stock repurchases and retirements associated with the exchange offer are accounted for by allocation of the repurchase price to common stock and retained earnings. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010, cumulative stock repurchases allocated to retained earnings have resulted in an accumulated deficit balance. Since its initial public offering, the Company has not experienced a net loss in any fiscal year, and the net accumulated deficit balance in stockholders equity is attributable to the cumulative stock repurchase activity. The total cumulative amount of common stock repurchase price allocated to retained earnings as of July 3, 2010 was approximately $4,000,000.
Revenue Recognition Sales are recognized at the point of sale, which occurs when merchandise is sold in an over-the-counter consumer transaction or, for the wholesale channels, upon shipment of merchandise, when title passes to the customer. Revenue associated with gift cards is recognized upon redemption. The Company estimates the amount of gift cards that will not be redeemed and records such amounts as revenue over the period of the performance obligation. Allowances for estimated uncollectible accounts, discounts and returns are provided when sales are recorded. Royalty revenues are earned through license agreements with manufacturers of other consumer products that incorporate the Coach brand. Revenue earned under these contracts is recognized based upon reported sales from the licensee. Taxes collected from customers and remitted to governmental authorities are recorded on a net basis and therefore are excluded from revenue.
Cost of Sales Cost of sales consists of cost of merchandise, inbound freight and duty expenses, and other inventory-related costs such as shrinkage, damages, replacements and production overhead.
Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses are comprised of four categories: (1) selling; (2) advertising, marketing and design; (3) distribution and consumer service; and (4) administrative. Selling expenses include store employee compensation, store occupancy costs, store supply costs, wholesale account administration compensation and all Coach Japan and Coach China operating expenses. Advertising, marketing and design expenses include employee compensation, media space and production, advertising agency fees, new product design costs, public relations, market research expenses and mail order costs. Distribution and consumer service expenses include warehousing, order fulfillment, shipping and handling, customer service and bag repair costs. Administrative expenses include compensation costs for the executive, finance, human resources, legal and information systems departments, corporate headquarters occupancy costs, and consulting and software expenses.
Preopening Costs Costs associated with the opening of new stores are expensed in the period incurred.
Advertising Advertising costs include expenses related to direct marketing activities, such as catalogs, as well as media and production costs. In fiscal 2010, fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2008, advertising expenses totaled $61,241, $50,078 and $57,380, respectively, and are included in selling, general and administrative expenses. Advertising costs are expensed when the advertising first appears.
49 TABLE OF CONTENTS COACH, INC.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (dollars and shares in thousands, except per share data) 2. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued) Share-Based Compensation The Company measures the cost of employee services received in exchange for an award of equity instruments based on the grant-date fair value of the award. The grant-date fair value of the award is recognized as compensation expense over the vesting period.
Shipping and Handling Shipping and handling costs incurred were $22,661, $26,142 and $28,433 in fiscal 2010, fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2008, respectively, and are included in selling, general and administrative expenses.
Income Taxes The Company accounts for income taxes in accordance with Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 740, Income Taxes . Under ASC 740, a deferred tax liability or asset is recognized for the estimated future tax consequences of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and their respective tax bases. In evaluating the unrecognized tax benefits associated with the Companys various tax filing positions, management records these positions using a more-likely-than-not recognition threshold for income tax positions taken or expected to be taken in accordance with ASC 740. The Company classifies interest and penalties, if present, on uncertain tax positions in interest expense.
Fair Value of Financial Instruments As of July 3, 2010 and June 27, 2009, the carrying values of cash and cash equivalents, trade accounts receivable, accounts payable and accrued liabilities approximated their values due to the short-term maturities of these accounts. The Company has evaluated its Industrial Revenue Bond and mortgage and believes, based on the interest rates, related terms and maturities, that the fair values of such instruments approximate their carrying amounts. See note on Fair Value Measurements for the fair values of the Companys investments as of July 3, 2010 and June 27, 2009.
Coach Japan and Coach Canada enter into foreign currency contracts that hedge certain U.S. dollar-denominated inventory purchases. Additionally, Coach Japan entered into a cross-currency swap transaction to hedge its fixed rate U.S. dollar denominated intercompany loan. These contracts qualify for hedge accounting and have been designated as cash flow hedges. The fair value of these contracts is recorded in other comprehensive income and recognized in earnings in the period in which the hedged item is also recognized in earnings. The fair value of the foreign currency derivative is based on its market value. Considerable judgment is required of management in developing estimates of fair value. The use of different market assumptions or methodologies could affect the estimated fair value.
Foreign Currency The functional currency of the Companys foreign operations is generally the applicable local currency. Assets and liabilities are translated into U.S. dollars using the current exchange rates in effect at the balance sheet date, while revenues and expenses are translated at the weighted-average exchange rates for the period. The resulting translation adjustments are recorded as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) within stockholders equity.
Net Income Per Share Basic net income per share is calculated by dividing net income by the weighted-average number of shares outstanding during the period. Diluted net income per share is calculated similarly but includes potential dilution from the exercise of stock options and vesting of stock awards.
Subsequent Event Evaluation The Company evaluated subsequent events through the date these financial statements were issued, and concluded there were no events to recognize or disclose.
50 TABLE OF CONTENTS COACH, INC.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (dollars and shares in thousands, except per share data) 2. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued) Recent Accounting Pronouncements ASC 820-10, Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures , defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value in generally accepted accounting principles and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. The Company adopted the provisions of the standard related to financial assets and liabilities in the first quarter of fiscal 2009. During the first quarter of fiscal 2010, the Company adopted the provisions of the standard related to non-financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis with no material impact on our consolidated financial statements. For further information about the fair value measurements of our financial assets and liabilities, see note on Fair Value Measurements.
ASC 820-10 was amended in January 2010 to require additional disclosures related to recurring and nonrecurring fair value measurements. The guidance requires disclosure of transfers of assets and liabilities between Levels 1 and 2 of the fair value hierarchy, including the reasons and the timing of the transfers and information on purchases, sales, issuances, and settlements on a gross basis in the reconciliation of the assets and liabilities measured under Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy. The guidance was effective for the Company beginning on December 27, 2009 and its adoption did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.
ASC 855, Subsequent Events , was amended in February 2010. Under the amended guidance, SEC filers are no longer required to disclose the date through which subsequent events have been evaluated in originally issued and revised financial statements. This guidance was effective immediately and the Company adopted these new requirements for the period ended March 27, 2010, as described in the preceding section, Subsequent Event Evaluation.
3. ACQUISITIONS On September 1, 2008, Coach acquired 100% of its domestic retail businesses in Hong Kong and Macau and on April 1, 2009, acquired 100% of its domestic retail business in mainland China from the former distributor, the ImagineX group. The results of the acquired businesses have been included in the consolidated financial statements since September 1, 2008 and April 1, 2009, respectively, within the Direct-to-Consumer segment. These acquisitions will provide the Company with greater control over the brand in Hong Kong, Macau and mainland China, enabling Coach to raise brand awareness and aggressively grow market share with the Chinese consumer.
The aggregate purchase price of the Hong Kong, Macau and mainland China businesses was $25,600, of which $24,400 was paid during fiscal 2009 and $1,200 was paid during fiscal 2010. The following table summarizes the fair values of the assets acquired at the dates of acquisition: Assets Acquired Fair Value of Hong Kong and Macau (1) Fair Value of Mainland China (2) Total Current assets $ 5,099 $ 4,868 $ 9,967 Fixed assets 3,555 3,525 7,080 Other assets 2,299  2,299 Goodwill 3,554 2,700 6,254 Total assets acquired $ 14,507 $ 11,093 $ 25,600 (1) Fair value as of the acquisition date of September 1, 2008 (2) Fair value as of the acquisition date of April 1, 2009 51 TABLE OF CONTENTS COACH, INC.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (dollars and shares in thousands, except per share data) 3. ACQUISITIONS (continued) Prior to these acquisitions, the ImagineX group operated eight retail and department store locations in Hong Kong, two retail locations in Macau, and 15 retail locations in mainland China. The strength of the going concern and the established locations supported a premium above the fair value of the individual assets acquired. Unaudited pro forma information related to these acquisitions is not included as the impact of these transactions is not material to the consolidated results of the Company.
4. SHARE-BASED COMPENSATION The Company maintains several share-based compensation plans which are more fully described below. The following table shows the total compensation cost charged against income for these plans and the related tax benefits recognized in the income statement: Fiscal Year Ended July 3, 2010 June 27, 2009 June 28, 2008 Share-based compensation expense $ 81,420 $ 67,542 $ 66,979 Income tax benefit related to share-based compensation expense 28,446 23,920 24,854 Coach Stock-Based Plans Coach maintains the 2000 Stock Incentive Plan, the 2000 Non-Employee Director Stock Plan and the 2004 Stock Incentive Plan to award stock options and shares to certain members of Coach management and the outside members of its Board of Directors (Board). These plans were approved by Coachs stockholders. The exercise price of each stock option equals 100% of the market price of Coachs stock on the date of grant and generally has a maximum term of 10 years. Stock options and share awards that are granted as part of the annual compensation process generally vest ratably over three years. Other stock option and share awards, granted primarily for retention purposes, are subject to forfeiture until completion of the vesting period, which ranges from one to five years. The Company issues new shares upon the exercise of stock options, vesting of share units and employee stock purchase.
For options granted under Coachs stock option plans prior to July 1, 2003, an active employee can receive a replacement stock option equal to the number of shares surrendered upon a stock-for-stock exercise. The exercise price of the replacement option equals 100% of the market value at the date of exercise of the original option and will remain exercisable for the remaining term of the original option. Replacement stock options generally vest six months from the grant date. No replacement stock options were granted in fiscal 2010 or fiscal 2009 and 16 were granted in fiscal 2008.
52 TABLE OF CONTENTS COACH, INC.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (dollars and shares in thousands, except per share data) 4. SHARE-BASED COMPENSATION (continued) Stock Options A summary of option activity under the Coach stock option plans as of July 3, 2010 and changes during the year then ended is as follows: Number of Options Outstanding Weighted- Average Exercise Price Weighted- Average Remaining Contractual Term (in years) Aggregate Intrinsic Value Outstanding at June 27, 2009 31,287 $ 29.12 Granted 3,818 29.93 Exercised (8,871 ) 23.55 Forfeited or expired (1,329 ) 35.88 Outstanding at July 3, 2010 24,905 30.87 5.7 $ 159,470 Vested or expected to vest at July 3, 2010 24,836 30.87 5.6 159,110 Exercisable at July 3, 2010 15,473 31.09 4.3 101,283 The fair value of each Coach option grant is estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option pricing model and the following weighted-average assumptions: Fiscal Year Ended July 3, 2010 June 27, 2009 June 28, 2008 Expected term (years) 3.0 3.0 2.6 Expected volatility 49.4 % 44.7 % 32.9 % Risk-free interest rate 1.7 % 2.7 % 4.2 % Dividend yield 1.0 % 0.0 %  % The expected term of options represents the period of time that the options granted are expected to be outstanding and is based on historical experience. Expected volatility is based on historical volatility of the Companys stock as well as the implied volatility from publicly traded options on Coachs stock. The risk free interest rate is based on the zero-coupon U.S. Treasury issue as of the date of the grant. Grants subsequent to the Companys April 2009 Board approval to initiate a quarterly dividend included a dividend yield assumption based on Coachs annual expected dividend divided by the grant-date share price. As Coach did not pay dividends during fiscal 2008, there was no dividend yield.
The weighted-average grant-date fair value of options granted during fiscal 2010, fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2008 was $9.68, $8.36 and $10.74, respectively. The total intrinsic value of options exercised during fiscal 2010, fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2008 was $127,879, $11,495 and $65,922, respectively. The total cash received from option exercises was $208,919, $9,382 and $89,356 in fiscal 2010, fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2008, respectively, and the actual tax benefit realized for the tax deductions from these option exercises was $47,795, $4,427 and $25,610, respectively.
At July 3, 2010, $46,544 of total unrecognized compensation cost related to non-vested stock option awards is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 1.0 year.
53 TABLE OF CONTENTS COACH, INC.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (dollars and shares in thousands, except per share data) 4. SHARE-BASED COMPENSATION (continued) Share Units The grant-date fair value of each Coach share unit is equal to the fair value of Coach stock at the grant date. The weighted-average grant-date fair value of shares granted during fiscal 2010, fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2008 was $30.55, $24.62 and $40.47, respectively. The following table summarizes information about non-vested shares as of and for the year ended July 3, 2010: Number of Non-Vested Shares Weighted- Average Grant-Date Fair Value Nonvested at June 27, 2009 2,583 $ 29.36 Granted 2,184 30.55 Vested (768 ) 31.99 Forfeited (219 ) 31.03 Nonvested at July 3, 2010 3,780 29.40 The total fair value of shares vested during fiscal 2010, fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2008 was $23,955, $15,859 and $18,225, respectively. At July 3, 2010, $59,735 of total unrecognized compensation cost related to non-vested share awards is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 1.1 years.
Employee Stock Purchase Plan Under the Employee Stock Purchase Plan, full-time Coach employees are permitted to purchase a limited number of Coach common shares at 85% of market value. Under this plan, Coach sold 176, 268 and 155 new shares to employees in fiscal 2010, fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2008, respectively. Compensation expense is calculated for the fair value of employees purchase rights using the Black-Scholes model and the following weighted-average assumptions: Fiscal Year Ended July 3, 2010 June 27, 2009 June 28, 2008 Expected term (years) 0.5 0.5 0.5 Expected volatility 57.6 % 64.7 % 28.4 % Risk-free interest rate 0.2 % 1.1 % 4.1 % Dividend yield 1.0 %  %  % The weighted-average fair value of the purchase rights granted during fiscal 2010, fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2008 was $9.15, $8.42 and $10.26, respectively.
Deferred Compensation Under the Coach, Inc. Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors, Coachs outside directors may defer their directors fees. Amounts deferred under these plans may, at the participants election, be either represented by deferred stock units, which represent the right to receive shares of Coach common stock on the distribution date elected by the participant, or placed in an interest-bearing account to be paid on such distribution date. The amounts accrued under these plans at July 3, 2010 and June 27, 2009 were $2,980 and $2,480, respectively, and are included within total liabilities in the consolidated balance sheets.
54 TABLE OF CONTENTS COACH, INC.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (dollars and shares in thousands, except per share data) 5. LEASES Coach leases certain office, distribution and retail facilities. The lease agreements, which expire at various dates through 2028, are subject, in some cases, to renewal options and provide for the payment of taxes, insurance and maintenance. Certain leases contain escalation clauses resulting from the pass-through of increases in operating costs, property taxes and the effect on costs from changes in consumer price indices. Certain rentals are also contingent upon factors such as sales.
Rent-free periods and scheduled rent increases are recorded as components of rent expense on a straight-line basis over the related terms of such leases. Contingent rentals are recognized when the achievement of the target (i.e., sales levels), which triggers the related payment, is considered probable. Rent expense for the Companys operating leases consisted of the following: Fiscal Year Ended July 3, 2010 June 27, 2009 June 28, 2008 Minimum rentals $ 121,563 $ 107,272 $ 92,675 Contingent rentals 59,806 43,995 40,294 Total rent expense $ 181,369 $ 151,267 $ 132,969 Future minimum rental payments under noncancelable operating leases are as follows: Fiscal Year Amount 2011 $ 137,884 2012 131,457 2013 119,577 2014 109,703 2015 95,845 Subsequent to 2015 328,274 Total minimum future rental payments $ 922,740 Certain operating leases provide for renewal for periods of five to ten years at their fair rental value at the time of renewal. In the normal course of business, operating leases are generally renewed or replaced by new leases.
6. FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS The Company adopted the provisions of the ASC 820-10, Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures , related to financial assets and liabilities in the first quarter of fiscal 2009. During the first quarter of fiscal 2010, the Company adopted the provisions of the standard related to non-financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis with no material impact on our consolidated financial statements. In accordance with ASC 820-10, the Company categorized its assets and liabilities, based on the priority of the inputs to the valuation technique, into a three-level fair value hierarchy as set forth below. The three levels of the hierarchy are defined as follows: Level 1Unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. Coach currently does not have any Level 1 financial assets or liabilities.
Level 2Observable inputs other than quoted prices included in Level 1. Level 2 inputs include quoted prices for identical assets or liabilities in non-active markets, quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities in active markets, and inputs other than quoted prices that are observable for substantially the full term of the asset or liability.
Level 3Unobservable inputs reflecting managements own assumptions about the input used in pricing the asset or liability.
55 TABLE OF CONTENTS COACH, INC.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (dollars and shares in thousands, except per share data) 6. FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS (continued) The following table shows the fair value measurements of the Companys assets and liabilities at July 3, 2010 and June 27, 2009: Level 2 Level 3 July 3, 2010 June 27, 2009 July 3, 2010 June 27, 2009 Assets: Long-term investmentauction rate security (a) $  $  $ 6,000 $ 6,000 Derivative assetszero-cost collar options (b) 2,052    Total $ 2,052 $  $ 6,000 $ 6,000 Liabilities: Derivative liabilitieszero-cost collar options (b) $ 5,120 $ 943 $  $  Derivative liabilitiescross-currency swap (c)   2,418 36,118 Total $ 5,120 $ 943 $ 2,418 $ 36,118 (a) The fair value of the security is determined using a model that takes into consideration the financial conditions of the issuer and the bond insurer, current market conditions and the value of the collateral bonds.
(b) The Company enters into zero-cost collar options to manage its exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations resulting from Coach Japans and Coach Canadas U.S. dollar-denominated inventory purchases. The fair value of these cash flow hedges is primarily based on the forward curves of the specific indices upon which settlement is based and includes an adjustment for the counterpartys or Companys credit risk.
(c) The Company is a party to a cross-currency swap transaction in order to manage its exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations resulting from Coach Japans U.S. dollar-denominated fixed rate intercompany loan. The fair value of this cash flow hedge is primarily based on the forward curves of the specific indices upon which settlement is based and includes an adjustment for the Companys credit risk.
See note on Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities for more information on the Companys derivative contracts.
As of July 3, 2010 and June 27, 2009, the Companys investments included an auction rate security (ARS) classified as a long-term investment, as the auction for this security has been unsuccessful. This ARS is currently rated A, an investment grade rating afforded by credit rating agencies, and its underlying investments are scheduled to mature in 2035. We have determined that the significant majority of the inputs used to value this security fall within Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy as the inputs are based on unobservable estimates. At both July 3, 2010 and June 27, 2009, the fair value of the Companys ARS was $6,000. The table below presents the changes in the fair value of the auction rate security during fiscal 2009: Auction Rate Security Balance at June 28, 2008 $ 8,000 Unrealized other-than-temporary loss, recognized in selling, general and administrative expenses (2,000 ) Balance at June 27,2009 $ 6,000 56 TABLE OF CONTENTS COACH, INC.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (dollars and shares in thousands, except per share data) 6. FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS (continued) As of July 3, 2010 and June 27, 2009, the fair value of the Companys cross-currency swap derivatives were included within accrued liabilities. The Company uses a management model which includes a combination of observable inputs, such as tenure of the agreement and notional amount and unobservable inputs, such as the Companys credit rating. The table below presents the changes in the fair value of the cross-currency swap during fiscal 2010 and 2009: Cross-Currency Swaps Balance at June 27, 2009 $ 36,118 Settlement of cross-currency swap on July 2, 2010 (36,118 ) Unrealized loss on cross-currency swap maturing on June 30, 2011, recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income 2,418 Balance at July 3, 2010 $ 2,418 Balance at June 28, 2008 $ 5,540 Unrealized loss, recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income 30,578 Balance at June 27, 2009 $ 36,118 During fiscal 2010, the Company purchased $229,860 of short-term investments consisting of U.S. treasury bills and commercial paper. These investments, net of proceeds from sales and maturities, totaled $99,928 as of July 3, 2010 and are classified as held-to-maturity based on our positive intent and ability to hold the securities to maturity. They are stated at amortized cost, which approximates fair market value due to their short maturities.
7. DEBT Revolving Credit Facilities The Company maintains a $100,000 revolving credit facility with certain lenders and Bank of America, N.A. as the primary lender and administrative agent (the Bank of America facility). The facility expires on July 26, 2012. At Coachs request and lenders consent, the Bank of America facility can be expanded to $200,000 and can also be extended for two additional one-year periods. Under the Bank of America facility, Coach pays a commitment fee of 6 to 12.5 basis points on any unused amounts and interest of LIBOR plus 20 to 55 basis points on any outstanding borrowings. At July 3, 2010, the commitment fee was 7 basis points and the LIBOR margin was 30 basis points.
The Bank of America facility is available for seasonal working capital requirements or general corporate purposes and may be prepaid without penalty or premium. During fiscal 2010 and fiscal 2009 there were no borrowings under the Bank of America facility. Accordingly, as of July 3, 2010 and June 27, 2009, there were no outstanding borrowings under the Bank of America facility. The Companys borrowing capacity as of July 3, 2010 was $89,993, due to outstanding letters of credit.
The Bank of America facility contains various covenants and customary events of default. Coach has been in compliance with all covenants since its inception.
To provide funding for working capital and general corporate purposes, Coach Japan has available credit facilities with several Japanese financial institutions. These facilities allow a maximum borrowing of 4.1 billion Yen, or approximately $46,681, at July 3, 2010. Interest is based on the Tokyo Interbank rate plus a margin of 30 basis points.
During fiscal 2010 and fiscal 2009, the peak borrowings under the Japanese credit facilities were $0 and $14,404, respectively. As of July 3, 2010 and June 27, 2009, there were no outstanding borrowings under the Japanese credit facilities.
57 TABLE OF CONTENTS COACH, INC.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (dollars and shares in thousands, except per share data) 7. DEBT (continued) To provide funding for working capital and general corporate purposes, Coach Shanghai Limited has a credit facility that allows a maximum borrowing of 67 million Renminbi, or approximately $9,896 at July 3, 2010. Interest is based on the Peoples Bank of China rate. During fiscal 2010 and fiscal 2009, the peak borrowings under this credit facility were $7,496. At July 3, 2010, there were no outstanding borrowings under this facility.
Long-Term Debt Coach is party to an Industrial Revenue Bond related to its Jacksonville, Florida facility. This loan bears interest at 4.5%. Principal and interest payments are made semi-annually, with the final payment due in August 2014. As of July 3, 2010 and June 27, 2009, the remaining balance on the loan was $2,245 and $2,580, respectively. During fiscal 2009, Coach assumed a mortgage in connection with the purchase of its corporate headquarters building in New York City. This mortgage bears interest at 4.68%. Interest payments are made monthly and principal payments began in July 2009, with the final payment of $21,555 due in June 2013. As of July 3, 2010, the remaining balance on the mortgage was $22,656. Future principal payments under these obligations are as follows: Fiscal Year Amount 2011 $ 742 2012 791 2013 22,383 2014 500 2015 485 Subsequent to 2015  Total $ 24,901 8. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES At July 3, 2010 and June 27, 2009, the Company had letters of credit available of $275,000, of which $147,380 and $101,940, respectively, were outstanding. The letters of credit, which expire at various dates through 2012, primarily collateralize the Companys obligation to third parties for the purchase of inventory.
Coach is a party to employment agreements with certain key executives which provide for compensation and other benefits. The agreements also provide for severance payments under certain circumstances. The Companys employment agreements and the respective expiration dates are as follows: Executive Title Expiration Date Lew Frankfort Chairman and Chief Executive Officer August 2011 Reed Krakoff President and Executive Creative Director June 2014 Michael Tucci President, North America Retail Division June 2013 In addition to the employment agreements described above, other contractual cash obligations as of July 3, 2010 and June 27, 2009 included $166,596 and $105,114, respectively, related to inventory purchase obligations and $1,611 and $2,370, respectively, related to capital expenditure purchase obligations.
In the ordinary course of business, Coach is a party to several pending legal proceedings and claims. Although the outcome of such items cannot be determined with certainty, Coachs general counsel and management are of the opinion that the final outcome will not have a material effect on Coachs cash flow, results of operations or financial position.
58 TABLE OF CONTENTS COACH, INC.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (dollars and shares in thousands, except per share data) 9. DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS AND HEDGING ACTIVITIES Substantially all purchases and sales involving international parties are denominated in U.S. dollars, which limits the Companys exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. However, the Company is exposed to market risk from foreign currency exchange risk related to Coach Japans and Coach Canadas U.S. dollar-denominated inventory purchases and Coach Japans $139,400 U.S. dollar-denominated fixed rate intercompany loan. Coach uses derivative financial instruments to manage these risks. These derivative transactions are in accordance with the Companys risk management policies. Coach does not enter into derivative transactions for speculative or trading purposes.
Coach Japan and Coach Canada enter into certain foreign currency derivative contracts, primarily zero-cost collar options, to manage the exchange rate risk related to their inventory purchases. As of July 3, 2010 and June 27, 2009, $248,555 and $32,041 of foreign currency forward contracts were outstanding, respectively.
On July 1, 2005, to manage the exchange rate risk related to its $231,000 intercompany loan, Coach Japan entered into a cross currency swap transaction. The terms of the cross currency swap transaction included an exchange of a Yen fixed interest rate for a U.S. dollar fixed interest rate and an exchange of Yen and U.S. dollar-based notional values. On July 2, 2010, the maturity date of the original intercompany loan, Coach Japan repaid the loan and settled the cross currency swap, and entered into a new $139,400 intercompany loan agreement. Concurrently, to manage the exchange rate risk on the new loan, Coach Japan entered into a new cross currency swap transaction, the terms of which include an exchange of a Yen fixed interest rate for a U.S. dollar fixed interest rate. The loan matures on June 30, 2011, at which point the swap requires an exchange of Yen and U.S. dollar based notional values.
The Companys derivative instruments are designated as cash flow hedges. The effective portion of gains or losses on the derivative instruments are reported as a component of other comprehensive income and reclassified into earnings in the same periods during which the hedged transaction affects earnings. The ineffective portion of gains or losses on the derivative instruments are recognized in current earnings and are included within net cash provided by operating activities.
The following tables provide information related to the Companys derivatives: Derivatives Designated as Hedging Instruments Balance Sheet Classification Fair Value At July 3, 2010 At June 27, 2009 Foreign exchange contracts Other Current Assets $ 2,052 $  Total derivative assets $ 2,052 $  Foreign exchange contracts Accrued Liabilities $ 7,538 $ 37,061 Total derivative liabilities $ 7,538 $ 37,061 Amount of Loss Recognized in OCI on Derivatives (Effective Portion) Year Ended Derivatives in Cash Flow Hedging Relationships July 3, 2010 June 27, 2009 Foreign exchange contracts $ (3,363 ) $ (10,193 ) Total $ (3,363 ) $ (10,193 ) For fiscal 2010 and fiscal 2009, the amounts above are net of tax of $2,858 and $7,123, respectively.
59 TABLE OF CONTENTS COACH, INC.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (dollars and shares in thousands, except per share data) 9. DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS AND HEDGING ACTIVITIES (continued) Amount of Loss Reclassified from Accumulated OCI into Income (Effective Portion) Year Ended Location of Loss Reclassified from Accumulated OCI into Income (Effective Portion) July 3, 2010 June 27, 2009 Cost of Sales $ (5,453 ) $ (5,031 ) Total $ (5,453 ) $ (5,031 ) During fiscal 2010 and fiscal 2009, there were no material gains or losses recognized in income due to hedge ineffectiveness.
The Company expects that $2,634 of net derivative losses included in accumulated other comprehensive income at July 3, 2010 will be reclassified into earnings within the next 12 months. This amount will vary due to fluctuations in the Japanese Yen and Canadian Dollar exchange rates.
Hedging activity affected accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income, net of tax, as follows: Year Ended July 3, 2010 June 27, 2009 Balance at beginning of period $ (335 ) $ 6,943 Net losses transferred to earnings 1,606 2,915 Change in fair value, net of tax (3,363 ) (10,193 ) Balance at end of period $ (2,092 ) $ (335 ) 10. GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS The changes in the carrying amount of goodwill for the years ended July 3, 2010 and June 27, 2009 are as follows: Direct-to- Consumer Indirect Total Balance at June 28, 2008 $ 247,602 $ 1,516 $ 249,118 Acquisition of Hong Kong, Macau and mainland China retail businesses 6,254  6,254 Foreign exchange impact 28,015  28,015 Balance at June 27, 2009 281,871 1,516 283,387 Foreign exchange impact 22,474  22,474 Balance at July 3, 2010 $ 304,345 $ 1,516 $ 305,861 At July 3, 2010 and June 27, 2009, intangible assets not subject to amortization were $9,788 and consisted of trademarks.
60 TABLE OF CONTENTS COACH, INC.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (dollars and shares in thousands, except per share data) 11. INCOME TAXES The provisions for income taxes computed by applying the U.S. statutory rate to income before taxes as reconciled to the actual provisions were: Fiscal Year Ended July 3, 2010 June 27, 2009 June 28, 2008 Amount Percentage Amount Percentage Amount Percentage Income before provision for income taxes and discontinued operations: United States $ 989,255 85.9 % $ 870,819 89.1 % $ 1,082,584 90.6 % Foreign 162,673 14.1 106,262 10.9 112,365 9.4 Total income before provision for income taxes and discontinued operations: $ 1,151,928 100.0 % $ 977,081 100.0 % $ 1,194,949 100.0 % Tax expense at U.S. statutory rate $ 403,174 35.0 % $ 341,978 35.0 % $ 418,232 35.0 % State taxes, net of federal benefit 35,292 3.1 35,065 3.6 43,787 3.7 Foreign tax rate differential (39,631 ) (3.5 ) (9,202 ) (0.9 ) (7,750 ) (0.6 ) Tax benefit, primarily due to settlements of tax return examinations  0.0 (9,289 ) (1.0 ) (49,968 ) (4.2 ) Other, net 18,153 1.6 (4,840 ) (0.5 ) 7,609 0.6 Taxes at effective worldwide rates $ 416,988 36.2 % $ 353,712 36.2 % $ 411,910 34.5 % Current and deferred tax provisions (benefits) were: Fiscal Year Ended July 3, 2010 June 27, 2009 June 28, 2008 Current Deferred Current Deferred Current Deferred Federal $ 384,088 $ (40,613 ) $ 298,996 $ (5,646 ) $ 334,381 $ (21,391 ) Foreign (9,956 ) 28,449 (4,544 ) 14,788 25,624 5,931 State 59,985 (4,965 ) 45,600 4,518 68,812 (1,447 ) Total current and deferred tax provisions (benefits) $ 434,117 $ (17,129 ) $ 340,052 $ 13,660 $ 428,817 $ (16,907 ) 61 TABLE OF CONTENTS COACH, INC.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (dollars and shares in thousands, except per share data) 11. INCOME TAXES (continued) The components of deferred tax assets and liabilities at the respective year-ends were as follows: Fiscal 2010 Fiscal 2009 Share-based compensation $ 74,455 $ 74,328 Reserves not deductible until paid 81,396 74,159 Goodwill  22,923 Pensions and other employee benefits 45,935 15,623 Property and equipment 17,121 641 Net operating loss 40,890 26,430 Other 3,194 1,438 Gross deferred tax assets $ 262,991 $ 215,542 Prepaid expenses $ 7,426 $ 5,860 Equity adjustments   Goodwill 20,521  Other 1,224 1,114 Gross deferred tax liabilities $ 29,171 $ 6,974 Net deferred tax assets $ 233,820 $ 208,568 Consolidated Balance Sheets Classification Deferred income taxescurrent asset $ 77,355 $ 49,476 Deferred income taxesnoncurrent asset 156,465 159,092 Deferred income taxesnoncurrent liability   Net amount recognized $ 233,820 $ 208,568 During fiscal 2009, the Company reorganized the ownership of its business in Japan. As a result of the reorganization, the Company recorded a non-current deferred tax asset of $103,170 which represents the tax effect in Japan of the basis difference related to an asset acquired from within the Coach group. The Company also recorded a deferred credit of $103,170 and a deferred expense of $17,715 which represents the tax effects of future tax deductions and the net taxes payable, respectively, on the transaction. The current and long-term portion of the deferred credit is included within accrued liabilities and other liabilities, respectively, and the deferred expense is included within other assets.
The Company adopted the Financial Accounting Standards Boards (FASB) guidance for accounting for uncertainty in income taxes which has been codified within ASC 740 on July 1, 2007, the first day of fiscal 2008. ASC 740 prescribes a recognition threshold and measurement attribute for the financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. As a result, the Company recorded a non-cash cumulative transition charge of $48,797 as a reduction to the opening retained earnings balance.
Significant judgment is required in determining the worldwide provision for income taxes, and there are many transactions for which the ultimate tax outcome is uncertain. It is the Companys policy to establish provisions for taxes that may become payable in future years as a result of an examination by tax authorities. The Company establishes the provisions based upon managements assessment of exposure associated with uncertain tax positions. The provisions are analyzed periodically and adjustments are made as events occur that warrant adjustments to those provisions. All of these determinations are subject to the requirements of ASC 740.
62 TABLE OF CONTENTS COACH, INC.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (dollars and shares in thousands, except per share data) 11. INCOME TAXES (continued) A reconciliation of the beginning and ending gross amount of unrecognized tax benefits is as follows: Fiscal 2010 Fiscal 2009 Fiscal 2008 Balance at beginning of fiscal year $ 137,807 $ 131,185 $ 120,367 Gross increase due to tax positions related to prior periods 3,903 13,690 8,606 Gross decrease due to tax positions related to prior periods (1,376 ) (48,602 ) (44,719 ) Gross increase due to tax positions related to current period 27,034 42,367 72,983 Gross decrease due to tax positions related to current period   (24,369 ) Decrease due to lapse of statutes of limitations (1,692 ) (833 ) (1,683 ) Balance at end of fiscal year $ 165,676 $ 137,807 $ 131,185 Of the $165,676 ending gross unrecognized tax benefit balance, $77,586 relates to items which, if recognized, would impact the effective tax rate. As of July 3, 2010 and June 27, 2009, gross interest and penalties payable was $35,331 and $25,960, which are included in other liabilities. During fiscal 2010, fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2008, the Company recognized interest and penalty expense of $6,204, $5,611 and $(3,180), respectively, in the Consolidated Statements of Income.
The Company files income tax returns in the U.S. federal jurisdiction as well as various state and foreign jurisdictions. Fiscal years 2007 to present are open to examination in the federal jurisdiction, fiscal 2003 to present in significant state jurisdictions, and from fiscal 2003 to present in foreign jurisdictions.
Based on the number of tax years currently under audit by the relevant tax authorities, the Company anticipates that one or more of these audits may be finalized in the foreseeable future. However, based on the status of these examinations, and the protocol of finalizing audits by the relevant tax authorities, we cannot reasonably estimate the impact of any amount of such changes in the next 12 months, if any, to previously recorded uncertain tax positions.
At July 3, 2010, the Company had net operating loss carryforwards in foreign tax jurisdictions of $97,241, which will expire beginning in fiscal years 2012 through fiscal year 2017.
The total amount of undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries as of July 3, 2010 was $525,136. It is the Companys intention to permanently reinvest undistributed earnings of its foreign subsidiaries and thereby indefinitely postpone their remittance. Accordingly, no provision has been made for foreign withholding taxes or United States income taxes which may become payable if undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries are paid as dividends.
12. DEFINED CONTRIBUTION PLAN Coach maintains the Coach, Inc. Savings and Profit Sharing Plan, which is a defined contribution plan. Employees who meet certain eligibility requirements and are not part of a collective bargaining agreement may participate in this program. The annual expense incurred by Coach for this defined contribution plan was $13,285, $12,511 and $11,106 in fiscal 2010, fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2008, respectively.
63 TABLE OF CONTENTS COACH, INC.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (dollars and shares in thousands, except per share data) 13. SEGMENT INFORMATION The Company operates its business in two reportable segments: Direct-to-Consumer and Indirect. The Companys reportable segments represent channels of distribution that offer similar merchandise, service and marketing strategies. Sales of Coach products through Company-operated stores in North America, Japan, Hong Kong, Macau and mainland China, the Internet and the Coach catalog constitute the Direct-to-Consumer segment. The Indirect segment includes sales to wholesale customers and distributors in over 20 countries, including the United States, and royalties earned on licensed products. In deciding how to allocate resources and assess performance, Coachs executive officers regularly evaluate the sales and operating income of these segments. Operating income is the gross margin of the segment less direct expenses of the segment. Unallocated corporate expenses include production variances, general marketing, administration and information systems, as well as distribution and consumer service expenses.
In connection with the acquisitions of the retail businesses in Hong Kong, Macau and mainland China, the Company evaluated the composition of its reportable segments and concluded that sales in these regions should be included in the Direct-to-Consumer segment. Accordingly, all prior year comparable sales and operating income have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation.
Direct-to- Consumer Indirect Corporate Unallocated Total Fiscal 2010 Net sales $ 3,155,860 $ 451,776 $  $ 3,607,636 Operating income (loss) 1,245,400 256,637 (351,866 ) 1,150,171 Income (loss) before provision for income taxes and discontinued operations 1,245,400 256,637 (350,109 ) 1,151,928 Depreciation and amortization expense 85,110 10,138 31,496 126,744 Total assets 1,294,445 120,739 1,051,931 2,467,115 Additions to long-lived assets 45,003 9,088 26,307 80,398 Fiscal 2009 Net sales $ 2,726,891 $ 503,577 $  $ 3,230,468 Operating income (loss) 996,285 290,981 (315,353 ) 971,913 Income (loss) before provision for income taxes and discontinued operations 996,285 290,981 (310,185 ) 977,081 Depreciation and amortization expense 82,539 10,394 30,081 123,014 Total assets 1,311,341 86,235 1,166,760 2,564,336 Additions to long-lived assets 82,852 7,242 158,665 248,759 Fiscal 2008 Net sales $ 2,557,872 $ 622,885 $  $ 3,180,757 Operating income (loss) 1,094,321 399,401 (346,593 ) 1,147,129 Income (loss) before provision for income taxes and discontinued operations 1,094,321 399,401 (298,773 ) 1,194,949 Depreciation and amortization expense 67,485 9,704 23,515 100,704 Total assets 1,035,621 119,561 1,092,171 2,247,353 Additions to long-lived assets 120,288 24,252 43,123 187,663 64 TABLE OF CONTENTS COACH, INC.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (dollars and shares in thousands, except per share data) 13. SEGMENT INFORMATION (continued) The following is a summary of the common costs not allocated in the determination of segment performance: Fiscal Year Ended July 3, 2010 June 27, 2009 June 28, 2008 Production variances $ 61,481 $ 38,229 $ 26,659 Advertising, marketing and design (164,082 ) (150,714 ) (128,938 ) Administration and information systems (204,029 ) (153,387 ) (199,525 ) Distribution and customer service (45,236 ) (49,481 ) (44,789 ) Total corporate unallocated $ (351,866 ) $ (315,353 ) $ (346,593 ) Geographic Area Information As of July 3, 2010, Coach operated 322 retail stores and 118 factory stores in the United States, 20 retail stores and three factory stores in Canada, 161 department store shop-in-shops, retail stores and factory stores in Japan and 41 department store shop-in-shops, retail stores and factory stores in Hong Kong, Macau and mainland China. Coach also operates distribution, product development and quality control locations in the United States, Hong Kong, China, South Korea, Vietnam and India. Geographic revenue information is based on the location of our customer. Geographic long-lived asset information is based on the physical location of the assets at the end of each period and includes property and equipment, net and other assets.
United States Japan Other International (1) Total Fiscal 2010 Net sales $ 2,534,372 $ 720,860 $ 352,404 $ 3,607,636 Long-lived assets 567,380 76,514 42,466 686,360 Fiscal 2009 Net sales $ 2,318,602 $ 670,103 $ 241,763 $ 3,230,468 Long-lived assets 595,981 82,112 31,567 709,660 Fiscal 2008 Net sales $ 2,382,899 $ 605,523 $ 192,335 $ 3,180,757 Long-lived assets 452,616 76,863 10,404 539,883 (1) Other International sales reflect shipments to third-party distributors, primarily in East Asia, and sales from Coach-operated stores in Hong Kong, Macau, mainland China and Canada.
65 TABLE OF CONTENTS COACH, INC.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (dollars and shares in thousands, except per share data) 14. EARNINGS PER SHARE The following is a reconciliation of the weighted-average shares outstanding and calculation of basic and diluted earnings per share: Fiscal Year Ended July 3, 2010 June 27, 2009 June 28, 2008 Income from continuing operations $ 734,940 $ 623,369 $ 783,039 Total weighted-average basic shares 311,413 323,714 355,731 Dilutive securities: Employee benefit and share award plans 1,318 293 608 Stock option programs 3,117 1,613 3,993 Total weighted-average diluted shares 315,848 325,620 360,332 Earnings from continuing operations per share: Basic $ 2.36 $ 1.93 $ 2.20 Diluted $ 2.33 $ 1.91 $ 2.17 At July 3, 2010, options to purchase 3,710 shares of common stock were outstanding but not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share, as these options exercise prices, ranging from $41.93 to $51.56, were greater than the average market price of the common shares.
At June 27, 2009, options to purchase 24,004 shares of common stock were outstanding but not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share, as these options exercise prices, ranging from $24.33 to $51.56, were greater than the average market price of the common shares.
At June 28, 2008, options to purchase 11,439 shares of common stock were outstanding but not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share, as these options exercise prices, ranging from $33.69 to $51.56, were greater than the average market price of the common shares.
15. PURCHASE OF CORPORATE HEADQUARTERS BUILDING On November 26, 2008, Coach purchased its corporate headquarters building at 516 West 34th Street in New York City for $126,300. As part of the purchase agreement, Coach paid $103,300 of cash and assumed $23,000 of the outstanding mortgage held by the sellers. The mortgage bears interest at 4.68% per annum and interest payments are made monthly. Principal payments began in July 2009 with the final payment of $21,555 due in June 2013.
16. DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS In March 2007, the Company exited its corporate accounts business in order to better control the location where Coach product is sold and the image of the brand. Through the corporate accounts business, Coach sold products primarily to distributors for gift-giving and incentive programs. The results of the corporate accounts business, previously included in the Indirect segment, have been segregated from continuing operations and reported as discontinued operations in the Consolidated Statements of Income for all periods presented. As the Company uses a centralized approach to cash management, interest income was not allocated to the corporate accounts business. The following table summarizes results of the corporate accounts business: Fiscal Year Ended July 3, 2010 June 27, 2009 June 28, 2008 Net sales $  $  $ 102 Income before provision for income taxes   31 Income from discontinued operations   16 66 TABLE OF CONTENTS COACH, INC.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (dollars and shares in thousands, except per share data) 16. DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS (continued) At both July 3, 2010 and June 27, 2009 the consolidated balance sheet includes approximately $1,500 of accrued liabilities related to the corporate accounts business. The Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows includes the corporate accounts business for all periods presented.
17. STOCK REPURCHASE PROGRAM Purchases of Coachs common stock are made from time to time, subject to market conditions and at prevailing market prices, through open market purchases. Repurchased shares of common stock become authorized but unissued shares and may be issued in the future for general corporate and other purposes. The Company may terminate or limit the stock repurchase program at any time.
During fiscal 2010, fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2008, the Company repurchased and retired 30,686; 20,159 and 39,688 shares of common stock at an average cost of $37.48, $22.51 and $33.68 per share, respectively. In April 2010, Coachs Board authorized a new $1,000,000 share repurchase program. As of July 3, 2010, Coach had $559,627 remaining in the stock repurchase program.
18. SUPPLEMENTAL BALANCE SHEET INFORMATION The components of certain balance sheet accounts are as follows: July 3, 2010 June 27, 2009 Property and equipment Land and building $ 154,873 $ 154,873 Machinery and equipment 27,659 27,053 Furniture and fixtures 336,240 311,916 Leasehold improvements 499,117 461,431 Construction in progress 15,705 22,726 Less: accumulated depreciation (485,120 ) (385,017 ) Total property and equipment, net $ 548,474 $ 592,982 Accrued liabilities Payroll and employee benefits $ 149,688 $ 70,697 Accrued rent 35,637 29,324 Dividends payable 44,776 23,845 Derivative liability 7,538 37,061 Operating expenses 185,086 187,692 Total accrued liabilities $ 422,725 $ 348,619 Other liabilities Deferred lease incentives $ 111,126 $ 112,296 Non-current tax liabilities 165,676 137,807 Tax-related deferred credit (See Note on Income Taxes) 65,205 80,817 Other 66,620 52,650 Total other liabilities $ 408,627 $ 383,570 Accumulated other comprehensive income Cumulative translation adjustments $ 35,061 $ 7,597 Cumulative effect of adoption of ASC 320-10-35-17, net of taxes of $628 and $628 (1,072 ) (1,072 ) Unrealized losses on cash flow hedging derivatives, net of taxes of $1,920 and $245 (2,092 ) (335 ) ASC 715 adjustment and minimum pension liability, net of taxes of $1,642 and $1,559 (2,502 ) (2,339 ) Accumulated other comprehensive income $ 29,395 $ 3,851 67 TABLE OF CONTENTS COACH, INC.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (dollars and shares in thousands, except per share data) 19. SHAREHOLDER RIGHTS PLAN On May 3, 2001, Coach declared a poison pill dividend distribution of rights to buy additional common stock, to the holder of each outstanding share of Coachs common stock.
Subject to limited exceptions, these rights may be exercised if a person or group intentionally acquires 10% or more of the Companys common stock or announces a tender offer for 10% or more of the common stock on terms not approved by the Coach Board. In this event, each right would entitle the holder of each share of Coachs common stock to buy one additional common share of the Company at an exercise price far below the then-current market price. Subject to certain exceptions, Coachs Board will be entitled to redeem the rights at $0.0001 per right at any time before the close of business on the tenth day following either the public announcement that, or the date on which a majority of Coachs Board becomes aware that, a person has acquired 10% or more of the outstanding common stock. As of the end of fiscal 2010, there were no shareholders whose common stock holdings exceeded the 10% threshold established by the rights plan.
************************************************************************************* 68 TABLE OF CONTENTS COACH, INC.
Schedule IIValuation and Qualifying Accounts For the Fiscal Years Ended July 3, 2010, June 27, 2009 and June 28, 2008 (amounts in thousands) Balance at Beginning of Year Provision Charged to Costs and Expenses Write-offs/ Allowances Taken Balance at End of Year Fiscal 2010 Allowance for bad debts $ 2,840 $ (897 ) $  $ 1,943 Allowance for returns 3,507 8,579 (7,064 ) 5,022 Total $ 6,347 $ 7,682 $ (7,064 ) $ 6,965 Fiscal 2009 Allowance for bad debts $ 2,500 $ 376 $ (36 ) $ 2,840 Allowance for returns 5,217 11,707 (13,417 ) 3,507 Total $ 7,717 $ 12,083 $ (13,453 ) $ 6,347 Fiscal 2008 Allowance for bad debts $ 2,915 $ (350 ) $ (65 ) $ 2,500 Allowance for returns 3,664 11,054 (9,501 ) 5,217 Total $ 6,579 $ 10,704 $ (9,566 ) $ 7,717 69 TABLE OF CONTENTS COACH, INC.
Quarterly Financial Data (dollars and shares in thousands, except per share data) (unaudited) First Quarter Second Quarter Third Quarter Fourth Quarter Fiscal 2010 (1) Net sales $ 761,437 $ 1,065,005 $ 830,669 $ 950,525 Gross profit 550,178 770,939 615,575 696,999 Income from continuing operations 140,827 240,950 157,636 195,527 Income from discontinued operations     Net income 140,827 240,950 157,636 195,527 Net income per common share: Basic 0.44 0.76 0.51 0.65 Diluted 0.44 0.75 0.50 0.64 Fiscal 2009 (1) (2) Net sales $ 752,529 $ 960,256 $ 739,939 $ 777,744 Gross profit 558,193 692,036 525,063 547,318 Income from continuing operations 145,811 216,906 114,859 145,793 Income from discontinued operations     Net income 145,811 216,906 114,859 145,793 Net income per common share: Basic 0.44 0.67 0.36 0.46 Diluted 0.44 0.67 0.36 0.45 Fiscal 2008 (1) (3) Net sales $ 676,718 $ 978,017 $ 744,522 $ 781,500 Gross profit 518,221 737,272 558,318 593,292 Income from continuing operations 154,786 252,317 162,412 213,524 Income from discontinued operations 20  (4 )  Net income 154,806 252,317 162,408 213,524 Basic earnings per common share: Continuing operations 0.42 0.70 0.47 0.63 Discontinued operations 0.00  (0.00 )  Net income 0.42 0.70 0.47 0.63 Diluted earnings per common share: Continuing operations 0.41 0.69 0.46 0.62 Discontinued operations 0.00  (0.00 )  Net income 0.41 0.69 0.46 0.62 (1) The sum of the quarterly earnings per share may not equal the full-year amount, as the computations of the weighted-average number of common basic and diluted shares outstanding for each quarter and the full year are performed independently.
(2) The reported results for the third quarter of fiscal 2009 include a net charge of $8,286, or $0.03 per share which affects the comparability of our reported results. Excluding this net charge, income from continuing operations and diluted earnings per share from continuing operations were $123,145 and $0.38 per share, respectively. The $8,286 net charge represents cost savings initiatives. The reported results for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009 include a net benefit of $9,527, or $0.03 per share. Excluding this net benefit, income from continuing operations and diluted earnings per share from continuing operations were $136,266 and $0.43 per share, respectively. The $9,527 net benefit represents a favorable 70 TABLE OF CONTENTS settlement of a multi-year tax return examination and increased interest income reduced by a charitable contribution to the Coach Foundation. See Fiscal 2009 and Fiscal 2008 Items Affecting Comparability of Our Financial Results within Item 6.
(3) The reported results for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008 include a net benefit of $41,037, or $0.12 per share. Excluding this net benefit, income from continuing operations and diluted earnings per share from continuing operations were $172,487 and $0.50 per share, respectively. The net benefit represents a favorable settlement of a tax return examination reduced by the initial charitable contribution to the Coach Foundation and additional incentive compensation expense. See Fiscal 2009 and Fiscal 2008 Items Affecting Comparability of Our Financial Results within Item 6.
71 TABLE OF CONTENTS COACH, INC.
EXHIBITS TO FORM 10-K (a) Exhibit Table (numbered in accordance with Item 601 of Regulation S-K) Exhibit No.
Description 3.1 Amended and Restated Bylaws of Coach, Inc., dated February 7, 2008, which is incorporated herein by reference from Exhibit 3.1 to Coachs Current Report on Form 8-K filed on February 13, 2008 3.2 Articles Supplementary of Coach, Inc., dated May 3, 2001, which is incorporated herein by reference from Exhibit 3.2 to Coachs Current Report on Form 8-K filed on May 9, 2001 3.3 Articles of Amendment of Coach, Inc., dated May 3, 2001, which is incorporated herein by reference from Exhibit 3.3 to Coachs Current Report on Form 8-K filed on May 9, 2001 3.4 Articles of Amendment of Coach, Inc., dated May 3, 2002, which is incorporated by reference from Exhibit 3.4 to Coachs Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 29, 2002 3.5 Articles of Amendment of Coach, Inc., dated February 1, 2005, which is incorporated by reference from Exhibit 99.1 to Coachs Current Report on Form 8-K filed on February 2, 2005 4.1 Amended and Restated Rights Agreement, dated as of May 3, 2001, between Coach, Inc. and Mellon Investor Services LLC, which is incorporated by reference from Exhibit 4.1 to Coachs Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 2, 2005 4.2 Specimen Certificate for Common Stock of Coach, which is incorporated herein by reference from Exhibit 4.1 to Coachs Registration Statement on Form S-1 (Registration No. 333-39502) 10.1 Revolving Credit Agreement by and between Coach, certain lenders and Bank of America, N.A. which is incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.1 to Coachs Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2007 10.2 Coach, Inc. 2000 Stock Incentive Plan, which is incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.10 to Coachs Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 28, 2003 10.3 Coach, Inc. Performance-Based Annual Incentive Plan, which is incorporated by reference from Appendix A to the Registrants Definitive Proxy Statement for the 2005 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, filed on September 28, 2005 10.4 Coach, Inc. 2000 Non-Employee Director Stock Plan, which is incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.13 to Coachs Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 28, 2003 10.5 Coach, Inc. Non-Qualified Deferred Compensation Plan for Outside Directors, which is incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.14 to Coachs Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 28, 2003 10.6 Coach, Inc. 2001 Employee Stock Purchase Plan, which is incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.15 to Coachs Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 29, 2002 10.7 Coach, Inc. 2004 Stock Incentive Plan, which is incorporated by reference from Appendix A to the Registrants Definitive Proxy Statement for the 2004 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, filed on September 29, 2004 10.8 Employment Agreement dated June 1, 2003 between Coach and Lew Frankfort, which is incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.20 to Coachs Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 28, 2003 10.9 Employment Agreement dated June 1, 2003 between Coach and Reed Krakoff, which is incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.21 to Coachs Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 28, 2003 10.10 Branding Agreement dated August 5, 2010 between Coach and Reed Krakoff 72 TABLE OF CONTENTS Exhibit No.