http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/874761/000104746908002833/a2183492z10-k.htm
http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/874761/000104746908002833/0001047469-08-002833-index.html
1.4623e+13
AES
2007-12-31
10-K
AES_2007-12-31_10-K.txt

10-K 1 a2183492z10-k.htm 10-K -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D.C. 20549 FORM 10-K The AES Corporation (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (703) 522-1315 Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None Indicate by check mark if the Registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. Yes o No Indicate by check mark if the Registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15 (d) of the Act. Yes o No Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes No o Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K. 
 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Restatement of Consolidated Financial Statements and Reclassification of Certain Subsidiaries to Held for Sale Background The Company has previously identified certain material weaknesses related to its system of internal control over financial reporting. As described in the Company's 2006 Form 10-K/A filed on August 7, 2007, the following five material weaknesses were reported: A Lack of Detailed Accounting Records for Certain Holding Companies; Contract Accounting; A Lack of Controls and Procedures Related to Granting and Reporting of Share-Based Compensation; Treatment of Intercompany Loans Denominated in Other Than the Entity's Functional Currency; and Aggregation of Control Deficiencies at our Cameroonian Subsidiary. 

As of December 31, 2007 the Company has remediated the following three material weaknesses: Treatment of Intercompany Loans Denominated in Other Than the Entity's Functional Currency; A Lack of Controls and Procedures Related to Granting and Reporting of Share-Based Compensation; and Aggregation of Control Deficiencies at our Cameroonian Subsidiary. 

Accordingly, the following two material weaknesses remain unremediated as of December 31, 2007: A Lack of Detailed Accounting Records for Certain Holding Companies; and Contract Accounting. 

Restatement Discussion In 2005, the Company prepared and documented its accounting analysis of a power purchase agreement ("the Deepwater Agreement") between AES Deepwater, one of our generation businesses in Deepwater, Texas and a third party. The assessment of the Deepwater Agreement included an analysis of whether the contract is a derivative under provisions of SFAS No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, ("SFAS No. 133"). Because the penalty clause in the Deepwater Agreement does not contain specific volumes upon which the penalties would be based, the Company concluded that these penalty provisions are not specific enough to be valued. Accordingly, the Company determined that the Deepwater Agreement was not a derivative under SFAS No. 133 and consulted with Deloitte & Touche LLP in reaching this conclusion. 

As part of the 2007 year-end closing process and in connection with the remediation of the Company's material weakness for contract accounting (see Item 9A Controls and Procedures for further discussion of this material weakness), the Company reviewed several hundred contracts relative to the risk of additional errors. The Deepwater Agreement received a second review as part of this process. In that review, the Company determined that there was no intent by the contracting parties to create a derivative contract, that the penalty clause had not changed, and that no penalties had been triggered under the Deepwater Agreement. The Company now believes, and its external auditors agree, 80 that even though there is no explicit formula for calculating penalties in the Deepwater Agreement, a minimum volume could be inferred from certain capacity requirement provisions in the Deepwater Agreement. Under this accounting interpretation, the penalty can be valued, making the contract subject to derivative accounting treatment. Accordingly, the Company has concluded that the Deepwater Agreement will be treated as a derivative under SFAS No. 133, valued and marked-to-market resulting in an adjustment to previously reported results. The impact of the Deepwater Adjustment resulted in an increase of approximately $30 million and a decrease of approximately $25 million to income from continuing operations and net income in 2006 and 2005, respectively. 

In addition to the Deepwater Adjustment, the Company has identified a number of smaller non-cash adjustments to its prior period financial statements ("Other Adjustments"), none of which is individually material. In the aggregate (excluding the Deepwater Adjustment) these out-of-period adjustments are not material to the Company's financial statements. Many of these errors were identified during the Company's remediation of previously identified material weaknesses, while others were identified during the year-end closing process, including errors relating to depreciation and accounting for judicial deposits in Brazil. We generally recognize these adjustments in the period in which they were identified. Because the Deepwater Adjustment has required a restatement, we also are recording these Other Adjustments in the proper periods. The Company has also entered into an agreement to sell two indirect wholly-owned subsidiaries with operations in Kazakhstan, AES Ekibastuz LLP and Maikuben West LLP. As required by SFAS No. 144 [Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets], ("SFAS No. 144"), presentation of the assets and liabilities of these businesses are classified as held for sale. 

As disclosed in the Company's Form 8-K dated March 3, 2008, as a result of the restatement, the Company was in default under its senior secured credit facility and its senior unsecured credit facility due to a breach of a representation related to its financial statements set forth in the credit agreements related to the facilities. The Company has obtained a waiver of these defaults from its lenders under these facilities. 

81 The following table details the impact of the restatement on the Company's Consolidated Statements of Operations for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005: 82 The Other Adjustments in the table above include the following: Regulated revenues: We recorded reclass adjustments related to bad debts that were previously written off and subsequently recovered in cash. We originally recorded these recoveries in regulated revenue. The effect of this adjustment was to reclass these bad debt recoveries from regulated revenue to cost of sales. The impact of this adjustment was a decrease to regulated revenue and a decrease to cost of sales of $41 million and $29 million, for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. 

 Regulated cost of sales and other income: We recorded adjustments in connection with the correction of errors related to the reconciliation of judicial deposits at Eletropaulo, our business in Brazil. Cash deposits were placed on reserve, as required by Brazilian Courts, as a result of pending civil or labor claims against the business. Upon settlement of the claims, appropriate expense was not recognized by the business. Additionally, related interest income on the deposited funds was not recognized appropriately. The net impact on continuing operations and net income for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005 was an increase of $5 million and $1 million, respectively. 

 Impairment expense: We recorded an adjustment of $11 million to reduce impairment expense and increase in non-regulated cost of sales in 2006. We originally reported the cost associated with a plant outage to impairment expense instead of cost of sales. 

 Embedded derivatives: In addition to the adjustment related to the Deepwater Agreement, we recorded other adjustments related to contract accounting as a result of the identification of embedded derivatives in two of the contracts that were reviewed. Through our on-going remediation efforts related to contract accounting, we identified two additional contracts that contained embedded derivatives that were not identified at the time of the initial contract review. The correction of these errors resulted in an increase of $2 million and a decrease of $8 million to continuing operations and net income for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. 

83 The following table details the impact of the restatement and certain reclassifications of businesses held for sale on the Company's Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2006: 84 The discussion below highlights the impact of certain adjustments on the Company's Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2006. These errors were neither material individually, or in the aggregate. The primary adjustments recorded were as follows: We corrected an error to properly account for one of our transmission leases as a capital lease as opposed to an operating lease. The net impact of this adjustment was an increase to property, plant and equipment, net and non-recourse debt of $28 million. 

 We recorded an adjustment to reclassify certain intangible assets that were incorrectly included as property, plant and equipment to other intangible assets, net. The impact of this adjustment was a decrease to property, plant and equipment, net and an increase to other intangible assets $187 million. 

 The impact of the Deepwater Adjustment on the Company's Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2006 was a decrease to current liabilities of $23 million and a decrease to long term liabilities of $25 million. The impact on the Company's Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2005 was an increase to current liabilities of $20 million and an increase to long term liabilities of $23 million. 

 We have updated our disclosure in Note 8 Long-term Debt regarding our accounting for AES Trust III and AES Trust VII (the TECON Trusts') to properly reflect that these trusts are consolidated in the Company's financial statements. We previously reported that the TECON Trusts' were not consolidated. As disclosed, AES's obligations under the Junior Subordinated Debentures and other relevant trust agreements, in aggregate, constitute a full and unconditional guarantee by AES of the TECON Trusts obligations. This change only impacts the aforementioned disclosure and has no impact on any of the Company's Consolidated Financial Statements. 

The restatement adjustments had no material impact on net cash flows. 

Overview of Our Business AES is a global power company. We own a portfolio of electricity generation and distribution businesses with generation capacity totaling approximately 43,000 MW and distribution networks serving over 11 million people. Our global footprint includes operations in 28 countries on five continents with 81% of our revenue for 2007 generated outside the United States. 

We operate two primary lines of businesses. The first is our Generation business, where we own and/or operate power plants to generate and sell power to wholesale customers such as utilities and other intermediaries. The second is our Utilities business, where we own and/or operate utilities to distribute, transmit and sell electricity to end-user customers in the residential, commercial, industrial and governmental sectors within a defined service area. Each of our primary lines of business generates approximately half of our revenues. We are also developing an Alternative Energy business. Alternative Energy includes strategic initiatives such as wind generation and climate solutions, such as the production of emissions credits. 

Generation. 

We currently own or operate 121 Generation facilities in 26 countries on five continents. We also have 12 new Generation facilities under construction. Our Generation businesses use a wide range of technologies and fuel types including coal, combined-cycle gas turbines, hydroelectric power and biomass. 

The majority of the electricity produced by our Generation businesses is sold under long-term contracts, or power purchase agreements, to wholesale customers. Approximately 62% of the revenues from our Generation businesses during 2007 was derived from plants that operate under power purchase agreements of five years or longer for 75% or more of their output capacity. These businesses 85 often reduce their exposure to fuel supply risks by entering into long-term fuel supply contracts or fuel tolling contracts where the customer assumes full responsibility for purchasing and supplying the fuel to the power plant. These long-term contractual agreements result in relatively predictable cash flow and earnings and reduce exposure to volatility in the market price for electricity and fuel; however, the amount of earnings and cash flow predictability varies from business to business based on the degree to which its exposure is limited by the contracts that it has negotiated. 

The balance of our Generation businesses sell power through competitive markets under short-term contracts or directly in the spot market. As a result, the cash flows and earnings associated with these businesses are more sensitive to fluctuations in the market price for electricity, natural gas, coal and other fuels. However, for a number of these facilities, including our plants in New York, which include a fleet of low-cost coal fired plants, we have hedged the majority of our exposure to fuel, energy and emissions pricing for the next several years Utilities. 

Our Utilities businesses distribute power to more than 11 million people in eight countries on five continents. Our Utilities business consists primarily of 15 companies owned and/or operated under management agreements, all of which operate in a defined service area. These businesses have a variety of structures ranging from pure distribution businesses to fully integrated utilities, which generate, transmit and distribute power. In May 2007, we completed the sale of EDC, our utility in Venezuela, for $739 million net of tax. As a result of the sale, we recognized an impairment charge of $680 million which represented the difference between the net book value of our investment in EDC and the sales price. This impairment charge and the results of the operations for EDC are reflected as discontinued operations for all periods presented in the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Form 10-K. 

Alternative Energy. 

Alternative Energy is not currently one of our primary lines of business, but we expect this high growth sector to be a material contributor to our revenue and gross margin in the future. As demand for more sustainable and environmentally friendly sources of energy grows, we continue to invest in Alternative Energy with a current focus on increasing our wind power capacity and building our climate solutions business for GHG reduction. AES entered the wind business in 2005 and today we have ten wind generation facilities with more than 1,000 MW of wind projects in operation. In addition, we are developing initiatives in other countries that are approved for GHG projects under the Kyoto Protocol and marketing the credits created. AES operates in 18 of the developing countries that are eligible for these credits which provides us with a good foundation for this new business. 

Segments. 

Our Generation and Utilities businesses are organized within four defined geographic regions: (1) Latin America, (2) North America, (3) Europe & Africa, and (4) Asia and the Middle East, ("Asia"). Three regions, North America, Latin America and Europe & Africa, are engaged in both Generation and Utility businesses. Our Asia region operates only Generation businesses. Accordingly, these businesses and regions account for seven operating segments. "Corporate and Other" includes corporate overhead costs which are not directly associated with the operations of our seven primary operating segments; interest income and expense; other inter-company charges such as management fees and self-insurance premiums which are fully eliminated in consolidation; and revenue, development costs and operational costs related to our Alternative Energy business, which is currently not material to our operations. 

Key Drivers of Our Results of Operations. 

Our Utilities and Generation businesses are distinguished by the nature of their customers, operational differences, cost structure, regulatory environment and risk exposure. As a result, each line of business has slightly different drivers which affect operating results. Performance drivers for our Generation businesses include, among other things, plant availability and reliability, management of fixed and operational costs and the extent to which our plants have hedged their exposure to fuel cost volatility. For our Generation businesses which sell 86 power under short-term contract or in the spot market one of the most crucial factors is the market price of electricity and the plant's ability to generate electricity at a cost below that price. Growth in our Generation business is largely tied to securing new power purchase agreements, expanding capacity in our existing facilities and building new power plants. Performance drivers for our Utilities businesses include, but are not limited to, reliability of service; negotiation of tariff adjustments; compliance with extensive regulatory requirements; management of working capital; and in developing countries, reduction of commercial and technical losses. The results of operations of our Utilities businesses are sensitive to changes in economic growth and weather conditions in the area in which they operate. 

One of the key factors which affect both our revenue and costs of sales is changes in the cost of fuel. When fuel costs increase, many of our Generation businesses with long-term contracts and our Utilities are able to pass these costs on to the customer through fuel pass-through or fuel indexing arrangements in their contracts or through increases in tariff rates. Therefore, in a rising fuel cost environment as was the case in 2007, increases in fuel costs for these businesses often resulted in increases in revenue (though not necessarily on a one-for-one basis). While these circumstances may not have a large impact on gross margin, they can significantly affect gross margin as a percentage of revenue. Other factors that can affect gross margin include our ability to expand the number of facilities we own; and in our existing plants, to sign up new customers and/or purchasing parties, collect receivables from existing customers and operate our plants more efficiently. In 2007, these afforts helped us overcome certain challenges that we face in our business, such as issues related to fuel supplies and forced purchases on the spot market at high prices. 

Highlights of 2007 Results of Operations. 

In 2007, management continued to focus its efforts on increasing shareholder value by improving operations, executing our growth strategy and strategically managing our portfolio of businesses. Our 2007 results of operations were positively impacted by a number of factors including, but not limited to: higher tariff rates at certain of our distribution businesses; contributions from recent acquisitions including TEG/TEP in Mexico in February 2007, where significant operational improvements were achieved, and a full year of operations at Itabo in the Dominican Republic; increased usage in both Brazil and the Ukraine; and favorable foreign currency translation at our Utilities businesses in Latin America. 

However, our business faced numerous challenges as well during 2007. Our results were negatively impacted by increased costs from gas supply curtailments, drier than normal hydrology and high spot prices for electricity at the Company's businesses in the Southern Cone of Latin America. Significantly lower than normal rainfall in Argentina caused our hydro-powered generation plant at AES Alicura to operate less. Therefore, we had to rely on our other plants, which use higher cost fuel sources, to deliver energy to our customers. The drier than normal hydrology conditions and other factors in Argentina resulted in significantly increased demand for gas and, in response, the government of Argentina placed restrictions (curtailments) on gas exports to Chile and Brazil. AES Uruguaiana, our gas powered generation plant in Brazil, receives its gas from Argentina and was negatively impacted by the Argentine gas curtailment because AES Uruguaina is obligated under its contract to deliver power to its customers at a contracted price. As a result, AES Uruguaina had to purchase fuel and energy on the open market at higher spot prices, which exceeded the amount that AES Uruguaiana could recover under its existing contracts. In the fourth quarter of 2007, we recognized an impairment charge of approximately $352 million with respect to our investment in AES Uruguaiana. Some of our gas-fired generation businesses servicing Chile were similarly impacted by the Argentine gas curtailment resulting in the purchase of higher priced fuel to operate these plants. 

During 2007, we recognized additional impairment charges of $52 million related to our investment in AgCert, a United Kingdom company that produces carbon emission credits ("CERs"), and $14 million related to prepaid CERs, due to AgCert's potential inability to deliver the CERs or to 87 repay the sums advanced by us; $25 million related to our Placerita subsidiary, a gas-fired combined cycle generation plant located in the United States, due to damage sustained to one of the plant's gas turbines; and $10 million related to the curtailment of operations at Coal Creek Minerals, LLC, a coal mining company owned by our subsidiary Cavanal Minerals. Our results of operations were also significantly affected by increased fuel costs across all four of our regions; a tariff reduction at Eletropaulo, one of our Latin America Utilities businesses; the sale of EDC; increased interest expense; and higher overhead costs as a result of our financial restatements and continued remediation of the material weaknesses in our internal control of financial reporting. 

Despite these challenges, we still had strong operating performance as demonstrated by the following financial achievements: highest annual revenue in Company history of $13.6 billion and gross margin of $3.4 billion, or 25% of revenue; income from continuing operations of $495 million, or $0.73 per diluted share; and highest annual cash flow from operations in company history of $2.4 billion, despite a net loss of $95 million in the current year and the loss of cash flow from the operations of EDC subsequent to its sale in May 2007. 

We were also able to improved the parent company's capital structure by refinancing existing secured debt with unsecured debt at more favorable rates and with longer average maturities, which resulted in a decrease of secured debt as a percentage of total parent company debt from approximately 42% to 17%. 

Growth Strategy and Portfolio Management. 

During 2007, we continued to execute our growth strategy. In February 2007, we acquired TEG/TEP, two 230 MW petroleum coke-fired power plants in Mexico, for $611 million, including cash and the assumption of debt. We added 427 MW of capacity to our wind operation portfolio, including the start-up of commercial operations at Buffalo Gap and the acquisition of Midwest Wind. Additionally, we commenced construction of a 170 MW expansion to Buffalo Gap III, one of our existing wind farms, which is expected to commence commercial operation in 2008. In early 2008, we also announced the Company's acquisition of a coal-fired generation facility in the Philippines for $930 million. 

The Company's growth project backlog (growth projects under construction) as of December 31, 2007 totaled over 2,240 GMW of new generation capacity with a total expected investment of approximately $4 billion through 2011. This includes fossil-fueled projects in Chile, Bulgaria and Jordan, hydroelectric projects in Panama and Turkey and a wind project in the United States. We also secured early-stage memorandums of understanding to develop power projects in countries such as Vietnam, Indonesia and India. Our business strategy is focused on global growth in our core Generation and Utilities businesses along with growth in related markets such as Alternative Energy, electricity transmission and water desalination. The Company sees growth investments as the most significant contributor to long-term shareholder value creation. 

The Company expects to fund growth investments from available cash, net cash from operating activities and/or the proceeds from debt (both recourse and non-recourse) and equity financing, asset sales and partner equity contributions. Certain of the Alternative Energy businesses may be considered start-up businesses that will need to be funded internally through cash equity contributions, and may have limited non-recourse debt financing opportunities initially. We see sufficient attractive investment opportunities that may exceed available cash and net cash from operating activities in future periods. 

The Company's growth strategies are complemented by an increased emphasis on portfolio management through which AES has and will continue to sell or monetize a portion of certain businesses or assets when market values appear significantly higher than the Company's assessment of 88 its value as part of the AES portfolio. Portfolio management was an important area of focus in 2007 and will be a continuing area of focus in 2008 and beyond. In October 2007, we sold 10% of our interest in Gener, our subsidiary in Chile, for $306 million, which increased the liquidity of those shares and we believe reduced the discount the local Chilean stock market had been placing on Gener shares due to their prior illiquidity. In early 2008, we announced the sale of Ekibastuz and Maikuben, two of our Generation businesses in Kazakhstan, for an upfront price of $1.1 billion and management fees and earn out provisions that could generate additional consideration of up to approximately $380 million. 

Outlook for the Future Management's strategy is to continue building on our traditional lines of business while expanding into other essential energy-related areas, such as Alternative Energy. As part of that mission, AES strives to improve both short and long-term profitability while positioning the Company to continue our success in the future. 

As we look to 2008 and beyond, we will work toward the following goals: continuing to expand our global footprint by leveraging our existing relationships around the world and entering new markets while continuing to grow our operations in our existing markets through capital investment; managing our debt maturity profile and strengthening our capital structure; growing our Alternative Energy businesses and working towards being a leader in the area of renewable energy generation and carbon offsets and become a world class operator; and maintaining our focus on safety. 

The Company also believes that high oil prices, increasing regulation of greenhouse gases, faster than expected global economic growth and a weak U.S. Dollar present opportunities for value creation, based on the Company's current business portfolio strategies. Slower global economic growth, which will impact demand growth for utilities and some generation businesses, is one of the most significant potential obstacles affecting value creation. Other important scenarios that could impair future value include higher oil prices and a strong U.S. Dollar. 

2007 Performance Highlights The following is a summary discussion of the consolidated revenue, gross margin, earnings per share, and net cash from operating activities. 

Revenue We achieved record revenues of $13.6 billion, an increase of 17% from $11.6 billion the previous year. The increase in revenues was primarily driven by higher prices across our Generation businesses 89 of approximately $688 million; contributions from new acquisitions such as TEG/TEP and Itabo of approximately $286 million; and favorable currency translation of approximately $636 million primarily at our Utilities businesses in Latin America. 

Gross margin Gross margin remained relatively flat at $3.4 billion, as improved operations in North America, favorable foreign currency translation in Brazil and contributions from recent acquisitions were offset by tariff reductions at Eletropaulo and ongoing gas supply curtailments and drier than normal hydrology at our businesses in Argentina and Chile. 

Earnings per share Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations increased $0.46 per share to $0.73 per share compared to $0.27 per share in 2006. This increase was primarily driven by higher revenues as a result of pass through fuel costs and the 2006 impact of our Brasiliana restructuring of approximately $0.76 per share; impairment charges related to Uruguaiana and AgCert of approximately ($0.34) per share; and the impact of the Mexican Tax Law Change of approximately ($0.07) per share. The remaining growth in earnings per share was attributable to the overall growth of the business. 

90 Net cash from operating activities Net cash provided by operating activities remained relatively flat at $2.4 billion. Excluding any contribution from EDC, net cash from operating activities would have increased by approximately $119 million, an increase of 6% from $2.1 billion in 2006 to $2.2 billion in 2007. 

Consolidated Results of Operations (1) Corporate and Other includes revenues from Alternative Energy and inter-segment eliminations of revenues related to transfers of electricity from Tiet (generation) to Eletropaulo (utility). 

(2) Total Corporate and Other expenses include corporate general and administrative expenses as well as certain inter-segment eliminations, primarily corporate charges for management fees and self insurance premiums. 

91 Segment Analysis Latin America The following table summarizes revenue for our Generation and Utilities segments in Latin America for the periods indicated (in millions): Fiscal Year 2007 versus 2006 Revenue Generation revenue increased $895 million, or 34%, from the previous year primarily due to higher rates and volume at Gener (in Chile) and Alicura (in Argentina) of approximately $443 million and $95 million, respectively; and increased volume and intercompany sales from Tiet (in Brazil) to Eletropaulo, our Brazilian utility, of approximately $130 million. Our increase in ownership of the controlling shares of Itabo contributed approximately $87 million in revenue. The impact of favorable foreign currency translation was approximately $38 million. 

Utilities revenue increased $620 million, or 14%, from the previous year. This increase was primarily the result of favorable foreign currency translation of $493 million, and increased rates and volume in Brazil at our Sul facility and at our plants in El Salvador of $58 million and $41 million, respectively, offset by net decreases in tariff of $24 million at Eletropaulo (in Brazil). 

Fiscal Year 2006 versus 2005 Revenue Generation revenue increased $470 million, or 22%, from the previous year primarily due to higher rates and volume at our Chile and Argentina businesses of $86 million and $99 million, respectively; higher sales offset by intercompany sales from Tiet in Brazil to Eletropaulo of approximately $137 million; and our increase in ownership of the controlling shares of Itabo in the Dominican Republic contributed approximately $115 million in revenue. 

Utilities revenue increased $425 million, or 10%, from the previous year. This increase was driven by favorable foreign currency translation of $413 million; a net increase of $19 million in rates and volume at Eletropaulo and increased tariff rates at CAESS and Clesa in El Salvador of $62 million, offset by lower intercompany sales at Infoenergy of $40 million. 

The following table summarizes gross margin for the Generation and Utilities segments in Latin America for the periods indicated (in millions): 92 Fiscal Year 2007 versus 2006 Gross Margin Generation gross margin decreased $97 million, or 9%, from the previous year primarily due to increased cost from gas supply curtailments, drier than normal hydrology and higher spot prices for electricity in the Company's businesses in Argentina, Chile and Southern Brazil of approximately $173 million and one time transmission charges at Tiet of $39 million, offset in part, by higher sales at Itabo in the Dominican Republic of $23 million and intercompany sales in Tiet of $103 million. 

Utilities gross margin decreased $23 million, or 3%, from the previous year primarily due to reduced tariff rates at Eletropaulo of $355 million offset by lower costs, favorable foreign currency translation of $148 million and higher volume of $74 million. Additionally, Sul (in Brazil) had increased rates and volume of $27 million and favorable foreign currency translation of $19 million. 

Fiscal Year 2006 versus 2005 Gross Margin Generation gross margin increased $195 million, or 23%, from the previous year due to net increases in intercompany and volume sales from Tiet to Eletropaulo in Brazil of $137 million, an increase in spot market and contract energy prices at Gener in Chile of $88 million and $13 million from the acquisition of a controlling interest in Itabo in the Dominican Republic, these were partially offset by unfavorable foreign currency impacts of $30 million. 

Utilities gross margin increased $304 million, or 52%, from the previous year due to $192 million of additional gross bad debts reserves recognized in the second quarter of 2005 related to the collectibility of certain municipal receivables at Eletropaulo and Sul in Brazil, and favorable foreign currency impacts of $170 million. These increases were partially offset by higher legal reserves at Eletropaulo of $56 million. 

North America The following table summarizes revenue for our Generation and Utilities segments in North America for the periods indicated (in millions): Fiscal Year 2007 versus 2006 Revenue Generation revenue increased $240 million, or 12%, from the previous year primarily due to approximately $200 million in new business as a result of our acquisition of TEG/TEP in Mexico and approximately $96 million in higher rate and volume sales at the Company's New York facilities; offset by mark-to-market adjustments for embedded derivatives of $51 million at Deepwater in Texas and lower emission sales of $39 million. 

Utilities revenue increased $20 million, or 2%, from the previous year primarily due to increased volume, offset by a slight decrease in tariff rates at IPL. 

93 Fiscal Year 2006 versus 2005 Revenue Generation revenue increased $183 million, or 11%, due to the change in the mark-to-market adjustment related to Deepwater of approximately $96 million and an increase in revenues of $76 million at the New York facilities due to an increase in rates. 

Utilities revenue increased $81 million, or 9%, from the previous year primarily attributable to higher pricing at IPL due to the pass through of higher fuel costs. 

The following table summarizes gross margin for the Generation and Utilities segments in North America for the periods indicated (in millions): Fiscal Year 2007 versus 2006 Gross Margin Generation gross margin increased $92 million, or 15%, from the previous year primarily due to approximately $62 million related to our acquisition of TEG/TEP in Mexico and $90 million related to higher rates and volumes and lower cost at the Company's New York facilities offset by lower sales of excess emissions allowances of approximately $39 million. 

Utilities gross margin increased $36 million, or 13%, primarily due to increased volume sales and deferred fuel cost recoveries at IPL. 

Fiscal Year 2006 versus 2005 Gross Margin Generation gross margin increased $54 million, or 10%, from the previous year primarily due to the impact of the marked-to-market adjustment related to Deepwater of approximately $96 million, offset by a decrease of approximately $38 million related to outages at Warrior Run, Hawaii and Ironwood as well as a scheduled reduction in pricing of the power purchase agreements for our Hawaii plant of $13 million. 

Utilities gross margin decreased $24 million, or 8%, from the previous year primarily due to higher maintenance costs at IPL of $23 million as part of a scheduled outage on one of its large base load coal fired units that coincided with a project to enhance environmental emission technology to significantly reduce emissions as well as increased emissions allowances. 

Europe & Africa The following table summarizes revenue for the Generation and Utilities segments in Europe & Africa for the periods indicated (in millions): 94 Fiscal Year 2007 versus 2006 Revenue Generation revenue increased $123 million, or 14%, from the previous year primarily due to favorable foreign currency translation of $77 million and increased rate and volume sales of approximately $60 million at our businesses in Kazakhstan. 

Utilities revenue increased $90 million, or 16%, from the previous year primarily due to increased tariff rates and volume of approximately $57 million in the Ukraine and approximately $28 million in favorable foreign currency translation. 

Fiscal Year 2006 versus 2005 Revenue Generation revenue increased $117 million, or 16%, primarily due to increased volume sales and contract energy prices at Tisza II in Hungary of $73 million offset by decreased volume at Ekibastuz in Kazakhstan of $30 million, increased sales from our centralized trading office in Altai, Kazakhstan of $58 million, and CO 2 emission allowance sales in Hungary of $16 million and Bohemia in the Czech Republic of $12 million. 

Utilities revenue increased $64 million, or 13%, primarily due to increased demand and tariff rates at SONEL in Cameroon of $17 million and $46 million at our businesses in the Ukraine. 

The following table summarizes gross margin for the Generation and Utilities segments in Europe & Africa for the periods indicated (in millions): Fiscal Year 2007 versus 2006 Gross Margin Generation gross margin increased $28 million, or 11%, from the previous year primarily due to rate and volume increases at our businesses in Kazakhstan and Kilroot of $44 million and $13 million, respectively. These increases were offset by lower emission sales in Hungary and Bohemia in the Czech Republic of approximately $28 million. 

Utilities gross margin decreased $40 million, or 39%, from the previous year primarily due to higher non-fuel operating and maintenance costs as well as higher fuel usage at SONEL in Cameroon. 

Fiscal Year 2006 versus 2005 Gross Margin Generation gross margin increased $62 million, or 34%, from the previous year, primarily due to higher pricing on improved volumes at Ekibastuz and at our centralized trading office in Altai both in Kazakhstan, margin on CO 2 emission allowance sales in Hungary of $16 million and by Bohemia in the Czech Republic of $11 million. 

Utilities gross margin was flat compared to the prior year primarily due to higher expenses at SONEL in Cameroon, offset by improved volume sales and tariff rates for SONEL and our businesses in the Ukraine. 

95 Asia The following table summarizes revenue for the Generation segment in Asia for the periods indicated (in millions): Fiscal Year 2007 versus 2006 Revenue Revenues increased $104 million, or 13%, from the previous year primarily attributable to higher dispatch in Pakistan of $83 million and higher volume and rates at Kelanitissa in Sri Lanka of approximately $30 million offset by volume decreases of approximately $8 million at Chigen in China. 

Fiscal Year 2006 versus 2005 Revenue Revenues increased $185 million, or 31%, from the previous year primarily due to increased sales of approximately $141 million at the two Pakistan power generation plants, Lal Pir and Pak Gen, as well as $31 million of improvements at Kelanitissa primarily due to favorable sales which was comprised of $16 million from volume increases and $15 million from increased rates. 

The following table summarizes gross margin for the Generation segment in Asia for the periods indicated (in millions): Fiscal Year 2007 versus 2006 Gross Margin Gross margin was generally flat decreasing by $8 million, or 4%, to $193 million in 2007 from $201 million in 2006 primarily attributable to decreased volume at Chigen in China. 

Fiscal Year 2006 versus 2005 Gross Margin Gross margin decreased $42 million, or 17%, from the previous year primarily due to increases in variable operating and maintenance costs of $16 million, higher rural grid fund taxes of $6 million and approximately $13 million in lease adjustments at Lal Pir and Pak Gen. 

Corporate and Other Expense Corporate and other expenses include general and administrative expenses related to corporate staff functions and/or initiatives, executive management, finance, legal, human resources, information systems and certain development costs which are not allocable to our business segments. In addition, this line item includes net operating results from other businesses which are immaterial for the purposes of separate segment disclosure and, the effects of eliminating transactions, such as management fee arrangements and self-insurance charges, between the operating segments and corporate. For the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, Corporate and other expense was approximately 2-3% of total revenues. 

96 Corporate and other expense increased $78 million, or 26%, to $379 million in 2007 from $301 million in 2006. The increase is primarily due to higher spending in professional fees of approximately $24 million primarily to complete the restatement and remediation efforts, higher spending due to headcount increases primarily related to the strengthening of our finance organization of approximately $15 million and higher spending on our SAP implementation projects. 

Corporate and other expense increased $80 million, or 36%, to $301 million in 2006 from $221 million in 2005. The increase is primarily due to higher spending of approximately $51 million in corporate development spending primarily in support of Alternative Energy, higher spending on corporate headcount due to the development of Regional Presidents and related to the strengthening of our finance organization, and higher spending on our SAP implementation projects. 

Interest expense Interest expense increased $19 million, or 1%, to $1,788 million in 2007 from $1,769 million in 2006. Interest expense increased primarily due to unfavorable impacts from foreign currency translation in Brazil and interest expense associated with derivatives. These increases were offset by the benefits of debt retirement activity at several of our Latin American subsidiaries and lower interest rates at one of our subsidiaries in Brazil. 

Interest expense decreased $59 million, or 3%, to $1,769 million in 2006 from $1,828 million in 2005. Interest expense decreased primarily due to the benefits of debt retirements principally in the U.S., Brazil and the Dominican Republic, lower interest rates at certain of our businesses, and decreased amortization of deferred financing costs, offset by negative impacts from foreign currency translation in Brazil. 

Interest income Interest income increased $66 million, or 15%, to $500 million in 2007 from $434 million in 2006. Interest income increased primarily due to favorable foreign currency translation on the Brazilian Real and higher cash and short-term investment balances at certain of our subsidiaries, offset by decreases at two of our Brazilian subsidiaries due to lower interest rates. 

Interest income increased $53 million, or 14%, to $434 million in 2006 from $381 million in 2005. Interest income increased primarily due to favorable foreign currency translation on the Brazilian Real, higher cash and short-term investment balances at certain of our subsidiaries, and an increase in interest income at one of our subsidiaries in the Dominican Republic related to the settlement of certain net receivables with the government. 

Other income 97 Other income increased $242 million to $358 million in 2007 from $116 million in 2006. Other income increased primarily due to a $135 million contract settlement gain at one of our subsidiaries in New York, a $93 million gross receipts tax recovery at two of our Latin American subsidiaries, and $25 million related to favorable legal settlements at one of our subsidiaries in Brazil and one of our North American subsidiaries. These increases were offset by lower gains on extinguishment of debt, which were driven in 2006 by debt retirement activities at several of our Latin American businesses. 

Other income decreased $41 million to $116 million in 2006 from $157 million in 2005. Other income decreased primarily due to activity at our Brazilian subsidiaries, including the expiration of a tax liability of $70 million and a gain related to the determination of the collectibility of the Sao Paulo municipality agreement in 2005. 

Other expense Other expense decreased $197 million to $255 million in 2007 from $452 million in 2006. Other expense decreased primarily due to higher losses in 2006 associated with debt retirement activities at several of our Latin American businesses, special obligation charges and the write-down of disallowed regulatory assets at one of our subsidiaries in Brazil in 2006. In 2007, there was a loss of $90 million on the retirement of Senior Notes at the Parent Company, as well as higher losses on sales and disposals of assets at two of our Brazilian subsidiaries. 

Other expense increased $343 million to $452 million in 2006 from $109 million in 2005. Other expense increased primarily due to losses associated with the early extinguishment of debt at several of our Latin American businesses and a loss on the retirement of the parent's senior subordinated debentures, as well as special obligation charges and write-down of disallowed regulatory assets at one of our subsidiaries in Brazil in 2006. 

Impairment Expense As discussed in Note 17 Impairment Expense to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of the Form 10-K, impairment expense for the year 2007 was $408 million and consisted primarily of the following: In the fourth quarter of 2007, the Company recognized a pre-tax impairment charge of approximately $14 million related to a $52 million prepayment advanced to AgCert for a specified amount of future Certified Emission Reduction ("CER"). AgCert, a United Kingdom based corporation that produces emission reduction credits, notified AES that it was not able to meet its contractual obligations to deliver CERs, which triggered an analysis of the asset's recoverability and resulted in the asset impairment charge. Also during the fourth quarter of 2007, there was a pre-tax 98 impairment charge of approximately $352 million at Uruguaiana, a thermoelectric plant located in Brazil. The impairment was the result of an analysis of Uruguaiana's long-lived assets, which was triggered by the combination of gas curtailments and increases in the spot market price of energy. In August 2007, there was a pre-tax impairment charge of approximately $25 million at our Placerita subsidiary, a gas-fired combined cycle generation plant located in the United States. The fixed asset impairment was caused by damage sustained to one of the plant's gas turbines. Also during the third quarter of 2007, a pre-tax fixed asset impairment charge of approximately $10 million was recognized related to the curtailment of operations at Coal Creek Minerals, LLC, a coal mining company owned by our subsidiary Cavanal Minerals located in the United States. 

Impairment expense for the year 2006 was $17 million and consisted primarily of the following: During the fourth quarter of 2006, there was a pre-tax impairment charge of $6 million related to AES China Generating Co. Ltd. ("Chigen") equity investment in Wuhu, a coal-fired plant located in China. The equity impairment in Wuhu was required as a result of a goodwill impairment analysis at Chigen. During the third quarter of 2006, there was an impairment charge of $5 million related to a decrease in the market value of five held for sale gas turbines at our subsidiary Itabo located in the Dominican Republic. 

Impairment expense for the year 2005 was $16 million and consisted primarily of the following: During the third quarter of 2005, there was a pre-tax impairment charge of $6 million related to Totem Gas Storage, LLC ("Totem"). The investment asset impairment was due to AES's notification from the sole managing member's intention to dissolve, liquidate, and terminate Totem. This charge, combined with a $1.5 million impairment recognized in the fourth quarter of 2004, represented a complete write-down of AES's investment in Totem. During the first quarter of 2005, there was a pre-tax impairment charge of $5 million related to AES Southland ("Southland"). The fixed asset impairment was booked when, in the course of evaluating the impairment of long-lived assets in accordance with SFAS No. 144, it was determined that the net book value of the peaker units were not fully realizable. During the fourth quarter of 2005, there was an additional pre-tax impairment charge of $2.5 million which represented the remaining carrying value of these units. 

Gain on sale of investments Gain on sale of investments increased $36 million, or 37%, to $134 million in 2007 from $98 million in 2006. Gain on sale of investments for the year ended 2007 consisted primarily of the following: In May 2007, we sold a 0.91% ownership in Gener for a net gain of $10 million. 

 In October 2007, we sold an additional 10.18% ownership in Gener for a net gain of $124 million. 

Gain on sale of investments for the year ended 2006 consisted primarily of the following: In March 2006, we sold our equity investment in a power project in Canada (Kingston) for a net gain of $87 million. 

 In September 2006, we transferred Infoenergy, a wholly owned AES subsidiary, to Brasiliana for a net gain of $10 million. Brasiliana is 53.85% owned by BNDES, but controlled by AES. This transaction was part of the Company's agreement with BNDES to terminate the Sul Option. 

There was no gain on sale of investments for the year ended 2005. 

99 Loss on sale of subsidiary stock There was no loss of sale of subsidiary stock for the year ended 2007. As discussed in Note 14 Stockholders' Equity to the Consolidated Financial Statements, in September 2006, Brasiliana's wholly owned subsidiary, Transg s sold a 33% economic ownership in Eletropaulo, a regulated electric utility in Brazil. Despite the reduction in economic ownership, there was no change in Brasiliana's voting interest in Eletropaulo and Brasiliana continues to control Eletropaulo. Brasiliana received $522 million in net proceeds on the sale. On October 5, 2006 Transg s, sold an additional 5% economic ownership in Eletropaulo for $78 million in net proceeds. For the year ended December 31, 2006, AES recognized a pre-tax loss of $535 million primarily as a result of the recognition of previously deferred currency translation losses. 

There was no loss on sale of subsidiary stock for the year ended 2005. 

Foreign currency transaction gains (losses) on net monetary position The following table summarizes the gains (losses) on the Company's net monetary position from foreign currency transaction activities: (1) Includes $22 million, $51 million and $117 million of losses on foreign currency derivative contracts for December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. 

The Company recognized $24 million foreign currency transaction gains for the year ended December 31, 2007 compared to losses of $80 million for the year ended December 31, 2006. The $104 million increase was primarily due to fluctuations in Brazil, AES Corporation, Pakistan, Kazakhstan, Argentina and Colombia. 

The decrease in foreign currency transaction losses in Brazil of $54 million is due to a decrease in foreign currency transaction losses of $45 million in Eletropaulo primarily as a result of swap contracts that were fully paid and executed in 2006 as Eletropaulo converted U.S. Dollar debt to Brazilian Real debt. Eletropaulo also experienced higher foreign currency transaction gains of $63 million associated with energy purchases denominated in U.S. Dollar as the Brazilian Real appreciated 21% for the year ended December 31, 2007. Sul extinguished U.S. Dollar denominated debt in the second quarter of 2006, resulting in less foreign currency transaction gains in 2007 of $44 million. The change in the functional currency of Brasiliana Energia, S.A. to Brazilian Real in the fourth quarter of 2006 resulted in less foreign currency transaction losses of $13 million in 2007 as no foreign currency transaction gains or losses were recorded in 2007. Additionally, foreign currency transaction losses decreased by 100 $36 million related to a forward exchange contract at Tiet during the third quarter of 2006 that was fully paid and executed by the end of 2006. 

The $31 million foreign currency gain at AES Corporation for the year ended December 31, 2007 compared to the $17 million loss for the year ended December 31, 2006 is primarily the result of favorable exchange rates for debt denominated in British Pounds and Euros. 

The reduction of $14 million in foreign currency transaction loss at Pakistan for the year ended December 31, 2007 is primarily due to a repayment of a substantial amount of foreign currency denominated debt and the depreciation of the Pakistani Rupee. 

The favorable change in foreign currency transaction gains in Kazakhstan of $9 million for the year ended December 31, 2007, is primarily due to $12 million foreign currency transaction gains recorded on debt denominated in currencies other than the Kazakh Tenge functional currency and $3 million foreign currency transaction losses related to energy sales denominated and fixed in the U.S. Dollar. 

The increase in foreign currency transaction losses in Argentina of $5 million is primarily due to the devaluation of the Argentine Peso by 3% for the year ended December 31, 2007 compared to 2006, resulting in foreign currency transaction losses of $11 million in Alicura associated with its U.S. Dollar denominated debt. 

The increase in foreign currency transaction losses in Colombia of $6 million is primarily due to the appreciation of the Colombian Peso by 11% for the year ended December 31, 2007 compared to 2006 at Chivor (a U.S. Dollar functional currency subsidiary). 

The Company recognized foreign currency transaction losses of $80 million in 2006 compared to losses from foreign currency transactions of $143 million in 2005. The $63 million decrease in losses for 2006 as compared to 2005 was primarily related to lower foreign currency transaction losses in Brazil and Chile offset by increased foreign currency transaction losses at the Parent Company. Foreign currency movements typically result from changes in U.S. Dollar exchange rates at subsidiaries whose functional currency is not the U.S. Dollar, as well as gains or losses on monetary assets and liabilities denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the entity and gains or losses on foreign currency derivatives. 

The reduction in foreign currency transaction losses in Brazil is primarily due to a reduction in derivative transaction losses as a result of the reduction in U.S. Dollar denominated debt balances at Eletropaulo partially offset by a decrease in foreign currency transaction gains associated with U.S. Dollar denominated debt balances as the Brazilian Real appreciated 13% in 2006 as compared to 2005. The reduction in foreign currency transaction losses in Chile is primarily due to the devaluation of the Chilean Peso by 4% in 2006 versus 2005, resulting in decreased losses on foreign currency derivative contracts at Gener. 

Equity in earnings of affiliates Equity in earnings of affiliates increased $3 million, or 4%, to $76 million in 2007 from $73 million in 2006. The increase in 2007 is primarily due to Cartagena being operational for the full year and the absence of liquidated damages incurred in 2006 for construction delays. The increase was partially offset by decreased earnings in 2007 at AES Barry due to proceeds received in 2006 from the settlement of a legal claim that did not recur in 2007. 

Equity in earnings of affiliates increased $7 million, or 11%, to $73 million in 2006 from $66 million in 2005. The increase was primarily due to the settlement of a legal claim in 2006 related to AES Barry, an equity method investment of AES during the first quarter of 2006, and higher earnings at several affiliates in Latin America. The increase was offset by the impact of increased losses at 101 Cartagena, an equity method investment in Spain, in 2006 primarily due to $35 million in liquidated damages incurred in 2006 related to construction delays that were paid to the offtaker. 

Other non-operating expense Other non-operating expense was $57 million in 2007 and was due to the other than temporary impairment of the Company's investment in AgCert. The Company acquired a 9.9% investment in AgCert, a U.K. based corporation that produces emission reduction credits, in May 2006 and, as required by GAAP, treated these securities as "available for sale". The market value of these securities, based on traded market prices on the London Stock Exchange, materially declined during 2007. Based on accounting guidance outlined in SFAS No. 115, Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities , ("SFAS No. 115"), management concluded that the decline was "other than temporary" and recognized an impairment charge of $52 million in the year ended December 31, 2007. Additionally, a charge of $5 million was recognized for the decrease in value of the AgCert warrants. At December 31, 2007, the investment balance is zero. 

Income taxes Income tax expense related to continuing operations increased $323 million to $685 million in 2007 from $362 million in 2006. The Company's effective tax rates were 42% for 2007 and 36% for 2006. The increase in the 2007 effective tax rate was due, in part, to an impairment at Uruguaiana for which no tax benefit was recorded, the impact of an appreciating Real in certain of our Brazilian subsidiaries, and the impact of income tax law changes in Mexico, partially offset by the nontaxable gain on the sales of shares of one of the Company's Chilean subsidiaries and a release of valuation allowance at one of our subsidiaries in Argentina. 

Income tax expense related to continuing operations decreased $111 million to $362 million in 2006 from $473 million in 2005. The Company's effective tax rates were 36% for 2006 and 41% for 2005. The reduction in the 2006 effective tax rate was due, in part, to the second quarter 2006 release of a $43 million valuation allowance at the Company's Brazilian subsidiary, Eletropaulo, related to its deferred tax assets on certain pension obligations, a decrease in U.S. taxes on distributions from certain non-U.S. subsidiaries due to recent changes in tax laws, and the sale of Kingston in the first quarter of 2006, the gain on which was not taxable. The reduction in the 2006 effective tax rate was offset in part by the Special Obligation liabilities recorded at Eletropaulo and Sul. 

Minority interest Minority interest expense, net of tax, decreased $29 million to $434 million in 2007 from $463 million in 2006. The decrease is primarily due to the recognition of previously deferred currency translation losses associated with the sale of Eletropaulo shares during the third quarter 2006, resulting in a decrease of our economic ownership in Eletropaulo from 34% to 16%. See Note 14 Stockholders' Equity to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Form 10-K for a further discussion of the sale of Eletropaulo shares and the Brasiliana restructuring. The decrease is also attributable to the minority interest impact of the impairment recognized at Uruguaiana, a Brazilian subsidiary, offset by increased earnings at Tiet , another Brazilian subsidiary. 

Minority interest expense, net of tax, increased $144 million to $463 million in 2006 from $319 million in 2005. The increase is primarily due to higher earnings from our Brazilian companies offset by a decrease in the third quarter of 2006 in our economic ownership in Eletropaulo from 34% to 16%. 

102 Discontinued operations As discussed in Note 20 Discontinued Operations and Businesses Held for Sale to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Form 10-K, on February 22, 2007, the Company entered into a definitive agreement with PDVSA to sell all of its shares of EDC, a distribution business located in Venezuela and reported in the Latin America Utilities segment, for $739 million net of withholding taxes. In addition, the agreement provided for the payment of a $120 million dividend in 2007. In May 2007, the Company reached an agreement to sell 100% of its indirect interest in two biomass fired power plants located in central California (the Delano and Mendota facilities) for $51 million. These facilities, along with an associated management company (together, the "Central Valley Businesses") were included in the North America Generation segment. During 2006, we discontinued certain businesses including Eden, a Latin America Utilities business located in Argentina and AES Indian Queens Power Limited and AES Indian Queens Operations Limited, collectively "IQP", which is an Open Cycle Gas Turbine located in the U.K. 

In 2007, income from operations of discontinued businesses, net of tax, was $71 million related to the operations of EDC and Central Valley. 

In 2006, income from operations of discontinued businesses, net of tax, was $107 million related to the operations of EDC, Central Valley, Eden and IQP. 

In 2005, income from operations of discontinued businesses, net of tax, was $188 million. Income from operations of EDC, Central Valley, Eden and IQP totaled approximately $157 million for 2005. Additionally, a reversal of approximately $31 million was recognized in the third quarter of 2005 at Eden, related to the release of a valuation allowance previously recognized against its net deferred tax assets. 

Extraordinary item As discussed in Note 6 Investments in and Advances to Affiliates to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Form 10-K, in May 2006, AES purchased an additional 25% interest in Itabo, a power generation business located in the Dominican Republic for approximately $23 million. Prior to May, the Company held a 25% interest in Itabo, through its Gener subsidiary, and had accounted for the investment using the equity method of accounting with a corresponding investment balance reflected in the "Investments in and advances to affiliates" line item on the consolidated balance sheets. As a result of the transaction, the Company consolidates Itabo and, therefore, the investment balance has been reclassified to the appropriate line items on the consolidated balance sheets with a corresponding minority interest liability for the remaining 50% interest not owned by AES. The Company realized an after-tax extraordinary gain of $21 million as a result of the transaction due to an excess of the fair value of the noncurrent assets over the purchase price. 

Critical Accounting Estimates The Consolidated Financial Statements of AES are prepared in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America, which requires the use of estimates, judgments, and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the periods presented. AES's significant accounting policies are described in Note 1 General and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Form 10-K. 

An accounting estimate is considered critical if: the estimate requires management to make assumptions about matters that were highly uncertain at the time the estimate was made; 103 different estimates reasonably could have been used; or the impact of the estimates and assumptions on financial condition or operating performance is material. 

Management believes that the accounting estimates employed are appropriate and the resulting balances are reasonable; however, actual results could differ from the original estimates, requiring adjustments to these balances in future periods. Management has discussed these critical accounting policies with the audit committee, as appropriate. Listed below are certain significant estimates and assumptions used in the preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Income Tax Reserves We are subject to income taxes in both the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Our worldwide income tax provision requires significant judgment and is based on calculations and assumptions that are subject to examination by the Internal Revenue Service and other taxing authorities. The Company and certain of its subsidiaries are under examination by relevant taxing authorities for various tax years. The Company regularly assesses the potential outcome of these examinations in each of the taxing jurisdictions when determining the adequacy of the provision for income taxes. The Company adopted Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") Interpretation ("FIN") No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes , ("FIN No. 48") effective January 1, 2007. The Interpretation prescribes a more-likely-than-not recognition threshold and establishes new measurement requirements for financial statement reporting of an entity's income tax positions. Tax reserves have been established, which the Company believes to be adequate in relation to the potential for additional assessments. Once established, reserves are adjusted only when there is more information available or when an event occurs necessitating a change to the reserves. While the Company believes that the amount of the tax estimates are reasonable, it is possible that the ultimate outcome of current or future examinations may exceed current reserves in amounts that could be material. 

Goodwill We test goodwill for impairment annually and whenever events or circumstances make it more likely than not that impairment may have occurred, such as a significant adverse change in the business climate or a decision to sell or dispose all or a portion of a business unit. Determining whether an impairment has occurred requires valuation of the respective business unit, which we estimate using a discounted cash flow method. In applying this methodology, we rely on a number of factors, including actual operating results, future business plans, economic projections and market data. 

If this analysis indicates goodwill is impaired, measuring the impairment requires a fair value estimate of each identified tangible and intangible asset. In this case, we supplement the cash flow approach discussed above with appraisals, as appropriate. 

Regulatory Assets and Liabilities The Company accounts for certain of its regulated operations under the provisions of SFAS No. 71, Accounting for the Effects of Certain Types of Regulation, ( "SFAS No. 71" ) . As a result, AES recognizes assets and liabilities that result from the regulated ratemaking process that would not be recognized under GAAP for non-regulated entities. Regulatory assets generally represent incurred costs that have been deferred because such costs are probable of future recovery in customer rates. Regulatory liabilities generally represent obligations to make refunds to customers for previous collections for costs that are not likely to be incurred or included in future rate initiatives. Management continually assesses whether the regulatory assets are probable of future recovery by considering factors such as applicable regulatory changes, recent rate orders applicable to other regulated entities and the 104 status of any pending or potential deregulation legislation. If future recovery of costs ceases to be probable, the asset write-offs would be required to be recognized in operating income. 

Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities We enter into various derivative transactions in order to hedge our exposure to certain market risks. We primarily use derivative instruments to manage our interest rate, commodity, and foreign currency exposures. We do not enter into derivative transactions for trading purposes. 

Under SFAS No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities as amended, ("SFAS No. 133"), we recognize all derivatives as either assets or liabilities in the balance sheet and measure those instruments at fair value except where derivatives qualify and are designated as "normal purchase/ normal sale" transactions. Changes in fair value of derivatives are recognized in earnings unless specific hedge criteria are met. Income and expense related to derivative instruments are recognized in the same category as generated by the underlying asset or liability. 

SFAS No. 133 enables companies to designate qualifying derivatives as hedging instruments based on the exposure being hedged. These hedge designations include fair value hedges and cash flow hedges. Changes in the fair value of a derivative that is highly effective and is designated and qualifies as a fair value hedge, are recognized in earnings as offsets to the changes in fair value of the exposure being hedged. Changes in the fair value of a derivative that is highly effective and is designated as and qualifies as a cash flow hedge, are deferred in accumulated other comprehensive income and are recognized into earnings as the hedged transactions occur. Any ineffectiveness is recognized in earnings immediately. For all hedge contracts, the Company provides formal documentation of the hedge and effectiveness testing in accordance with SFAS No. 133. 

As a result of uncertainty, complexity and judgment, accounting estimates related to derivative accounting could result in material changes to our financial statements under different conditions or utilizing different assumptions. As a part of accounting for these derivatives, we make estimates concerning volatilities, market liquidity, future commodity prices, interest rates, credit ratings, and exchange rates. 

AES generally uses quoted exchange prices to the extent they are available to determine the fair value of derivatives. In the absence of actively quoted market prices, we seek indicative price information from external sources, including broker quotes and industry publications. If pricing information from external sources is not available, AES will estimate prices, when possible, based on available historical and near-term future price information as well as utilizing statistical methods. When external valuation models are not available, the Company utilizes internal models for valuation. For individual contracts, the use of different valuation models or assumptions could have a material effect on the calculated fair value. 

New Accounting Pronouncements SFAS No. 157: Fair Value Measurements In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157, Fair Value Measurement , ("SFAS No. 157"). SFAS No. 157 provides enhanced guidance for using fair value to measure assets and liabilities. The standard applies whenever other standards require (or permit) assets or liabilities to be measured at fair value. The standard does not expand the use of fair value in any new circumstances. 

The standard clarifies that for items that are not actively traded, such as certain kinds of derivatives, fair value should reflect the price in a transaction with a market participant, including an adjustment for risk, not just the Company's mark-to-model value. The standard establishes a fair value hierarchy that prioritizes the information used to develop assumptions. The fair value hierarchy gives the highest priority to quoted prices in active markets and the lowest priority to unobservable data. Under the standard, fair value measurements would be separately disclosed by level within the fair value hierarchy with expanded disclosure for those measurements based on unobservable data. 

105 SFAS No. 157 will apply to our interim and annual financial statements for periods beginning after January 1, 2008. There is no cumulative impact of the adoption of SFAS No. 157 for AES. In February 2008, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position ("FSP") No. 157-1, Application of FASB Statement No. 157 to FASB Statement No. 13 and Other Accounting Pronouncements That Address Fair Value Measurements for Purposes of Lease Classification or Measurement Under Statement 13 , ("FSP No. 157-1") and FSP No. 157-2, Effective Date of FASB Statement No. 157 , ("FSP No. 157-2".) FSP No. 157-1 excludes SFAS No. 13, Accounting for Leases, ("SFAS No. 13") and most other accounting pronouncements that address fair value measurement of leases from the scope of SFAS No. 157. The FSP was issued because the FASB had not intended SFAS No. 157 to change lease accounting. FSP No. 157-2 delays the effective date of SFAS No. 157 for all nonrecurring fair value measurements of nonfinancial assets and liabilities until fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2008, or January 1, 2009 for AES. 

SFAS No. 159: The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities including an amendment of FAS 115 In February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 159, The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities including an amendment of FAS 115, ("SFAS No. 159"), which allows entities to choose, at specified election dates, to measure eligible financial assets and liabilities at fair value that are not otherwise required to be measured at fair value. If a company elects the fair value option for an eligible item, changes in that item's fair value in subsequent reporting periods must be recognized in current earnings. SFAS No. 159 also establishes presentation and disclosure requirements designed to draw comparison between entities that elect different measurement attributes for similar assets and liabilities. SFAS No. 159 is effective for the Company on January 1, 2008. As allowed by the standard, the Company has elected not to adopt SFAS No.159 for the measurement of any eligible assets or liabilities. 

SFAS No. 141(R): Business Combinations and SFAS No. 160: Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements, an amendment of ARB No. 51 In December 2007 the FASB issued SFAS No. 141 (revised 2007), Business Combinations, ("SFAS No. 141(R)") and SFAS No. 160, Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements an amendment of ARB No. 51, ("SFAS No. 160"). SFAS No. 141(R) will significantly change how business acquisitions are accounted for at the acquisition date and in subsequent periods. The standard changes the accounting at the acquisition date to a fair value based approach rather than the cost allocation approach currently used. Other differences include changes in the accounting for acquisition related costs, contingencies and income taxes and other relevant items. SFAS No. 160 changes the accounting and reporting for minority interests, which will now be classified as a component of equity and will be referred to as noncontrolling interests. SFAS No. 141(R) and SFAS No. 160 will be effective for public and private companies for fiscal years beginning on or after December 15, 2008, which is the year beginning January 1, 2009 for AES. SFAS No. 141(R) and SFAS No. 160 will be applied prospectively, except for the presentation and disclosure requirements in SFAS No. 160 for existing minority interests which will require retroactive adoption. Early adoption is prohibited. AES has not begun its analysis of the potential future impact of SFAS No. 141(R) and SFAS No. 160. 

Capital Resources and Liquidity Overview The AES Corporation is a holding company that conducts all of its operations through subsidiaries. We have, to the extent achievable, utilized non-recourse debt to fund a significant portion of the capital expenditures and investments required to construct and acquire our electric power plants, distribution companies and related assets. This type of financing is non-recourse to other subsidiaries, affiliates and to us (as the "Parent Company"), and is generally secured by the capital stock, physical 106 assets, contracts and cash flow of the related subsidiary or affiliate. At December 31, 2007, we had $5.6 billion of recourse debt and $12.4 billion of non-recourse debt outstanding. For more information on our long-term debt see Note 8 Long-Term Debt to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Form 10-K. 

In addition to non-recourse debt, if available, we, as the Parent Company, provide a portion, or in certain instances all, of the remaining long-term financing or credit required to fund development, construction or acquisition. These investments have generally taken the form of equity investments or loans, which are subordinated to the project's non-recourse loans. The AES Corporation generally obtains the funds for these investments from our cash flows from operations and/or the proceeds from our issuances of debt, common stock, and other securities as well as proceeds from the sales of assets. Similarly, in certain of our businesses, the AES Corporation may provide financial guarantees or other credit support for the benefit of lenders or counterparties who have entered into contracts for the purchase or sale of electricity with our subsidiaries. In such circumstances, if a subsidiary defaults on its payment or supply obligation, the AES Corporation is responsible for the subsidiary's obligations up to the amount provided for in the relevant guarantee or other credit support. 

We expect to continue to seek, where possible, non-recourse debt financing in connection with the assets or businesses that our affiliates or we may develop, construct or acquire. However, depending on market conditions and the unique characteristics of individual businesses, non-recourse debt may not be available or may not be available on economically attractive terms. If we decide not to provide any additional funding or credit support to the subsidiary that is under construction or has near-term debt payment obligations and that subsidiary is unable to obtain additional non-recourse debt, our investment may become impaired, or such subsidiary may become insolvent and we may lose our investment in such subsidiary. Additionally, if any of our subsidiaries lose a significant customer, the subsidiary may need to restructure the non-recourse debt financing. If such subsidiary is unable to successfully complete a restructuring of the non-recourse debt, our investment may become impaired, or we may lose our investment in such subsidiary. At December 31, 2007, we had provided outstanding financial and performance related guarantees or other credit support commitments to or for the benefit of our subsidiaries, which were limited by the terms of the agreements, in an aggregate of approximately $807 million (excluding those collateralized by letters of credit and other obligations discussed below). 

As a result of the AES Corporation's below-investment-grade rating, counter-parties may be unwilling to accept our general unsecured commitments to provide credit support. Accordingly, with respect to both new and existing commitments, we may be required to provide some other form of assurance, such as a letter of credit, to backstop or replace our credit support. We may not be able to provide adequate assurances to such counterparties. In addition, to the extent we are required and able to provide letters of credit or other collateral to such counterparties; this will reduce the amount of credit available to us to meet our other liquidity needs. At December 31, 2007, we had $512 million in letters of credit outstanding, which operate to guarantee performance relating to certain project construction and development activities and subsidiary operations. All of these letters of credit were provided under our revolving credit facility and senior unsecured credit facility. We pay letter of credit fees ranging from 1.63% to 3.94% per annum on the outstanding amounts. In addition, we had less than $1 million in surety bonds outstanding at December 31, 2007. Management believes that cash on hand, along with cash generated through operations, and our financing availability will be sufficient to fund normal operations, capital expenditures, and debt service requirements. 

Many of our subsidiaries depend on timely and continued access to capital markets to manage their liquidity needs. The inability to raise capital on favorable terms, to refinance existing indebtedness or to fund operations and other commitments during times of political or economic uncertainty may adversely affect those subsidiaries' financial condition and results of operations. In addition, changes in 107 the timing of tariff increases or delays in the regulatory determinations under the relevant concessions could affect the cash flows and results of operations in our regulated utility businesses. 

Capital Expenditures The Company spent $2.5 billion, $1.5 billion and $0.8 billion on capital expenditures in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. We anticipate capital expenditures during 2008 to be approximately $3.3 billion. Planned capital expenditures include new project construction costs, environmental pollution control construction and expenditures for existing assets to extend their useful lives. Capital expenditures for 2008 are expected to be financed using internally generated cash provided by operations, project level financing and possibly debt or equity financing at the AES parent company level. 

The Company continues to assess the possible need for capital expenditures associated with international, federal, regional and state regulation of GHG emissions from electric power generation facilities. Legislation and regulations regarding GHG emissions, if enacted, may place significant costs on GHG emissions from fossil fuel-fired electric power generation facilities, particularly coal-fired facilities, and in order to comply CO 2 emitting facilities may purchase additional GHG emissions allowances or offsets under cap-and-trade programs or install new pollution-control equipment to capture and reduce the amount of GHG emitted from the facilities, in the event that reliable technology to do so is developed. The capital expenditures required to comply with any future GHG legislation and regulations could be significant and unless such costs can be passed on to customers, such regulations could impair the profitability of some of the electric power generation facilities operated by our subsidiaries or render certain of them uneconomical to operate, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations and financial condition. 

With respect to our operations outside the United States, certain of the businesses operated by the Company's subsidiaries are subject to compliance with EV ETS and the Kyoto Protocol in certain countries and other country-specific programs to regulate GHG emissions. To date, compliance with the Kyoto Protocol and EU ETS has not had a material adverse effect on the Company's consolidated results of operations, financial condition and cash flows because of, among other factors, the cost of GHG emission allowances and/or the ability of our businesses to pass the cost of purchasing such allowances on to counterparties. 

As discussed in Item 1 Business Regulatory Matters Environmental and Land Use Regulations, in the United States there presently are no federal laws or regulations regulating GHG emissions, although several legislative proposals are currently under consideration. In 2006, the Company's subsidiaries operated businesses which had total approximate CO 2 emissions of 84 million metric tonnes (ownership adjusted and including approximately 6 million metric tonnes from EDC which the Company sold in 2007). Approximately 38 million metric tonnes of the 84 million metric tonnes were emitted in the United States (both figures ownership adjusted). Approximately 12 million metric tonnes were emitted in U.S. states participating in the Regional Green House Gas Initiative (RGGI). At this time, the federal legislative proposals under consideration applicable to electric power generation facilities incorporate market-based cap-and-trade programs which authorize facilities to comply through the acquisition of emissions allowances in lieu of capital expenditures. Certain of the states, either alone or as part of a regional initiative, in which our subsidiaries operate are in the process of developing programs to reduce GHG emissions, primarily CO 2 , from the electric power generation facilities through cap-and-trade programs, which would allow CO 2 emitting facilities to comply by purchase additional GHG emissions allowances or offsets under cap-and-trade programs or by installing new pollution-control equipment to capture and reduce the amount of GHG emitted from the facilities, in the event that reliable technology to do so is developed. We believe that legislative or regulatory actions, if enacted, may require a material increase in capital expenditures at our subsidiaries. 

108 The actual impact on our subsidiaries' capital expenditures from any potential federal program to regulate and reduce GHG emissions, if enacted, and the state and regional programs in the process of development, will depend on a number of factors, including among others, the GHG reductions required under any such legislation or regulations, the price and availability of offsets, the extent to which our subsidiaries would be entitled to receive GHG emissions allowances without having to purchase them, the quantity of allowances which our subsidiaries would have to purchase, the price of allowances, our subsidiaries' ability to recover or pass through costs incurred to comply with any legislative or regulatory requirements that are ultimately imposed and the use of market-based compliance options such as cap-and-trade programs. Another factor is the success of our climate solutions business, which may generate credits that will help offset our GHG emissions. However, as set forth in the Risk Factor titled "Our Alternative Energy businesses face uncertain operational risks," there is no guarantee that the climate solutions business will be successful. And even if our climate solutions business is successful, the level of benefit is unclear with regard to the impact of legislation or litigation concerning GHG emissions. 

Cash Flows At December 31, 2007, cash and cash equivalents increased by $700 million from December 31, 2006 to a total of $2.1 billion. The change in cash was due to $2.4 billion of cash provided by operating activities, $2.0 billion of cash used for investing activities, $244 million of cash provided by financing activities and the positive effect of exchange rates on cash of $69 million. 

Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities increased by $6 million to $2,357 million during 2007 compared to $2,351 million during 2006. Excluding the decrease in net cash provided by operating activities from EDC, which was sold in May 2007, net cash provided by operating activities would have increased $119 million. This increase of $6 million was primarily due to: $251 million increase in net earnings (adjusted for non cash items); $61 million decrease in payments related to an energy price swap in 2006 at New York in the U.S. and derivatives in 2006 at Eletropaulo in Brazil; $50 million decrease in pension payments; $47 million increase as a result of settlements paid in the prior year; offset by $150 million increase in cash used for working capital; $142 million increase in cash taxes paid; $43 million decrease as a result of settlements received in the prior year; $44 million increase in interest paid; and other changes in accrued liabilities. 

109 The $594 million increase in "adjustments to net income" was primarily due to the reversal of non-cash adjustments for: $470 million loss in 2006 on the sale by Transg s of Eletropaulo shares; $135 million settlement gain in 2007 for a lease buyout at New York; $133 million increase in gain on sale of investments due to the 11.09% sale of ownership in Gener in Chile in 2007; $55 million decrease in loss on extinguishment of debt compared to 2006 at several of our Latin American businesses, offset by an increase in 2007 at the Parent Company. These increases were offset by $493 million of non-cash adjustments attributable to EDC, including asset impairment expense of $680 million; $391 million increase in asset impairment expense primarily at Uruguaiana in Brazil; $220 million increase in provision for deferred taxes; and $9 million increase in depreciation and amortization expense. 

The following table includes details of changes in operating assets and liabilities on the face of the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows: Accounts receivable increased in the current year primarily due to the increase of receivables from distributors without contracts associated with the government's resolution Resoluci n Ministerial No. 88, ("RM 88") at Gener. This resolution requires the generation companies to sell electricity at spot price to small or medium size distribution companies that could not contract its required energy and allows these distributors to pay the regulated price at the following month of delivery and defer the payment of the difference between the spot price and the regulated price. Accounts receivable also increased as a result of increased sales due to higher pricing at Eastern Energy and IPL in the U.S. and increased volume at our Panama subsidiary. 

Inventory increased in the current year primarily due to a plant outage which resulted in a lack of consumption at Andres in the Dominican Republic. This increase was offset by a decrease in inventory at Eastern Energy due to higher production driven by higher pricing. 

Prepaid expenses and other current assets decreased in the current year due to a decrease in regulatory assets at Eletropaulo associated with an annual tariff readjustment, offset by an increase in value added taxes at Gener as a result of higher fuel oil consumption and an increase in income tax receivables. 

Other assets increased in the current year primarily due to the increase in recoverable taxes at Eletropaulo. 

110 Accounts payable and accrued liabilities decreased in the current year mainly due to a decrease in regulatory liabilities related to free energy reductions and a decrease in efficiency energy costs at Eletropaulo. 

Other liabilities increased in the current year mainly due to an increase in regulatory liabilities at Eletropaulo. 

Investing Activities Net cash used for investing activities in 2007 totaled $1,970 million compared to $907 million during 2006, an increase of $1,063 million. This increase was primarily attributable to the following: Capital expenditures totaled $2,425 million during 2007, a $965 million increase over the $1,460 million balance for 2006. This was mainly due to increased spending of $254 million for the Maritza East 1 lignite-fired power plant in Bulgaria, $109 million for the Changuinola project in Panama, $89 million for the Ventanas coal plant and $44 million for the Santa Lidia project, both at Gener in Chile, $72 million for the flue gas desulphurization plant at Kilroot in Ireland, $54 million at Eletropaulo in Brazil primarily for grid expansion and maintenance projects, $48 million related to our facility in Jordan and $39 million at New York in the U.S. related to Somerset and Cayuga facilities. In addition, there was increased spending related to wind development projects of $233 million at our Alternative Energy Group businesses. These increases were offset by a decrease of $53 million due to the sale of EDC in Venezuela. 

Acquisitions, net of cash acquired totaled $315 million in 2007, a $296 million increase over the $19 million during 2006. This increase was mainly due to the purchase of two 230 MW petroleum coke-fired power plants at TEG/TEP in Mexico in the first quarter of 2007 for approximately $195 million, the purchase of a 51% interest in a joint venture with 26 MW existing capacity and a 390 MW development pipeline of hydroelectric projects in Turkey for approximately $76 million and the purchase of Storm Lake and Lake Benton at Mid-West Wind in the U.S. for approximately $60 million. 

Proceeds from the sales of businesses totaled $1,136 million in 2007 and $898 million in 2006. The proceeds in 2007 included $739 million for the sale of EDC, $331 million for the proceeds from the sale of approximately 11.09% of our shares in AES Gener, $51 million for the sale of Central Valley in the U.S. and $17 million for the sale of Eden in Argentina. In 2006 proceeds included $522 million from the sale by Transg s of Eletropaulo preferred shares and $80 million in a related sale by Brasiliana of its preferred shares in Eletropaulo, $123 million from the sale of approximately 7.6% of our shares in AES Gener, $110 million from the sale of our Kingston business in Canada, $33 million from the sale of unissued shares at EDC and $28 million from the sale of Indian Queens in England. 

The purchase of short-term investments, net of sales totaled $490 million in 2007, a $142 million increase compared to 2006. These transactions included a $167 million increase in net purchases at Uruguaiana in Brazil due to new investments, $166 million increase in net purchases at Eletropaulo due to the restructuring of Eletropaulo shares held by AES Transg s as well as the acquisition of public debt and securities and $96 million increase in net purchases at Ekibastuz in Kazakhstan for loan collateral. This was offset by a $149 million decrease in net purchases at Tiet in Brazil as the result of a change in investment strategy in 2006 from investing in cash equivalents to investing in Brazilian government bonds, $84 million increase in net sales at Brasiliana primarily due to redemptions to provide dividends and the accrued interest on debentures and a $62 million decrease in net purchases at Gener. 

Restricted cash balances increased $28 million in 2007. Restricted cash balances increased $59 million at New York, $30 million at Maritza, $27 million at Mid-West Wind and $21 million at Red Oak in the U.S. These were offset by decreases of $43 million at Kilroot, $33 million at IPL and $16 million at Hawaii. 

111 Proceeds from the sale of emission allowances totaled $17 million in 2007, a $65 million decrease from 2006. These sales occurred primarily at our businesses located in the U.S. and in Europe in 2006. 

Purchases of emission allowances totaled $13 million in 2007, a $64 million decrease from 2006. These purchases were primarily at our businesses located in the U.S. in 2006. Included in the purchases during 2006 is a $45 million commitment to purchase CER credits from AgCert. AgCert is an Ireland-based company which uses agricultural sources to produce GHG emission offsets under the Kyoto protocol. 

Debt service reserves and other assets decreased $122 million in 2007. This was mainly due to decreases of $113 million at Kilroot, $12 million at Pak Gen and $10 million at Lal Pir, both located in Pakistan, and $11 million at Hawaii. These decreases were offset by an increase of $43 million at Eletropaulo. 

Financing Activities Net cash provided by financing activities totaled $244 million during 2007 compared to net cash used of $1,317 million during 2006. This $1,561 million change was primarily attributable to a decrease in cash used for debt, net of repayments of $1,686 million, an increase in contributions from minority interests of $249 million offset by an increase in payments for deferred financing for $11 million and an increase in distributions to minority interests for $364 million. 

Issuances of recourse debt and non-recourse debt during 2007 were $4,297 million compared to issuances of recourse debt, non-recourse debt and revolving credit facilities, net of $3,169 million during 2006. This increase of $1,128 million was primarily due to an increase in recourse debt at the Parent Company of $2 billion; and increases in non-recourse debt at TEG/TEP in Mexico of $454 million and at Eletropaulo in Brazil of $301 million. These increases were offset by a decrease in non-recourse debt at Brasiliana in Brazil for $744 million; at Sul in Brazil for $494 million; at Panama for $293 million, net; at CAESS in El Salvador for $223 million and at Itabo in Dominican Republic for $153 million, net. 

Repayments of recourse debt, non-recourse debt and revolving credit facilities, net during 2007 were $3,651 million compared to repayments of recourse debt and non-recourse debt of $4,209 million during 2006. The decrease of $558 million was primarily due to a decrease in repayments at Brasiliana of $1,032 million; at Sul of $483 million; at Panama of $386 million, net; at Tiet in Brazil of $321 million; and at CAESS of $192 million, net. These decreases were offset by an increase in repayments at the Parent Company for $1,164 million, net and at TEG/TEP for $457 million. 

Minority distributions were $699 million during 2007 compared to $335 million during 2006. This increase of $364 million includes dividends paid to minority shareholders primarily by Eletropaulo for $212 million and by Brasiliana for $141 million and a $26 million return of capital by Barka in Oman to its minority partner. 

Minority contributions were $374 million during 2007 compared to $125 million during 2006. This increase of $249 million was primarily due to contributions received from the tax equity partners in 2007 of $313 million at Buffalo Gap II and $31 million at Mid-West Wind, both located in the U.S., offset by a decrease of $117 million at Buffalo Gap in the U.S in 2006. 

112 Contractual Obligations A summary of our contractual obligations, commitments and other liabilities as of December 31, 2007 is presented in the table below (in millions): (1) Includes recourse and non-recourse debt presented on the Consolidated Financial Statements. Non-recourse debt borrowings are not a direct obligation of AES, the Parent Company. Recourse debt represents the direct borrowings of AES, the Parent Company. See Note 8 Long-Term Debt to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Form 10-K which provides additional disclosure regarding these obligations. These amounts exclude capital lease obligations which are included in the capital lease category,(3) below. 

(2) Interest payments are estimated based on final maturity dates of debt securities outstanding at December 31, 2007 and do not reflect anticipated future refinancing, early redemptions or new debt issuances. Variable rate interest obligations are estimated based on rates as of December 31, 2007. 

(3) Several AES subsidiaries have leases for operating and office equipment and vehicles that are classified as capital leases within Property, Plant and Equipment. Minimum contractual obligations include $111 million of imputed interest. 

(4) The Company was obligated under long-term non-cancelable operating leases, primarily for office rental and site leases. These amounts exclude amounts related to the sale/leaseback discussed below in item (5) . 

(5) Sale/Leaseback Obligations represent a sales/leaseback with operating lease treatment at one of our New York Subsidiaries. 

(6) Operating subsidiaries of the Company have entered into contracts for the purchase of electricity from third parties. 

(7) Operating subsidiaries of the Company have entered into fuel purchase contracts subject to termination only in certain limited circumstances. 

(8) Amounts relate to other contractual obligations where the Company has an enforceable and legally binding agreement to purchase goods or services that specifies all significant terms, including: quantity, pricing, and approximate timing. These amounts include planned capital expenditures that are contractually obligated. 

(9) These amounts do not include current liabilities on the consolidated balance sheet except for the current portion of FIN No. 48 obligations. See the indicated notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Form 10-K for additional information on the items excluded. Derivatives (See Note 9 Derivative Instruments) and incentive compensation are excluded as the Company is not able to reasonably estimate the timing or amount of the future payments. In addition, the amounts do not include: (1) regulatory liabilities (See Note 4 Regulatory Assets and Liabilities), (2) contingencies (See Note 11 Contingencies), (3) pension and other post retirement employee benefit liabilities (see Note 12 Benefit Plans) or (4) any taxes (See Note 18 Income Taxes) except for FIN No. 48 obligations. Noncurrent FIN No. 48 obligations are reflected in the "Other" column of the table above as the Company is not able to reasonably estimate the timing of the future payments. 

113 Parent Company Liquidity The following discussion of "parent company liquidity" has been included because we believe it is a useful measure of the liquidity available to the AES Corporation, or the Parent Company, given the non-recourse nature of most of our indebtedness. Parent company liquidity as outlined below is a non-GAAP measure and should not be construed as an alternative to cash and cash equivalents which are determined in accordance with GAAP, as a measure of liquidity. Cash and cash equivalents are disclosed in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows and the parent only unconsolidated statements of cash flows in Schedule I of this Form 10-K. Parent company liquidity may differ from that, of similarly titled measures used by other companies. The principal sources of liquidity at the parent company level are: dividends and other distributions from our subsidiaries, including refinancing proceeds; proceeds from debt and equity financings at the parent company level, including borrowings under our credit facilities; and proceeds from asset sales. 

Cash requirements at the parent company level are primarily to fund: interest and preferred dividends; principal repayments of debt; acquisitions; construction commitments; other equity commitments; taxes; and parent company overhead and development costs. 

On October 15, 2007, the Company issued $2.0 billion of Senior Unsecured Notes ("Senior Notes") at par. The private placement of Senior Notes consisted of $500 million principal amount of 7.75% Senior Notes due 2015 and $1.5 billion principal amount of 8.0% senior notes due 2017. On December 7, 2007, the Company exchanged the previously issued private placement $2.0 billion senior unsecured notes for registered securities with the same terms through our Form S-4 declared effective on December 19, 2007 filed with the SEC. 

The Company used the net proceeds from the sale of the senior notes primarily to refinance a portion of its recourse debt as discussed below and plans to use the remainder to support near term investments and for general corporate purposes. 

On October 16, 2007, the Company made an offer to repurchase for cash up to $1.24 billion aggregate principal amount of our 8.75% Senior Notes due 2008 (the "2008 Notes"), the 9.00% Second Priority Senior Secured Notes due 2015 (the "2015 Notes") and the 8.75% Second Priority Senior Secured Notes due 2013 (the "2013 Notes" and together with the 2015 Notes, the "Second Priority Notes"). Early settlement for the tender offer was provided on October 30, 2007 with final settlement on November 14, 2007. Pursuant to the terms of the tender offer, the Company repurchased $193 million of the principal amount of the 2008 Notes, the entire $600 million principal amount of the 2015 Notes and $447 million principal amount of the 2013 Notes. The total purchase price for the tender offer was $1.36 billion which included tender premiums and accrued interest of approximately $73 million and $51 million, respectively. The Company recognized a pre-tax loss on the retirement of this debt for the year ended December 31, 2007 of $90 million which included $73 million of tender consideration and a $17 million write-off of unamortized deferred financing costs relating to the 2008, 114 2013 and 2015 Notes. As a result of the final settlement, none of the 2015 Notes, approximately $9.3 million principal amount of the 2008 Notes and approximately $752.6 million principal amount of the 2013 Notes remained outstanding as of December 31, 2007. 

In December 2006, the AES Corporation exercised its right to increase the revolving credit facility by $100 million to a total of $750 million. As of December 31, 2007, there were no outstanding borrowings against the revolving credit facility. The Parent Company had $230 million of letters of credit outstanding against the revolving credit facility as of December 31, 2007. 

The Parent Company entered into a $500 million senior unsecured credit facility agreement effective March 31, 2006. On May 1, 2006, the Parent Company exercised its option to extend the total amount of the senior unsecured credit facility by an additional $100 million to a total of $600 million. At December 31, 2007, the Parent Company had no outstanding borrowings under the senior unsecured credit facility. The Parent Company had $282 million of letters of credit outstanding against the senior unsecured credit facility as of December 31, 2007. The credit facility is being used to support our ongoing share of construction obligation for AES Maritza East 1 and for general corporate purposes. 

The Company defines Parent Company Liquidity as cash available to the parent company plus available borrowings under existing credit facilities. Parent Company Liquidity is reconciled to its most directly comparable GAAP financial measure, "cash and cash equivalents" at December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 as follows: Our recourse debt at year-end was approximately $5.6 billion, $4.8 billion, and $4.9 billion in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Our contingent contractual obligations were $1.3 billion, $995 million, and 115 $802 million at the end of 2007, 2006, and 2005, respectively. The following table sets forth our Parent Company contingent contractual obligations as of December 31, 2007: (1) Less than $1 million in surety bonds outstanding We have a varied portfolio of performance related contingent contractual obligations. These obligations are designed to cover potential risks and only require payment if certain targets are not met or certain contingencies occur. The risks associated with these obligations include change of control, construction cost overruns, subsidiary default, political risk, tax indemnities, spot market power prices, supplies support and liquidated damages under power sales agreements for projects in development, in operation and under construction. While we do not expect that we will be required to fund any material amounts under these contingent contractual obligations during 2008 or beyond, many of the events which would give rise to such obligations are beyond our control. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to fund our obligations under these contingent contractual obligations if we are required to make substantial payments there under. 

While we believe that our sources of liquidity will be adequate to meet our needs through the end of 2008, this belief is based on a number of material assumptions, including, without limitation, assumptions about our ability to access the capital markets, the operating and financial performance of our subsidiaries, exchange rates, power market pool prices, and the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends. In addition, our subsidiaries' ability to declare and pay cash dividends to us (at the parent company level) is subject to certain limitations contained in loans, governmental provisions and other agreements. We can provide no assurance that these sources will be available when needed or that the actual cash requirements will not be greater than anticipated. We have met our interim needs for shorter-term and working capital financing at the parent company level with our revolving credit facility and senior unsecured credit facility. See Item 1A Risk Factors, the AES Corporation is a holding company and its ability to make payments on its outstanding indebtedness, including its public debt securities, is dependent upon the receipt of funds from its subsidiaries by way of dividends, fees, interest, loans or otherwise. 

Various debt instruments at the parent company level, including our senior secured credit facilities, contain certain restrictive covenants. The covenants provide for, among other items: limitations on other indebtedness, liens, investments and guarantees; restrictions on dividends, redemptions, and payments of unsecured and subordinated debt and the use of proceeds; restrictions on mergers and acquisitions, sales of assets, leases, transactions with affiliates and off balance sheet and derivative arrangements; maintenance of certain financial ratios; and 116 financial and other reporting requirements. 

Non-Recourse Debt Financing While the lenders under our non-recourse debt financings generally do not have direct recourse to the Parent Company, defaults thereunder can still have important consequences for our results of operations and liquidity, including, without limitation: reducing our cash flows as the subsidiary will typically be prohibited from distributing cash to the parent level during the time period of any default; triggering our obligation to make payments under any financial guarantee, letter of credit or other credit support we have provided to or on behalf of such subsidiary; causing us to record a loss in the event the lender forecloses on the assets; and triggering defaults in our outstanding debt at the parent level. 

For example, our senior secured credit facilities and outstanding debt securities at the parent level include events of default for certain bankruptcy related events involving material subsidiaries. In addition, our revolving credit agreement at the parent level includes events of default related to payment defaults and accelerations of outstanding debt of material subsidiaries. 

Some of our subsidiaries are currently in default with respect to all or a portion of their outstanding indebtedness. The total debt classified as current in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets related to such defaults was $118 million at December 31, 2007, all of which was non-recourse debt. 

None of the subsidiaries that are currently in default are subsidiaries that currently meet the applicable definition of materiality in AES's corporate debt agreements in order for such defaults to trigger an event of default or permit acceleration under such indebtedness. However, as a result of additional dispositions of assets, other significant reductions in asset carrying values or other matters in the future that may impact our financial position and results of operations, it is possible that one or more of these subsidiaries could fall within the definition of a "material subsidiary" and thereby upon an acceleration trigger an event of default and possible acceleration of the indebtedness under the AES parent company's outstanding debt securities. 

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements In May 1999, one of our subsidiaries acquired six electric generating plants from New York State Electric and Gas. Concurrently, the subsidiary sold two of the plants to an unrelated third party for $666 million and simultaneously entered into a leasing arrangement with the unrelated party. In May 2007, the subsidiary purchased a portion of the lessor's interest in a trust estate that holds the leased plants. Future minimum lease commitments under the lease agreement have been reduced by the subsidiary's interest in the plants. We have accounted for this transaction as a sale/leaseback transaction with operating lease treatment. We expense periodic lease payments as incurred, which amounted to $42 million for the year ended December 31, 2007 and $54 million for each of the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005. We are not subject to any additional liabilities or contingencies if the arrangement terminates and we believe that the dissolution of the off-balance sheet arrangement would have minimal effects on our operating cash flows. The terms of the lease include restrictive covenants such as the maintenance of certain coverage ratios. Historically, the plants have satisfied the restrictive covenants of the lease and there are no known trends or uncertainties that would indicate that the lease will be terminated early. See Note 10 Commitments to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Form 10-K for a more complete discussion of this transaction. 

117 IPL, a consolidated subsidiary of the Company, formed IPL Funding Corporation ("IPL Funding") in 1996 as a special-purpose entity to purchase retail receivables originated by IPL pursuant to a receivables sale agreement entered into with IPL. At the same time, IPL Funding entered into a purchase facility (the "Purchase Facility") with unrelated parties (the "Purchasers") pursuant to which the Purchasers agree to purchase from IPL Funding, on a revolving basis, up to $50 million, of interests in the pool of receivables purchased from IPL. As collections reduce accounts receivable included in the pool, IPL Funding sells ownership interests in additional receivables acquired from IPL to return the ownership interests sold up to a maximum of $50 million, as permitted by the Purchase Facility. During 2007, the Purchase Facility was extended through May 27, 2008. IPL Funding is included in the Consolidated Financial Statements of IPL. Accounts receivable on the Company's Consolidated Balance Sheets are stated net of the $50 million sold. 

IPL retains servicing responsibilities for its role as a collection agent on the amounts due on the sold receivables. However, the Purchasers assume the risk of collection on the purchased receivables without recourse to IPL in the event of a loss. While no direct recourse to IPL exists, it risks loss in the event collections are not sufficient to allow for full recovery of its retained interests. No servicing asset or liability is recognized since the servicing fee paid to IPL approximates a market rate. 

The carrying values of the retained interest is determined by allocating the carrying value of the receivables between the assets sold and the interests retained based on relative fair value. The key assumptions in estimating fair value are credit losses, the selection of discount rates, and expected receivables turnover rate. As a result of short accounts receivable turnover periods and historically low credit losses, the impact of these assumptions have not been significant to the fair value. The hypothetical effect on the fair value of the retained interests assuming both a 10% and a 20% unfavorable variation in credit losses or discount rates is not material due to the short turnover of receivables and historically low credit loss history. 

The losses recognized on the sales of receivables were $3 million, $3 million and $2 million for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. These losses are included in other operating expense on the Consolidated Statements of Operations. The amount of the losses recognized depends on the previous carrying amount of the financial assets involved in the transfer, allocated between the assets sold and the interests that continue to be held by the transferor based on their relative fair value at the date of transfer, and the proceeds received. 

IPL's retained interest in the receivables sold was $64 million and $63 million as of December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. There were no proceeds from new securitizations for each of the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005. Servicing fees of $0.6 million were paid for each of the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005. 

IPL and IPL Funding provide certain indemnities to the Purchasers, including indemnification in the event that there is a breach of representations and warranties made with respect to the purchased receivables. IPL Funding and IPL each have agreed to indemnify the Purchasers on an after-tax basis for any and all damages, losses, claims, liabilities, penalties, taxes, costs and expenses at any time imposed on or incurred by the indemnified parties arising out of or otherwise relating to the purchase facility, subject to certain limitations as defined in the Purchase Facility. 

Under the Purchase Facility, if IPL fails to maintain certain financial covenants regarding interest coverage and debt-to-capital ratios, it would constitute a "termination event." As of December 31, 2007, IPL was in compliance with such covenants. 

As a result of IPL's current credit rating, the facility agent has the ability to (i) replace IPL as the collection agent; and (ii) declare a "lock-box" event. Under a lock-box event or a termination event, the facility agent has the ability to require all proceeds of purchased receivables of IPL to be directed to lock-box accounts within 45 days of notifying IPL. A termination event would also (i) give the facility 118 agent the option to take control of the lock-box account, and (ii) give the Purchasers the option to discontinue the purchase of additional interests in receivables and cause all proceeds of the purchased interests to be used to reduce the Purchaser's investment and to pay other amounts owed to the Purchasers and the facility agent. This would have the effect of reducing the operating capital available to IPL by the aggregate amount of such purchased interests in receivables (currently $50 million). 

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Overview Regarding Market Risks We are exposed to market risks associated with interest rates, foreign exchange rates and commodity prices. We often utilize financial instruments and other contracts to hedge against such fluctuations. We also utilize financial derivatives for the purpose of hedging exposures to market risk. 

Interest Rate Risks We are exposed to risk resulting from changes in interest rates as a result of our issuance of variable-rate debt, fixed-rate debt and trust preferred securities, as well as interest rate swap, cap and floor and option agreements. 

Decisions on the fixed-floating debt ratio are made to be consistent with the risk factors faced by individual businesses or plants. Depending on whether a plant's capacity payments or revenue stream is fixed or varies with inflation, we partially hedge against interest rate fluctuations by arranging fixed-rate or variable-rate financing. In certain cases, particularly for non-recourse financing, we execute interest rate swap, cap and floor agreements to effectively fix or limit the interest rate exposure on the underlying financing. 

Foreign Exchange Rate Risk In the normal course of business, we are exposed to foreign currency risk and other foreign operations risk that arise from investments in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. A key component of this risk stems from the fact that some of our foreign subsidiaries and affiliates utilize currencies other than our consolidated reporting currency, the U.S. Dollar. Additionally, certain of our foreign subsidiaries and affiliates have entered into monetary obligations in U.S. Dollars or currencies other than their own functional currencies. Primarily, we are exposed to changes in the exchange rate between the U.S. Dollar and the following currencies: Brazilian Real, Argentine Peso, Kazakhstani Tenge, British Pound, Euro, Colombian Peso, and Chilean Peso. These subsidiaries and affiliates have attempted to limit potential foreign exchange exposure by entering into revenue contracts that adjust to changes in foreign exchange rates. We also use foreign currency forwards, swaps and options, where possible, to manage our risk related to certain foreign currency fluctuations. 

Commodity Price Risk We are exposed to the impact of market fluctuations in the price of electricity, fuels and environmental credits. Although we primarily consist of businesses with long-term contracts or retail sales concessions, a portion of our current and expected future revenues are derived from businesses without significant long-term revenue or supply contracts. These businesses subject our results of operations to the volatility of prices for electricity, fuels and environmental credits in competitive markets. We have used a hedging strategy, where appropriate, to hedge our financial performance against the effects of fluctuations in energy commodity prices. The implementation of this strategy can involve the use of commodity forward contracts, futures, swaps and options. Some businesses hedge certain aspects of their commodity risks using financial hedge instruments. We also enter into short-term contracts for the supply of electricity and fuel in other competitive markets in which we operate. 

119 Value at Risk One approach we use to assess our risk and our subsidiaries' risk is value at risk ("VaR"). VaR measures the potential loss in a portfolio's value due to market volatility, over a specified time horizon, stated with a specific degree of probability. In particular, we measure Analytic VaR, which is calculated based on the volatilities and correlations of the different risk exposures of the portfolio. The quantification of market risk using VaR provides a consistent measure of risk across diverse markets and instruments. We adopted the VaR approach because we feel that statistical models of risk measurement, such as VaR, provide an objective, independent assessment of a component of our risk exposure. Our use of VaR requires a number of key assumptions, including the selection of a confidence level for expected losses, the holding period for liquidation and the treatment of risks outside the VaR methodology, including liquidity risk and event risk. VaR, therefore, is not necessarily indicative of actual results that may occur. Additionally, VaR represents changes in fair value of financial instruments and not the economic exposure to AES and its affiliates. 

Because of the inherent limitations of VaR, including those specific to Analytic VaR, in particular the assumption that values or returns are normally distributed, we rely on VaR as only one component in our risk assessment process. In addition to using VaR measures, we perform stress and scenario analyses to estimate the economic impact of market changes to our portfolio of businesses. We use these results to complement the VaR methodology. 

In addition, the relevance of the VaR described herein as a measure of economic risk, is limited and needs to be considered in light of the underlying business structure. The interest rate component of VaR is due to changes in the fair value of our fixed rate debt instruments and interest rate swaps. These instruments themselves would expose a holder to market risk; however, utilizing these fixed rate debt instruments as part of a fixed price contract generation business mitigates the overall exposure to interest rates. Similarly, our foreign exchange rate sensitive instruments are often part of businesses which have revenues denominated in the same currency, thus offsetting the exposure. 

We have performed a company-wide VaR analysis of all of our material financial assets, liabilities and derivative instruments. Embedded derivatives are not appropriately measured here and are excluded since VaR is not representative of the overall contract valuation. The VaR calculation incorporates numerous variables that could impact the fair value of our instruments, including interest rates, foreign exchange rates and commodity prices, as well as correlation within and across these variables. We express Analytic VaR herein as a dollar amount of the potential loss in the fair value of our portfolio based on a 95% confidence level and a one-day holding period. Our commodity analysis is an Analytic VaR utilizing a variance-covariance analysis within the commodity transaction management system. 

For the year ended December 31, 2007, our average one-day VaR at quarter end for foreign exchange rate-sensitive instruments was $45 million. The one-day VaR for foreign exchange rate-sensitive instruments was highest at the end of the third quarter, and equaled $61 million. The one-day VaR for foreign exchange rate-sensitive instruments was lowest at the end of the second quarter, and equaled $28 million. These amounts include foreign currency denominated debt and hedge instruments. AES has increased the percentage of its portfolio of Brazilian Real and Euro denominated floating rate debt. This increase in notionals, along with higher currency market volatilities, particularly for the Brazilian Real, has led to the increase in the average one-day quarter end VaR for foreign exchange rate-sensitive instruments from $36 million in 2006 to $45 million in 2007. 

120 For the year ended December 31, 2007, our average one-day VaR at quarter end for interest rate-sensitive instruments was $98 million. The one-day VaR for interest rate-sensitive instruments was highest at the end of the fourth quarter, and equaled $137 million. The one-day VaR for interest rate-sensitive instruments was lowest at the end of the second quarter and equaled $67 million. These amounts include the financial instruments that serve as hedges and the underlying hedged items. AES has increased its fixed rate dollar denominated debt in 2007. This, along with higher market volatilities, led to an increase in our average one-day quarter end VaR for interest rate-sensitive instruments from $76 million in 2006 to $98 million in 2007. 

For the year ended December 31, 2007, our average one-day VaR at quarter end for commodity price-sensitive instruments was $14 million. The one-day VaR for commodity price-sensitive instruments was highest at the end of the first quarter end, and equaled $18 million. The one-day VaR for commodity price-sensitive instruments was lowest at the end of the second and third quarters, and equaled $12 million. These amounts include the financial instruments that serve as hedges and do not include the underlying physical assets or contracts that are not permitted to be settled in cash. The one-day VaR for commodity price-sensitive instruments is reported for financially settled derivative products at our Eastern Energy business in the state of New York. From 2006 to 2007 there has been a decrease in term and magnitude of hedging activity which has led to the decrease in the one-day quarter end VaR from $24 million in 2006 to $14 million in 2007. 

121