http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/26172/000104746912001182/a2206691z10-k.htm
18800000000.0
CMI
2015-02-17
10-K
CMI_2015-02-17_10-K.txt

10-K 1 a2206691z10-k.htm 10-K Use these links to rapidly review the document TABLE OF CONTENTS Table of Contents UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D.C. 20549 FORM 10-K ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF1934 For the Fiscal Year Ended December31, 2011 Commission File Number1-4949 CUMMINSINC.
Indiana (State of Incorporation) 35-0257090 (IRS Employer Identification No.) 500 Jackson Street Box3005 Columbus, Indiana 47202-3005 (Address of principal executive offices) Telephone (812)377-5000 Securities registered pursuant to Section12(b) of the Act: Title of each class Name of each exchange on which registered Common Stock, $2.50 par value New York Stock Exchange Securities registered pursuant to Section12(g) of the Act: None.
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule405 of the Securities Act.Yes  No o Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section13 or Section15(d) of the Act.Yes o No  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant: (1)has filed all reports required to be filed by Section13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports) and (2)has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90days.Yes  No o Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule405 of RegulationS-T (229.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files).Yes  No o Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item405 of RegulationS-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in PartIII of this Form10-K or any amendment to this Form10-K.
o Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the definition of "large accelerated filer," "accelerated filer" and "smaller reporting company" in Rule12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (Check one): Largeacceleratedfiler  Acceleratedfiler o Non-acceleratedfiler o (Do not check if a smaller reporting company) Smallerreportingcompany o Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule12b-2 of the Exchange Act).Yes o No  The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates was approximately $18.8billion at June26, 2011. This value includes all shares of the registrant's common stock, except for treasury shares.
As of February3, 2012, there were 191,927,547 shares outstanding of $2.50 par value common stock.
Documents Incorporated by Reference Portions of the registrant's definitive Proxy Statement for its 2012 annual meeting of shareholders, which will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on Schedule14A within 120days after the end of 2011, will be incorporated by reference in PartIII of this Form10-K to the extent indicated therein upon such filing.
Website Access to Company's Reports We maintain an internet website at www.cummins.com. Investors may obtain copies of our filings from this website free of charge as soon as reasonable practicable after they are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Table of Contents CUMMINSINC. AND SUBSIDIARIES TABLE OF CONTENTS PART ITEM PAGE Cautionary Statements Regarding Forward-Looking Information 3 I 1 Business 5 Overview 5 Operating Segments 5 Engine Segment 5 Components Segment 6 Power Generation Segment 8 Distribution Segment 9 Joint Ventures, Alliances and Non-Wholly-Owned Subsidiaries 10 Supply 13 Patents and Trademarks 14 Seasonality 14 Largest Customers 14 Backlog 15 Research and Development Expense 15 Environmental Compliance 15 Employees 17 Available Information 17 Executive Officers of the Registrant 18 1A Risk Factors 19 1B Unresolved Staff Comments 26 2 Properties 26 3 Legal Proceedings 27 4 Mine Safety Disclosures 28 II 5 Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 28 6 Selected Financial Data 30 7 Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 32 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 71 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 74 Index to Financial Statements 74 9 Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 149 9A Controls and Procedures 149 9B Other Information 149 III 10 Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 149 11 Executive Compensation 149 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 150 13 Certain Relationships, Related Transactions and Director Independence 150 14 Principal Accountant Fees and Services 150 IV 15 Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 151 Signatures 152 CumminsInc. Exhibit Index 154 2 Table of Contents CumminsInc. and its consolidated subsidiaries are hereinafter sometimes referred to as "Cummins," "we," "our," or "us." CAUTIONARY STATEMENTS REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION Certain parts of this annual report contain forward-looking statements intended to qualify for the safe harbors from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements include those that are based on current expectations, estimates and projections about the industries in which we operate and management's beliefs and assumptions. Forward-looking statements are generally accompanied by words such as "anticipates," "expects," "forecasts," "intends," "plans," "believes," "seeks," "estimates," "could," "should," or words of similar meaning. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions, which we refer to as "future factors," which are difficult to predict. Therefore, actual outcomes and results may differ materially from what is expressed or forecasted in such forward-looking statements. Some future factors that could cause our results to differ materially from the results discussed in such forward-looking statements are discussed below and shareholders, potential investors and other readers are urged to consider these future factors carefully in evaluating forward-looking statements. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date hereof. Some of the future factors that could affect the outcome of forward-looking statements include the following:  general economic, business and financing conditions, including emerging markets;  a slowdown in infrastructure development;  increasingly stringent environmental laws and regulations;  unpredictability in the adoption, implementation and enforcement of emission standards around the world;  the actions of joint ventures and other investees that we do not directly control;  changes in the outsourcing practices of significant customers;  any significant problems in our new engine platforms;  currency exchange rate changes;  supply shortages and supplier financial risk;  variability in material and commodity costs;  product recalls and liability claims;  competitor pricing activity;  increasing global competition among our customers;  global political and economic conditions;  changes in taxation;  the price and availability of energy;  increasing our capacity and production at the appropriate pace;  the development of new technologies;  obtaining customers for our new light-duty diesel engine platform;  new governmental actions, legislation and regulations; 3 Table of Contents  the performance of our pension plan assets;  labor relations;  changes in accounting standards;  our sales mix of products;  protection and validity of our patent and other intellectual property rights;  technological implementation and cost/financial risks in our increasing use of large, multi-year contracts;  the cyclical nature of some of our markets;  the outcome of pending and future litigation and governmental proceedings;  continued availability of financing, financial instruments and financial resources in the amounts, at the times and on the terms required to support our future business; and  other risk factors described in ItemIA under the caption "Risk Factors." Shareholders, potential investors and other readers are urged to consider these factors carefully in evaluating the forward-looking statements and are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements made herein are made only as of the date of this annual report and we undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
4 Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1.Business OVERVIEW CumminsInc. was founded in 1919 as a corporation in Columbus, Indiana, as one of the first diesel engine manufacturers. We are a global power leader that designs, manufactures, distributes and services diesel and natural gas engines and engine-related component products, including filtration, exhaust aftertreatment, fuel systems, controls systems, air handling systems and electric power generation systems. We sell our products to original equipment manufacturers (OEMs), distributors and other customers worldwide. We serve our customers through a network of more than 600 company-owned and independent distributor locations and more than 6,500 dealer locations in more than 190 countries and territories.
OPERATING SEGMENTS We have four complementary operating segments: Engine, Components, Power Generation and Distribution. These segments share technology, customers, strategic partners, brand recognition and our distribution network in order to compete more efficiently and effectively in their respective markets. In each of our operating segments, we compete worldwide with a number of other manufacturers and distributors that produce and sell similar products. Our products compete primarily on the basis of performance, fuel economy, speed of delivery, quality, customer support and price. Financial information about our operating segments, including geographic information, is incorporated by reference from Note23, "OPERATING SEGMENTS," to our Consolidated Financial Statements.
Engine Segment Engine segment sales and earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) as a percentage of consolidated results were: Years ended December31, 2011 2010 2009 Percent of consolidated net sales(1) 52 % 49 % 49 % Percent of consolidated EBIT(1) 53 % 48 % 34 % (1) Measured before intersegment eliminations Our Engine segment manufactures and markets a broad range of diesel and natural gas powered engines under the Cummins brand name, as well as certain customer brand names, for the heavy- and medium-duty truck, bus, recreational vehicle (RV), light-duty automotive, agricultural, construction, mining, marine, oil and gas, rail and governmental equipment markets. We offer a wide variety of engine products including:  Engines with a displacement range of 1.4 to 91 liters and horsepower ranging from 31 to 3,500 and  New parts and service, as well as remanufactured parts and engines, through our extensive distribution network.
Our Engine segment is organized by engine displacement size and serves these end-user markets:  Heavy-Duty Truck We manufacture diesel engines that range from 310 to 620 horsepower serving global heavy-duty truck customers worldwide.
Medium-Duty Truck and Bus We manufacture medium-duty diesel engines ranging from 200 to 380 horsepower serving medium-duty and inter-city delivery truck customers worldwide, with key 5 Table of Contents markets including: Latin America, North America, Europe and Mexico. We also provide diesel or natural gas engines for school buses, transit buses and shuttle buses worldwide, with key markets including North America, Asia, Europe and Latin America.
Light-Duty Automotive and RV We manufacture 305 to 350 horsepower diesel engines for Chrysler's heavy-duty chassis cab and pickup trucks and 300 to 600 horsepower diesel engines for ClassA motor homes (RVs), primarily in North America.
Industrial We provide mid-range, heavy-duty and high-horsepower engines that range from 31 to 3,500 horsepower for a wide variety of equipment in the construction, agricultural, mining, rail, government, oil and gas, power generation and commercial and recreational marine applications throughout the world. Across these markets we have major customers in North America, Europe/Middle East/Africa (EMEA), China, India, South Korea, Latin America, Russia, Japan, Southeast Asia, South Pacific and Mexico.
The principal customers of our heavy- and medium-duty truck engines include truck manufacturers such as PACCAR Inc (PACCAR), Daimler Trucks North America, MAN Latin America and Ford. We sell our industrial engines to manufacturers of construction, agricultural and marine equipment, including Komatsu, Hyundai, Belaz, Liugong and Hitachi. The principal customers of our light-duty on-highway engines are Chrysler and manufacturers of RVs.
In the markets served by our Engine segment, we compete with independent engine manufacturers as well as OEMswho manufacture engines for their own products. Our primary competitors in North America are International Truck and Engine Corporation (Engine Division), Detroit Diesel Corporation, CaterpillarInc. (CAT) and Volvo Powertrain. Our primary competitors in international markets vary from country to country, with local manufacturers generally predominant in each geographic market. Other engine manufacturers in international markets include Weichai PowerCo.Ltd., MAN Nutzfahrzeuge AG (MAN), Fiat Power Systems, GE Jenbacher, Tognum AG, CAT, Volvo, YanmarCo.,Ltd., GuangxiYuchai Group and Deutz AG.
Components Segment Components segment sales and EBIT as a percentage of consolidated results were: Years ended December31, 2011 2010 2009 Percent of consolidated net sales(1) 18 % 19 % 18 % Percent of consolidated EBIT(1) 18 % 16 % 13 % (1) Measured before intersegment eliminations Our Components segment supplies products which complement our Engine segment, including filtration products, turbochargers, aftertreatment systems, intake and exhaust systems and fuel systems for commercial diesel applications. We manufacture filtration and exhaust systems for on- and off-highway heavy-duty and mid-range equipment, and we are a supplier of filtration products for industrial and passenger car applications. In addition, we develop aftertreatment and exhaust systems to help our customers meet increasingly stringent emission standards and fuel systems which to date have primarily supplied our Engine segment and our joint venture partner Scania.
Our Components segment is organized around the following businesses:  Emission solutions Our emission solutions business is a global leader in designing, manufacturing and integrating exhaust aftertreatment technology and solutions for the commercial on-and off-highway medium-duty, heavy-duty and high-horsepower engine markets.
6 Table of Contents Our emission solutions business develops and produces various emission solutions, including custom engineering systems and integrated controls, oxidation catalysts, particulate filters, oxides of nitrogen (NOx) reduction systems such as selective catalytic reduction and NOx adsorbers and engineered components such as dosers and sensors. Our emissions solutions business has key operations in Indiana, Wisconsin, South Africa, the United Kingdom (U.K.), China, Brazil and India and serves both OEM and engine first fit and retrofit customers.
Turbo technologies Our turbo technologies business designs, manufactures and markets turbochargers for light-duty, mid-range, heavy-duty and high-horsepower diesel markets with manufacturing facilities in five countries and sales and distribution worldwide. Our turbo technologies business provides critical air handling technologies for engines, including variable geometry turbochargers, to meet challenging performance requirements and worldwide emission standards. Our turbo technologies business primarily serves markets in North America, Asia and Europe.
Filtration Our filtration business designs and manufactures filtration, coolant and chemical products. The filtration business offers over 7,000 products including air filters, fuel filters, fuel water separators, lube filters, hydraulic filters, coolant, diesel exhaust fluid, fuel additives and other filtration systems to OEMs, dealers/distributors and end users. Our filtration business supports a wide customer base in a diverse range of markets including on-highway, off-highway, oil and gas, agriculture, marine, industrial and light-duty automotive. We produce and sell globally recognized Fleetguard branded products in over 160 countries including countries in North America, South America, Europe, Asia, Africa and Australia. Fleetguard products are available through thousands of distribution points worldwide.
Fuel systems Our fuel systems business designs and manufactures new and replacement fuel systems primarily for heavy-duty on-highway diesel engine applications and also remanufactures fuel systems and engine control modules. Scania and Komatsu are our fuel systems business' primary external customers. Scania is also our partner in two joint ventures within our fuel systems business. The Cummins-Scania High Pressure Injection,LLC joint venture currently manufactures fuel systems used internally and by Scania while the Cummins-Scania XPI joint venture currently produces advanced technology fuel systems for medium- and heavy-duty engines used internally and by Scania.
Customers of our Components segment generally include our Engine and Distribution segments, truck manufacturers and other OEMs, many of which are also customers of our Engine segment, such as PACCAR, Daimler, Volvo, Iveco, Scania and other manufacturers that use our components in their product platforms.
Our Components segment competes with other manufacturers of filtration, exhaust and fuel systems and turbochargers. Our primary competitors in these markets include Donaldson Company, Inc., ClarcorInc., Mann+Hummel Group, Honeywell International, Borg-Warner, Robert BoschGmbH, TennecoInc., Eberspacher HoldingGmbH&Co. KG and Denso Corporation.
In the second quarter of 2011, we sold certain assets and liabilities of our exhaust business which manufactures exhaust products and select components for emission systems for a variety of applications not core to our other product offerings. This business was historically included in our Components segment. The sales price was $123million. We recognized a gain on the sale of $68million ($37million after-tax), which included a goodwill allocation of $19million. The gain was excluded from segment results as it was not considered in our evaluation of operating results for the year ended December31, 2011.
7 Table of Contents Sales for this business were $62million, $171million and $126million in 2011 (through closing), 2010 and 2009, respectively. Operating results for this business were approximately $9million, $22million and $11million in 2011 (through closing), 2010 and 2009, respectively.
During the fourth quarter of 2011, we sold certain assets and liabilities of our light-duty filtration business which manufactures light-duty automotive and industrial filtration solutions. The sales price was $90million and included a note receivable from the buyer of approximately $1million. There are no earnouts or other contingencies associated with the sales price. We recognized a gain on the sale of $53million ($33million after-tax), which included a goodwill allocation of $6million. The gain was excluded from segment results as it was not considered in our evaluation of operating results for the year ended December31, 2011.
Sales for this business were $64million, $74million and $54million in 2011 (through closing), 2010 and 2009, respectively. Operating results for this business were approximately $13million, $9million and $2million in 2011 (through closing), 2010 and 2009, respectively.
Power Generation Segment Power Generation segment sales and EBIT as a percentage of consolidated results were: Years ended December31, 2011 2010 2009 Percent of consolidated net sales(1) 16 % 18 % 19 % Percent of consolidated EBIT(1) 14 % 18 % 22 % (1) Measured before intersegment eliminations Our Power Generation segment designs and manufactures most of the components that make up power generation systems, including engines, controls, alternators, transfer switches and switchgear. This segment is a global provider of power generation systems, components and services for a diversified customer base, including the following:  Standby power solutions for customers who rely on uninterrupted sources of power to meet the needs of their customers.
Distributed generation power solutions for customers with less reliable electrical power infrastructures, typically in developing countries. In addition, our power solutions provide an alternative source of generating capacity located close to its point of use, which is purchased by utilities, independent power producers and large power customers for use as prime or peaking power.
Mobile power solutions, which provide a secondary source of power (other than drivetrain power) for mobile applications.
Our Power Generation segment is organized around the following businesses:  Commercial products Our commercial products business manufactures generators for commercial applications ranging from 5 kilowatts to 2.75 megawatts.
Generator technologies Our generator technologies business manufactures and sells its alternator products internally as well as to other generator set assemblers. Our products are sold under the Stamford, AVK and Markon brands and range in output from 0.6 kilovolt-amperes (kVA) to 30,000 kVA.
Commercial projects Our commercial projects business includes mainly all of our natural gas-fired generator business, our power generation project business and our military business.
8 Table of Contents  Consumer Our consumer business manufactures and sells consumer products under the Cummins Onan brand name including diesel, natural gas, gasoline and alternative-fuel electrical generator sets for use in RVs, commercial vehicles, recreational marine applications and home stand-by or residential applications.
Power electronics Our power electronics business designs and builds generator controls. We also sell switch gear and transfer switches to both internal and external customers. This business integrates well with our commercial products business, providing complete customized solutions to customers.
This segment continuously explores emerging technologies, such as fuel cells, wind and hybrid solutions and provides integrated power generation products using technologies other than reciprocating engines. We use our own research and development capabilities as well as those of our business partnerships to develop cost-effective and environmentally sound power solutions.
Our customer base for our power generation products is highly diversified, with customer groups varying based on their power needs. India, East Asia, the U.K., Latin America, Western Europe and the Middle East are our largest geographic markets outside of North America.
Power Generation competes with a variety of engine manufacturers and generator set assemblers across the world. CAT, Tognum (MTU) and Kohler/SDMO (Kohler Group) remain our primary competitors, but we also compete with FG Wilson (CAT group), Generac, Mitsubishi (MHI) and numerous regional generator set assemblers. Our generator technologies business competes globally with Emerson ElectricCo., Marathon Electric and Meccalte, among others.
Distribution Segment Distribution segment sales and EBIT as a percentage of consolidated results were: Years ended December31, 2011 2010 2009 Percent of consolidated net sales(1) 14 % 14 % 14 % Percent of consolidated EBIT(1) 15 % 18 % 31 % (1) Measured before intersegment eliminations Our Distribution segment consists of 22 company-owned and 18 joint venture distributors that service and distribute the full range of our products and services to end-users at approximately 400 locations in approximately 70 distribution territories. Our company-owned distributors are located in key markets, including North America, Australia, Europe, the Middle East, India, China, Africa, Russia, Japan, Brazil and Singapore, while our joint venture distributors are located in North America, South America, Africa, China, Thailand, Singapore and Vietnam.
The Distribution segment consists of the following businesses which service and/or distribute the full range of our products and services:  Parts and filtration,  Power generation,  Engines and  Service.
The Distribution segment is organized into five primary geographic regions:  Asia Pacific, 9 Table of Contents  Europe and the Middle East (EME),  North and Central America,  Africa and  South America.
Asia Pacific and EME are composed of six smaller regional distributor organizations (South Pacific, Greater Europe, the Middle East, China, India and Northeast/Southeast Asia) which allow us to better manage these vast geographic territories.
North and Central America are mostly comprised of a network of partially-owned distributors. Internationally, our network consists of independent, partially-owned and wholly-owned distributors. Through these networks, we provide parts and service to our customers. These full-service solutions include maintenance contracts, engineering services and integrated products, where we customize our products to cater to specific needs of end-users. Our distributors also serve and develop dealers, predominantly OEM dealers, in their territories by providing new products, technical support, tools, training, parts and product information.
In addition to managing our involvement with our wholly-owned and partially-owned distributors, our Distribution segment is responsible for managing the performance and capabilities of our independent distributors. Our Distribution segment serves a highly diverse customer base with approximately 47percent of its 2011 sales being generated from new engines and power generation equipment, compared to 42percent in 2010, with its remaining sales generated by parts and service revenue.
Financial information about our distributors accounted for under the equity method are incorporated by reference from Note3, "INVESTMENTS IN EQUITY INVESTEES," to our Consolidated Financial Statements .
In November 2010, we purchased a majority interest in a previously independent North American distributorship. The acquisition was accounted for under the purchase method of accounting and resulted in an aggregate purchase price of $27million. The assets of the acquired business were primarily accounts receivable, inventory, and fixed assets. The transaction generated $1million of goodwill.
On January4, 2010, we acquired the remaining 70percent interest in Cummins Western Canada (CWC) from our former principal for consideration of approximately $71million in order to increase our ownership interests in key portions of the distribution channel. We formed a new partnership with a new distributor principal in which we own 80percent of CWC and the new distributor principal owns 20percent. The acquisition, which was effective on January1, 2010, was accounted for as a business combination and resulted in $2million of goodwill. The results of the acquired entity for 2011 and 2010 were included in the Distribution operating segment. The assets of the acquired business were primarily inventory, fixed assets and accounts receivable. See Note2, "DIVESTITURES AND ACQUISITIONS," to our Consolidated Financial Statements for additional detail.
Our distributors compete with distributors or dealers that offer similar products. In many cases, these competing distributors or dealers are owned by, or affiliated with the companies that are listed above as competitors of our Engine, Components or Power Generation segments. These competitors vary by geographical location.
JOINT VENTURES, ALLIANCES AND NON-WHOLLY-OWNED SUBSIDIARIES We have entered into a number of joint venture agreements and alliances with business partners around the world. Our joint ventures are either distribution or manufacturing entities. We also own 10 Table of Contents controlling interests in non-wholly-owned manufacturing and distribution subsidiaries. Three entities, in which we own more than a 50percent equity interest, are consolidated in our Distribution segment results as well as several manufacturing joint ventures in the other operating segments.
In the event of a change of control of either party to certain of these joint ventures and other strategic alliances, certain consequences may result including automatic termination and liquidation of the venture, exercise of "put" or "call" rights of ownership by the non-acquired partner, termination or transfer of technology license rights to the non-acquired partner and increases in component transfer prices to the acquired partner. We will continue to evaluate joint venture and partnership opportunities in order to penetrate new markets, develop new products and generate manufacturing and operational efficiencies.
Financial information about our investments in joint ventures and alliances is incorporated by reference from Note3, "INVESTMENTS IN EQUITY INVESTEES," to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Our equity income from these investees was as follows: Years ended December31, In millions 2011 2010 2009 Distribution Entities North American distributors $ 134 36 % $ 101 32 % $ 100 51 % Komatsu Cummins Chile,Ltda.
22 6 % 16 5 % 12 6 % All other distributors 4 1 % 3 1 % 3 1 % Manufacturing Entities Dongfeng Cummins Engine Company,Ltd.
80 21 % 99 31 % 33 17 % Chongqing Cummins Engine Company,Ltd.
68 18 % 46 14 % 36 18 % Shanghai Fleetguard FilterCo.,Ltd.
15 4 % 12 4 % 7 4 % Tata Cummins,Ltd.
14 4 % 14 4 % 5 3 % Cummins Westport,Inc.
14 4 % 10 3 % 3 1 % Valvoline Cummins,Ltd.
7 2 % 8 3 % 7 4 % Komatsu manufacturing alliances 3 1 % 11 3 % (2 ) (1 )% Cummins MerCruiser Diesel Marine,LLC (3 ) (1 )% (3 ) (1 )% (10 ) (5 )% Beijing Foton Cummins EngineCo.,Ltd.
(7 ) (2 )% (16 ) (5 )% (5 ) (3 )% All other manufacturers 24 6 % 20 6 % 7 4 % Cummins share of net income(1) $ 375 100 % $ 321 100 % $ 196 100 % (1) This total represents our share of net income of our equity investees and is exclusive of royalties and interest income from our equity investees. To see how this amount reconciles to the "equity, royalty and interest income from investees" in the Consolidated Statements of Income , see Note3, "INVESTMENTS IN EQUITY INVESTEES," to our Consolidated Financial Statements.
Distribution Entities  North American Distributors Our distribution channel in North America includes 12 partially-owned distributors. Our equity interests in these nonconsolidated entities range from 30percent to 50percent. We also have more than a 50percent ownership interest in three partially owned distributors which we consolidate. While each distributor is a separate legal entity, the business of each is substantially the same as that of our wholly-owned distributors based in other parts of the world. All of our distributors, irrespective of their legal structure or ownership, offer the full range of our products and services to customers and end-users in their respective markets.
11 Table of Contents  Komatsu Cummins Chile,Ltda.
Komatsu Cummins Chile,Ltda. is a joint venture with Komatsu America Corporation. The joint venture is a distributor that offers the full range of our products and services to customers and end-users in the Chilean market.
Our distribution agreements with independent and partially-owned distributors generally have a renewable three-year term and are restricted to specified territories. Our distributors develop and maintain a network of dealers with which we have no direct relationship. Our distributors are permitted to sell other, noncompetitive products only with our consent. We license all of our distributors to use our name and logo in connection with the sale and service of our products, with no right to assign or sublicense the trademarks, except to authorized dealers, without our consent. Products are sold to the distributors at standard domestic or international distributor net prices, as applicable. Net prices are wholesale prices we establish to permit our distributors an adequate margin on their sales. Subject to local laws, we can generally refuse to renew these agreements upon expiration or terminate them upon written notice for inadequate sales, change in principal ownership and certain other reasons. Distributors also have the right to terminate the agreements upon 60-day notice without cause, or 30-day notice for cause. Upon termination or failure to renew, we are required to purchase the distributor's current inventory, signage and special tools, and may, at our option purchase other assets of the distributor, but are under no obligation to do so.
See further discussion of our distribution network under the Distribution segment section above.
Manufacturing Entities Our manufacturing joint ventures have generally been formed with customers and generally are intended to allow us to increase our market penetration in geographic regions, reduce capital spending, streamline our supply chain management and develop technologies. Our largest manufacturing joint ventures are based in China and are included in the list below. Our engine manufacturing joint ventures are supplied by our Components segment in the same manner as it supplies our wholly-owned Engine segment and Power Generation segment manufacturing facilities. Our Components segment joint ventures and wholly owned entities provide fuel system, filtration and turbocharger products that are used in our engines as well as some competitors' products. The results and investments in our joint ventures in which we have 50percent or less ownership interest are included in "Equity, royalty and interest income from investees" and "Investments and advances related to equity method investees" in our Consolidated Statements of Income and Consolidated Balance Sheets , respectively.
Dongfeng Cummins Engine Company,Ltd.
Dongfeng Cummins Engine Company,Ltd. (DCEC) is a joint venture in China with Dongfeng AutomotiveCo.Ltd., a subsidiary of Dongfeng Motor Corporation (Dongfeng), one of the largest medium-duty and heavy-duty truck manufacturers in China. DCEC produces Cummins four- to 13-liter mechanical engines, full-electronic diesel engines, with a power range from 125 to 545 horsepower, and natural gas engines.
Chongqing Cummins Engine Company,Ltd.
Chongqing Cummins Engine Company,Ltd. (CCEC) is a joint venture in China with Chongqing Machinery and ElectricCo.Ltd. This joint venture manufactures several models of our heavy-duty and high-horsepower diesel engines, primarily serving the industrial and stationary power markets in China.
Shanghai Fleetguard FilterCo., Ltd.
Shanghai Fleetguard FilterCo.,Ltd. is a joint venture in China with Dongfeng that manufactures filtration systems.
Tata CumminsLtd.
Tata CumminsLtd. is a joint venture in India with Tata MotorsLtd., the largest automotive company in India and a member of the Tata group of companies. This joint venture manufactures the engines in India for use in trucks manufactured by Tata Motors, as well as for various industrial and power generation applications.
12 Table of Contents  Cummins Westport,Inc.
Cummins Westport,Inc. is a joint venture in Canada with Westport InnovationsInc. to market and sell automotive spark-ignited natural gas engines worldwide and to participate in joint technology projects on low-emission technologies.
Valvoline Cummins,Ltd.
Valvoline Cummins,Ltd. is a joint venture in India with AshlandInc., USA. This joint venture manufactures and distributes lubricants and oil related products in India which are used in automotive and industrial applications. Products include transmission fluids, hydraulic lubricants, automotive filters, cooling system products, greases and specialty products.
Komatsu manufacturing alliances Komatsu manufacturing alliances consists of two manufacturing joint ventures and one design joint venture including Komatsu Cummins Engine Company (KCEC) in Japan and Cummins Komatsu Engine Company (CKEC) in the United States (U.S.) with KomatsuLtd. These joint ventures manufacture Cummins-designed medium-duty engines in Japan and Komatsu-designed high-horsepower engines in the U.S. The industrial engine design joint venture is located in Japan.
Cummins MerCruiser Diesel Marine,LLC Cummins MerCruiser Diesel Marine,LLC (CMD) is a joint venture in the U.S. with Mercury Marine, a division of Brunswick Corporation, to develop, manufacture and sell recreational marine diesel products, including engines, sterndrive packages, inboard packages, instrument and controls, service systems and replacement and service parts and assemblies, complete integration systems and other related products. In the fourth quarter of 2011, CumminsInc. and Mercury Marine announced a plan to dissolve their joint venture and to transition to a strategic supply arrangement between the two companies to more effectively and efficiently serve customers in the global diesel marine market. All business activities will move from CMD to the parent companies, with completion of the transition anticipated by mid-2012. CMD will conduct business as usual through the transition. Cummins will continue to use Mercury Marine drives and control systems in conjunction with its extensive offering of mid-range and heavy-duty marine engines. This move will leverage Cummins' strong global distribution footprint and create additional synergy with other Cummins recreational marine products, including marine generator sets offered under the Cummins Onan brand. The dissolution of the joint venture is not expected to have a significant impact on the financial results of Cummins.
Beijing Foton Cummins EngineCo., Ltd.
Beijing Foton Cummins EngineCo.,Ltd. is a joint venture in China with Beijing Foton MotorCo.,Ltd., a commercial vehicle manufacturer, which produces ISF2.8 liter and ISF3.8 liter families of Cummins high performance light-duty diesel engines in Beijing. These engines are used in light-duty commercial trucks, pickup trucks, multipurpose and sport utility vehicles. Certain types of marine, small construction equipment and industrial applications are also served by these engine families.
Non-Wholly-Owned Manufacturing Subsidiary We have a controlling interest in Cummins IndiaLtd. (CIL), which is a publicly listed company on various stock exchanges in India. CIL produces mid-range, heavy-duty and high-horsepower engines, as well as generators for the Indian and export markets. CIL also produces compressed natural gas spark-ignited engines licensed from another of our joint ventures. CIL's net income attributable to Cummins was $44million, $46million and $28million for 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.
SUPPLY We source our materials and manufactured components from leading suppliers both domestically and internationally. We machine and assemble some of the components used in our engines and power generation units, including blocks, heads, turbochargers, connecting rods, camshafts, crankshafts, filters, exhaust systems, alternators and fuel systems. We single source approximately 60 to 70percent of the 13 Table of Contents total types of parts in our product designs. We have long-term agreements with critical suppliers to help assure our capacity, delivery and quality requirements including one "take or pay" contract with an emission solutions business supplier requiring us to purchase approximately $73million annually from 2012 through 2018. Although we elect to source a relatively high proportion of our total raw materials and component requirements from sole suppliers, we have established a process to annually review our sourcing strategies with a focus on the reduction of risk, which has led us to dual source critical components, where possible, and establish programs to proactively detect suppliers with potential risks. We are also developing suppliers in many global or emerging markets to serve our businesses across the globe and provide alternative sources in the event of disruption from existing suppliers.
PATENTS AND TRADEMARKS We own or control a significant number of patents and trademarks relating to the products we manufacture. These patents and trademarks were granted and registered over a period of years. Although these patents and trademarks are generally considered beneficial to our operations, we do not believe any patent, group of patents, or trademark (other than our leading brand house trademarks) is significant to our business.
SEASONALITY While individual product lines may experience modest seasonal declines in production, there is no material effect on the demand for the majority of our products on a quarterly basis with the exception that our Power Generation segment normally experiences seasonal declines in the first quarter due to general declines in construction spending during this period and our Distribution segment normally experiences seasonal declines in its first quarter business activity due to holiday periods in Asia and Australia.
LARGEST CUSTOMERS We have thousands of customers around the world and have developed long-standing business relationships with many of them. PACCAR is our largest customer, accounting for approximately 12percent of our consolidated net sales in 2011, compared to approximately seven percent in 2010 and nine percent in 2009. We have long-term supply agreements with PACCAR for our heavy-duty ISX15liter and ISX 11.9 liter engines and our ISL 9 liter mid-range engine. While a significant number of our sales to PACCAR are under long-term supply agreements, these agreements provide for particular engine requirements for specific vehicle models and not a specific volume of engines. PACCAR is our only customer accounting for more than ten percent of our net sales in 2011. The loss of this customer or a significant decline in the production level of PACCAR vehicles that use our engines would have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We have been an engine supplier to PACCAR for over 67years. A summary of principal customers for each operating segment is included in our segment discussion.
In addition to our agreement with PACCAR, we have long-term heavy-duty engine supply agreements with Volvo Trucks North America and long-term mid-range supply agreements with Daimler Trucks North America, Ford and MAN. We also have an agreement with Chrysler for supplying the engine for its Ram trucks. In our off-highway markets, we have various engine and component supply agreements ranging across our midrange and high-horsepower businesses with KomatsuLtd., as well as various joint ventures and other license agreements in our Engine, Component and Distribution segments. Collectively, our net sales to these seven customers, including PACCAR, was approximately 31percent of our consolidated net sales in 2011, compared to approximately 25percent in 2010 and 23percent in 2009. Excluding PACCAR, net sales to individual customers were less than six percent of our consolidated net sales to any single customer in 2011, compared to less than four percent in 2010 and 2009. These agreements contain standard purchase and 14 Table of Contents sale agreement terms covering engine and engine parts pricing, quality and delivery commitments, as well as engineering product support obligations. The basic nature of our agreements with OEM customers is that they are long-term price and operations agreements that help assure the availability of our products to each customer through the duration of the respective agreements. Agreements with most OEMscontain bilateral termination provisions giving either party the right to terminate in the event of a material breach, change of control or insolvency or bankruptcy of the other party.
BACKLOG Our 2011 lead times for the majority of our businesses remained consistent or improved from their 2010 levels. While we have supply agreements with some truck and off-highway equipment OEMs, most of our business is transacted through open purchase orders. These open orders are historically subject to month-to-month releases and are subject to cancellation on reasonable notice without cancellation charges and therefore are not considered firm.
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT EXPENSE Our research and development program is focused on product improvements, innovations and cost reductions for our customers. Research and development expenditures include salaries, contractor fees, building costs, utilities, administrative expenses and allocation of corporate costs and are expensed, net of contract reimbursements, when incurred. Research and development expenses, net of contract reimbursements, were $621million in 2011, $402million in 2010 and $362million in 2009. Contract reimbursements were $75million in 2011, $68million in 2010 and $92million in 2009.
For 2011, 2010 and 2009, approximately $1million, $38million and $151million or less than one percent, nine percent and 42percent respectively, of our research and development expenditures were directly related to compliance with 2010 Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) emission standards. For 2011 and 2010, approximately $104million and $36million or 17percent and nine percent, of our research and development expenditures were directly related to compliance with 2013 EPA emission standards. In 2011, we increased our research, development and engineering expenses as we continued to invest in future critical technologies and products. We will continue to make investments to improve our current technologies, continue to meet the future emission requirements around the world and improve fuel economy.
ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE Sustainability We continue to be a leader in sustainable business development and practices. We have invested significantly to further lower emissions from and increase the efficiency of our products. Our ten climate change principles direct our actions to address this environmental challenge across our products, businesses, employees and communities. We have worked collaboratively with customers to improve their fuel economy and reduce their carbon footprint. We have significantly reduced greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from our facilities and exceeded our 2010 goal of 25percent intensity reduction by achieving a 28percent reduction, resulting in a savings of approximately $20million annually. We will continue these efforts through our new facility goal to expand this reduction to 40percent GHG intensity reduction by 2015. Over the past three years, we have reduced water usage by 22percent, reduced hazardous waste produced during manufacturing by 26percent and landfill waste by 11percent, normalized to employee hours. We have articulated our positions on key public policy issues surrounding a wide range of environmental issues and were actively engaged in developing the first-ever GHG and fuel efficiency standards for commercial vehicles that were finalized in the U.S. in 2010. For the seventh consecutive year, we were named to the Dow Jones World Sustainability Index, which recognizes the top 10percent of the world's largest 2,500 companies in economic, 15 Table of Contents environmental and social leadership. Our sustainability report for 2010/2011 as well as a supplement of more detailed environmental data is available on our website at www.cummins.com.
Product Environmental Compliance Our engines are subject to extensive statutory and regulatory requirements that directly or indirectly impose standards governing emission and noise. Our products comply with all current emission standards that the EPA, the California Air Resources Board (CARB) and other state and international regulatory agencies have established for heavy-duty on-highway diesel and gas engines and off-highway engines. Our ability to comply with these and future emission standards is an essential element in maintaining our leadership position in regulated markets. We have made, and will continue to make, significant capital and research expenditures to comply with these standards. Our failure to comply with these standards could result in adverse effects on our future financial results.
EPA Engine Certifications The current on-highway emission standards came into effect in the U.S. on January1, 2010. To meet the 2010 U.S. EPA heavy-duty on-highway emission standards, we used an evolution of our proven 2007 technology solution to maintain power and torque with substantial fuel economy improvement and maintenance intervals comparable with our 2007 compliant engines. We offer a complete lineup of on-highway engines to meet the near-zero emission standards. Mid-range and heavy-duty engines for EPA 2010 require NOx aftertreatment. NOx reduction is achieved by an integrated technology solution comprised of the XPI High Pressure Common Rail fuel system, Selective Catalytic Reduction (SCR) technology, next-generation cooled exhaust gas recirculation (EGR), advanced electronic controls, proven air handling and the Cummins Particulate Filter. For model year 2011 we made changes to the engine control module in response to EPA's and CARB's evolving SCR guidance. The EPA and CARB have certified that our engines meet the 2011 emission requirements. Emission standards in international markets, including Europe, Japan, Mexico, Australia, Brazil, India and China are becoming more stringent. We believe that our experience in meeting U.S. emission standards leaves us well positioned to take advantage of opportunities in these markets as the need for emission control capability grows.
Federal and California regulations require manufacturers to report failures of emission-related components to the EPA and CARB when the failure rate reaches a specified level. At higher failure rates, a product recall may be required. In 2011, we submitted five reports to the EPA relating to software corrections in our engine control module. These software corrections related to the engine control module necessitated the campaigns of approximately 1,250 engines at a cost of less than $1million.
Other Environmental Statutes and Regulations Expenditures for environmental control activities and environmental remediation projects at our facilities in the U.S. have not been a substantial portion of our annual capital outlays and are not expected to be material in 2012. Except as follows, we believe we are in compliance in all material respects with laws and regulations applicable to our plants and operations.
In the U.S., pursuant to notices received from federal and state agencies and/or defendant parties in site environmental contribution actions, we have been identified as a potentially responsible party (PRP) under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, as amended or similar state laws, at approximately 20 waste disposal sites. Based upon our experiences at similar sites we believe that our aggregate future remediation costs will not be significant. We have established accruals that we believe are adequate for our expected future liability with respect to these sites.
16 Table of Contents In addition, we have two other sites where we are working with governmental authorities on remediation projects. The costs for these remediation projects are not expected to be material.
EMPLOYEES As of December31, 2011, we employed approximately 43,900 persons worldwide. Approximately 15,700 of our employees worldwide are represented by various unions under collective bargaining agreements that expire between 2012 and 2015.
AVAILABLE INFORMATION We file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information electronically with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"). You may read and copy any document we file with the SEC at the SEC's public reference room at 100F Street, N.E., Washington, DC 20549. Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for information on the public reference room. The SEC maintains an internet site that contains annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy and information statements and other information that issuers (including Cummins) file electronically with the SEC. The SEC's internet site is www.sec.gov.
Our internet site is www.cummins.com. You can access our Investors and Media webpage through our internet site, by clicking on the heading "Investors and Media" followed by the "Investor Relations" link. We make available, free of charge, on or through our Investors and Media webpage, our proxy statements, annual reports on Form10-K, quarterly reports on Form10-Q, current reports on Form8-K and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC.
We also have a Corporate Governance webpage. You can access our Governance Documents webpage through our internet site, www.cummins.com, by clicking on the heading "Investors and Media," followed by the "Investor Relations" link and then the topic heading of "Governance Documents" within the "Corporate Governance" heading. Code of Conduct, Committee Charters and other governance documents are included at this site. Our Code of Conduct applies to all employees, regardless of their position or the country in which they work. It also applies to the employees of any entity owned or controlled by us. We will post any amendments to the Code of Conduct and any waivers that are required to be disclosed by the rules of either the SEC or the New York Stock ExchangeLLC (NYSE), on our internet site. The information on our internet site is not incorporated by reference into this report.
17 Table of Contents EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT Following are the names and ages of our executive officers, their positions with us as of January31, 2012, and summaries of their backgrounds and business experience: Name and Age Present CumminsInc. position and year appointed to position Principal position during the past five years other than CumminsInc.
position currently held N. Thomas Linebarger (49) Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer (2012) President and Chief Operating Officer (2008-2011), Executive Vice President and PresidentPower Generation (2005-2008) Sharon R. Barner (54) Vice PresidentGeneral Counsel (2012) PartnerLaw firm of Foley& Lardner (2011-2012) Deputy Under Secretary of CommerceIntellectual Property and Deputy Director of the United States Patent and Trademark Office (2009-2011) PartnerLaw firm of Foley& Lardner (1996-2009) Jean S. Blackwell (57) Executive Vice President, Corporate Responsibility (2008) Executive Vice PresidentChief Financial Officer (2005-2008) Pamela L. Carter (62) Vice President and PresidentDistribution Business (2007) Vice President and PresidentCummins Filtration (2005-2007) Steven M. Chapman (57) Group Vice PresidentChina and Russia (2009) Vice PresidentEmerging Markets and Businesses (2005-2009) Jill E. Cook (48) Vice PresidentHuman Resources (2003) Richard J. Freeland (54) Vice President and PresidentEngine Business (2010) Vice President and PresidentComponents Group (2008-2010), Vice President and PresidentWorldwide Distribution Business (2005-2008) Mark R. Gerstle (56) Vice PresidentCommunity Relations (2011) Vice PresidentChief Administrative Officer (2008-2011), Vice PresidentCorporate Quality and Chief Risk Officer (2005-2008) Richard E. Harris (59) Vice PresidentChief Investment Officer (2008) Vice PresidentTreasurer (2003-2008) Marsha L. Hunt (48) Vice PresidentCorporate Controller (2003) Marya M. Rose (49) Vice PresidentChief Administrative Officer (2011) Vice PresidentGeneral Counsel and Corporate Secretary (2001-2011) Livingston L. Satterthwaite (51) Vice President and PresidentPower Generation (2008) Vice PresidentGenerator Set Business (2003-2008) Anant Talaulicar (50) Vice President and PresidentComponents Group (2010) Vice President and Managing DirectorIndia ABO (2004-present), Chairman and Managing DirectorCummins IndiaLtd. (2003-present) John C. Wall (60) Vice PresidentChief Technical Officer (2000) Patrick J. Ward (48) Vice PresidentChief Financial Officer (2008) Vice PresidentEngine Business Controller (2006-2008) Lisa M. Yoder (48) Vice PresidentGlobal Supply Chain& Manufacturing (2011) Vice PresidentCorporate Supply Chain (2010-2011), Executive DirectorSupply Chain& Operations-Power Generation (2007-2010) Our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer is elected annually by our Board of Directors and holds office until the first meeting of the Board of Directors following the annual meeting of the shareholders. Other officers are appointed by the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, are ratified by our Board of Directors and hold office for such period as the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer or the Board of Directors may prescribe.
18 Table of Contents ITEM 1A.Risk Factors Set forth below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form10-K are some of the principal risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual business results to differ materially from any forward-looking statements contained in this Report and could individually, or in combination, have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position or cash flows. These risk factors should be considered in addition to our cautionary comments concerning forward-looking statements in this Report, including statements related to markets for our products and trends in our business that involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Our separate section above, "CAUTIONARY STATEMENTS REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION," should be considered in addition to the following statements.
Another sustained slowdown or significant downturn in our markets could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows again.
Although emerging markets, notably China, India and Brazil, experienced strong growth and certain domestic markets showed more robust recoveries in 2011, the global economy remains fragile. Growth rates in certain emerging markets, including China and India, began to slow in the second half of 2011 as governments looked to control inflation through tight monetary policies, while in the developed economies, particularly in Europe, the recovery remains sluggish due to the unwinding of fiscal stimuli, lingering high unemployment, concerns over European sovereign debt issues and the tightening of government budgets. As a result, further disruptions in Europe or in other economies could affect our revenues or liquidity. Continued inflationary pressures in emerging market countries could cause their governments to further tighten credit and raise interest rates, resulting in slowing economic growth. If the global economy, or some of our significant markets, were to undergo a sustained slowdown or another significant downturn, depending upon the length, duration and severity of such a slowdown or downturn, our results of operations, financial condition and cash flow would almost certainly be materially adversely affected again. Specifically, our revenues would likely decrease, we may be forced to consider further restructuring actions, we may need to increase our allowance for doubtful accounts, our days sales outstanding may increase and we could experience impairments to assets of certain of our businesses.
A slowdown in infrastructure development could adversely affect our business.
Infrastructure development has been a significant driver of our business in recent years. Some governments and financial institutions have tightened credit availability and made the terms of available credit more onerous, which may lead to a slowdown in economic growth and infrastructure spending. Concern over inflationary or other economic pressures may cause governments or financial institutions to take similar measures in the future. General weakness in economic growth or the perception that infrastructure has been overbuilt also may lead to a decrease in infrastructure spending. Any significant declines in infrastructure development that result from these circumstances could adversely affect our business.
Unpredictability in the adoption, implementation and enforcement of increasingly stringent emission standards could adversely affect our business.
Our engines are subject to extensive statutory and regulatory requirements governing emission and noise, including standards imposed by the EPA, the European Union, state regulatory agencies (such as the CARB) and other regulatory agencies around the world. We have made, and will be required to continue to make, significant capital and research expenditures to comply with these emission standards. Developing engines to meet changing government regulatory requirements, with different implementation timelines and emission requirements, makes developing engines efficiently for multiple markets complicated and could result in substantial additional costs that may be difficult to recover in 19 Table of Contents certain markets. In some cases, we may be required to develop new products to comply with new regulations, particularly those relating to air emission. For example, we were required to develop new engines to comply with stringent emission standards in the U.S. by January1, 2010, including the reduction of NOx emission to near zero levels, among other requirements. While we were able to meet this and previous deadlines, our ability to comply with other existing and future regulatory standards will be essential for us to maintain our position in the engine markets we serve. The successful development and introduction of new and enhanced products in order to comply with new regulatory requirements are subject to other risks, such as delays in product development, cost over-runs and unanticipated technical and manufacturing difficulties. In addition to these risks, the nature and timing of government implementation and enforcement of increasingly stringent emission standards around the world is unpredictable and subject to change, delays and reversals that can result in new or modified products that we have developed to comply with the standards becoming unnecessary, or becoming necessary later than expected, and in some cases negating our competitive advantage. This in turn can delay, diminish or eliminate the expected return on capital and research expenditures that we have invested in such products and may adversely affect our perceived competitive advantage in being an early, advanced developer of compliant engines.
We rely on income from investees that we do not directly control.
Our net income includes significant equity, royalty and interest income from investees that we do not directly control. For 2011, we recognized $ 416million of equity, royalty and interest income from investees, compared to $ 351million in 2010. The majority of our equity, royalty and interest income from investees comes from our 12 unconsolidated North American distributors and from two of our joint ventures in China, Dongfeng Cummins Engine Company,Ltd. ("DCEC") and Chongqing Cummins Engine Company,Ltd. ("CCEC"). Our equity ownership interests in our unconsolidated North American distributors generally range from 30percent to 50percent. We have 50percent equity ownership interests in DCEC and CCEC. As a result, although a significant percentage of our net income is derived from these unconsolidated entities, we do not unilaterally control their management or operations, which puts a substantial portion of our net income at risk from the actions or inactions of these other entities. A significant reduction in the level of contribution by these entities to our net income would likely have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.
Our truck manufacturers and OEM customers may not continue to outsource their engine supply needs.
Several of our engine customers, including PACCAR, Volvo AB and Chrysler, are truck manufacturers or OEMsthat manufacture engines for some of their own products. Despite their own engine manufacturing abilities, these customers have historically chosen to outsource certain types of engine production to us due to the quality of our engine products, our emission capabilities, our systems integration, their customers' preferences, their desire for cost reductions, their desire for eliminating production risks and their desire to maintain company focus. However, there can be no assurance that these customers will continue to outsource, or outsource as much of, their engine production in the future. Increased levels of OEM vertical integration could result from a number of factors, such as shifts in our customers' business strategies, acquisition by a customer of another engine manufacturer, the inability of third-party suppliers to meet product specifications and the emergence of low-cost production opportunities in foreign countries. Any significant reduction in the level of engine production outsourcing from our truck manufacturer or OEM customers could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.
20 Table of Contents The discovery of any significant problems with our new engine platforms in North America could materially adversely impact our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.
The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and California Air Resources Board (CARB) have certified all of our 2011 on-highway and off-highway engines, which utilize selective catalytic reduction (SCR) technology to meet requisite emission levels. We introduced SCR technology into our engine platforms in 2010. The effective performance of SCR technology and the overall performance of these engine platforms impact a number of our operating segments and remain crucial to our success in North America. While these 2010 engine platforms have performed well in the field, the discovery of any significant problems in these platforms could result in recall campaigns, increased warranty costs, reputational risk and brand risk.
We are subject to currency exchange rate and other related risks.
We conduct operations in many areas of the world involving transactions denominated in a variety of currencies. We are subject to currency exchange rate risk to the extent that our costs are denominated in currencies other than those in which we earn revenues. In addition, since our financial statements are denominated in U.S. dollars, changes in currency exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and other currencies have had, and will continue to have, an impact on our results of operations. While we customarily enter into financial transactions that attempt to address these risks, there can be no assurance that currency exchange rate fluctuations will not adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. In addition, while the use of currency hedging instruments may provide us with some protection from adverse fluctuations in currency exchange rates, by utilizing these instruments we potentially forego the benefits that might result from favorable fluctuations in currency exchange rates.
We also face risks arising from the imposition of exchange controls and currency devaluations. Exchange controls may limit our ability to convert foreign currencies into U.S. dollars or to remit dividends and other payments by our foreign subsidiaries or businesses located in or conducted within a country imposing controls. Currency devaluations result in a diminished value of funds denominated in the currency of the country instituting the devaluation.
Another downturn in the North American and European automotive industries could adversely impact our business.
During the recession, lower production levels for some of our key suppliers, increases in certain raw material, commodity and energy costs and the global credit market crisis resulted in severe financial distress among many companies within the automotive supply base. A return to financial distress within the automotive industry and our shared supply base and/or the subsequent bankruptcy of one or more automakers may lead to further supplier bankruptcies, commercial disputes, supply chain interruptions, supplier requests for company sponsored capital support or a collapse of the supply chain.
We are vulnerable to supply shortages from single-sourced suppliers.
During 2011, we single sourced approximately 60 to 70percent of the total types of parts in our product designs. Any delay in our suppliers' deliveries may adversely affect our operations at multiple manufacturing locations, forcing us to seek alternative supply sources to avoid serious disruptions. Delays may be caused by factors affecting our suppliers, including capacity constraints, labor disputes, economic downturns, availability of credit, the impaired financial condition of a particular supplier, suppliers' allocations to other purchasers, weather emergencies, natural disasters or acts of war or terrorism. Any extended delay in receiving critical supplies could impair our ability to deliver products to our customers.
21 Table of Contents Our products are exposed to variability in material and commodity costs.
Our businesses establish prices with our customers in accordance with contractual time frames; however, the timing of material and commodity market price increases may prevent us from passing these additional costs on to our customers through timely pricing actions. Additionally, higher material and commodity costs around the world may offset our efforts to reduce our cost structure. While we customarily enter into financial transactions that attempt to address some of these risks (notably with respect to copper, platinum and palladium), there can be no assurance that commodity price fluctuations will not adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. In addition, while the use of commodity price hedging instruments may provide us with some protection from adverse fluctuations in commodity prices, by utilizing these instruments we potentially forego the benefits that might result from favorable fluctuations in price. As a result, higher material and commodity costs, as well as hedging these commodity costs during periods of decreasing prices, could result in declining margins.
Our products are subject to recall for performance or safety-related issues.
Our products may be subject to recall for performance or safety-related issues. Product recalls subject us to harm to our reputation, loss of current and future customers, reduced revenue and product recall costs. Product recall costs are incurred when we decide, either voluntarily or involuntarily, to recall a product through a formal campaign to solicit the return of specific products due to a known or suspected performance issue. Any significant product recalls could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.
We face significant competition in the markets we serve.
The markets in which we operate are highly competitive. We compete worldwide with a number of other manufacturers and distributors that produce and sell similar products. We primarily compete in the market with diesel engines and related diesel products; however, new technologies continue to be developed for gasoline and other technologies and we will continue to face new competition from these expanding technologies. Our products primarily compete on the basis of price, performance, fuel economy, speed of delivery, quality and customer support. We also face competitors in some emerging markets who have established local practices and long standing relationships with participants in these markets. There can be no assurance that our products will be able to compete successfully with the products of other companies and in other markets. For a more complete discussion of the competitive environment in which each of our segments operates, see "Operating Segments" in "Item1 Business." Increasing global competition among our customers may affect our existing customer relationships and restrict our ability to benefit from some of our customers' growth.
As our customers in emerging markets continue to grow in size and scope, they are increasingly seeking to export their products to other countries. This has meant greater demand for our advanced engine technologies to help these customers meet the more stringent emissions requirements of developed markets, as well as greater demand for access to our distribution systems for purposes of equipment servicing. As these emerging market customers enter into and begin to compete in more developed markets, they may increasingly begin to compete with our existing customers in these markets. Our further aid to emerging market customers could affect our relationships with developed market customers and, as a result, we may feel pressure to restrict some of our activities in areas of competition. In addition, to the extent the competition does not correspond to overall growth in demand, we may see little or no benefit from this type of expansion by our emerging market customers.
22 Table of Contents We are exposed to political, economic and other risks that arise from operating a multinational business.
Approximately 59percent of our net sales for 2011 were attributable to customers outside the U.S., compared to 64percent in 2010. Accordingly, our business is subject to the political, economic and other risks that are inherent in operating in numerous countries. These risks include:  the difficulty of enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through foreign legal systems;  trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements;  the imposition of taxes on foreign income and tax rates in certain foreign countries that exceed those in the U.S.;  the imposition of tariffs, exchange controls or other restrictions;  difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations and the application of foreign labor regulations;  required compliance with a variety of foreign laws and regulations; and  changes in general economic and political conditions in countries where we operate, particularly in emerging markets.
As we continue to operate our business globally, our success will depend, in part, on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other related risks. There can be no assurance that the consequences of these and other factors relating to our multinational operations will not have a material adverse effect upon us.
Unanticipated changes in our effective tax rate, the adoption of new tax legislation or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could adversely affect our profitability.
We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and numerous international jurisdictions. Our income tax provision and cash tax liability in the future could be adversely affected by changes in the distribution of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in tax laws and the discovery of new information in the course of our tax return preparation process. The carrying value of deferred tax assets, which are predominantly in the U.S., is dependent on our ability to generate future taxable income in the U.S. We are also subject to ongoing tax audits. These audits can involve complex issues, which may require an extended period of time to resolve and can be highly judgmental. Tax authorities may disagree with certain tax reporting positions taken by us and, as a result, assess additional taxes against us. We regularly assess the likely outcomes of these audits in order to determine the appropriateness of our tax provision. The amounts ultimately paid upon resolution of these or subsequent tax audits could be materially different from the amounts previously included in our income tax provision and, therefore, could have a material impact on our tax provision.
We are exposed to risks arising from the price and availability of energy.
The level of demand for our products and services is influenced in multiple ways by the price and availability of energy. High energy costs generally drive greater demand for better fuel economy in almost all countries in which we operate. Some of our engine products have been developed with a primary purpose of offering fuel economy improvements, and if energy costs decrease or increase less than expected, demand for these products may likewise decrease. The relative unavailability of electricity in some emerging market countries also influences demand for our electricity generating products, such as our diesel generators. If these countries add energy capacity by expanding their power grids at a rate equal to or faster than the growth in demand for energy, the demand for our generating products could also decrease or increase less than would otherwise be the case.
23 Table of Contents We face reputational and legal risk from operations outside the U.S. and affiliations with joint venture partners.
Several of our foreign subsidiaries, affiliates and joint venture partners are located outside the U.S. with laws, rules and business practices that differ from those of the U.S. The activities of these entities may not comply with U.S. laws or customs or our Code of Business Conduct and actions by these entities may cause us legal or reputational risk if they violate applicable laws, rules or business practices.
We face the challenge of increasing our capacity and ramping up our production at the appropriate pace.
We experience capacity constraints and longer lead times for certain products. Accurately forecasting our expected volumes and appropriately adjusting our capacity have been, and will continue to be, important factors in determining our results of operations. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to increase manufacturing capacity to a level that meets demand for our products, which could prevent us from meeting increased customer demand and could harm our business. However, if we overestimate our demand and overbuild our capacity, we may have significantly underutilized assets and we may experience reduced margins. If we do not accurately align our manufacturing capabilities with demand it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.
Our business is exposed to risks of product liability claims.
We face an inherent business risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that our products' failure to perform to specification results or is alleged to result in property damage, bodily injury and/or death. We may experience material product liability losses in the future. While we maintain insurance coverage with respect to certain product liability claims, we may not be able to obtain such insurance on acceptable terms in the future, if at all, and any such insurance may not provide adequate coverage against product liability claims. In addition, product liability claims can be expensive to defend and can divert the attention of management and other personnel for significant periods of time, regardless of the ultimate outcome. An unsuccessful defense of a significant product liability claim could have a material adverse effect upon us. In addition, even if we are successful in defending against a claim relating to our products, claims of this nature could cause our customers to lose confidence in our products and us.
We may need to write off significant investments in our new North American light-duty diesel engine platform if customer commitments further deteriorate.
We began development of a North American light-duty diesel engine platform in July 2006 to be used in a variety of on- and off-highway applications. Since that time, and as of December31, 2011, we have capitalized investments of approximately $221million. Market uncertainty due to the global recession resulted in some customers delaying or cancelling their vehicle programs, while others remain active. If customer expectations or volume projections further deteriorate from our current expected levels and we do not identify new customers, we may need to recognize an impairment charge and write the assets down to net realizable value.
Our operations are subject to increasingly stringent environmental laws and regulations.
Our plants and operations are subject to increasingly stringent environmental laws and regulations in all of the countries in which we operate, including laws and regulations governing air emission, discharges to water and the generation, handling, storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of waste materials. While we believe that we are in compliance in all material respects with these environmental laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that we will not be adversely impacted by costs, liabilities or claims with respect to existing or subsequently acquired operations, under either 24 Table of Contents present laws and regulations or those that may be adopted or imposed in the future. We are also subject to laws requiring the cleanup of contaminated property. If a release of hazardous substances occurs at or from any of our current or former properties or at a landfill or another location where we have disposed of hazardous materials, we may be held liable for the contamination and the amount of such liability could be material.
Significant declines in future financial and stock market conditions could diminish our pension plan asset performance and adversely impact our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.
We sponsor both funded and unfunded domestic and foreign defined benefit pension and other retirement plans. Our pension expense and the required contributions to our pension plans are directly affected by the value of plan assets, the projected and actual rates of return on plan assets and the actuarial assumptions we use to measure our defined benefit pension plan obligations, including the discount rate at which future projected and accumulated pension obligations are discounted to a present value. We could experience increased pension expense due to a combination of factors, including the decreased investment performance of pension plan assets, decreases in the discount rate and changes in our assumptions relating to the expected return on plan assets.
Significant declines in future financial and stock market conditions could cause material losses in our pension plan assets, which could result in increased pension expense in future years and adverse changes to our financial condition. Depending upon the severity of market declines and government regulatory changes, we may be legally obligated to make pension payments in the U.S. and perhaps other countries, and these contributions could be material.
We may be adversely impacted by work stoppages and other labor matters.
As of December31, 2011, we employed approximately 43,900 persons worldwide. Approximately 15,700 of our employees worldwide are represented by various unions under collective bargaining agreements that expire between 2012 and 2015. While we have no reason to believe that we will be materially impacted by work stoppages or other labor matters, there can be no assurance that future issues with our labor unions will be resolved favorably or that we will not encounter future strikes, work stoppages, or other types of conflicts with labor unions or our employees. Any of these consequences may have an adverse effect on us or may limit our flexibility in dealing with our workforce. In addition, many of our customers and suppliers have unionized work forces. Work stoppages or slow-downs experienced by our customers or suppliers could result in slow-downs or closures that would have a material adverse effect on our operations.
Our financial statements are subject to changes in accounting standards that could adversely impact our profitability or financial position.
Our financial statements are subject to the application of accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP), which are periodically revised and/or expanded. Accordingly, from time to time we are required to adopt new or revised accounting standards issued by recognized authoritative bodies, including the Financial Accounting Standards Board. Recently, accounting standard setters issued new guidance which further interprets or seeks to revise accounting pronouncements related to revenue recognition and lease accounting as well as to issue new standards expanding disclosures. The impact of accounting pronouncements that have been issued but not yet implemented is disclosed in our annual and quarterly reports on Form10-K and Form10-Q. An assessment of proposed standards is not provided, as such proposals are subject to change through the exposure process and, therefore, their effects on our financial statements cannot be meaningfully assessed. It is possible that future accounting standards we are required to adopt could change the current accounting treatment that we apply to our consolidated financial statements and that such changes could have a material adverse effect on the reported results of operations and financial position.
25 Table of Contents ITEM 1B.Unresolved Staff Comments None.
ITEM 2.Properties Manufacturing Facilities Our principal manufacturing facilities include our plants used by the following segments in the following locations: Segment U.S. Facilities Facilities Outside the U.S.
Engine Indiana: Columbus, Seymour Belgium: Rumst Tennessee: Memphis Brazil: Sao Paulo New Mexico: Clovis China: Wuhan New York: Lakewood India: Pune North Carolina: Whitakers Mexico: San Luis Potosi U.K.: Darlington, Daventry, Cumbernauld Singapore: Singapore SG Components Indiana: Columbus Australia: Kilsyth Iowa: Lake Mills Brazil: Sao Paulo South Carolina: Ladson, Charleston China: Beijing, Hubei Sheng, Shanghai, Wuxi Tennessee: Cookeville France: Quimper Texas: El Paso India: Pune, Daman, Dewas, Pithampur, Wisconsin: Janesville, Mineral Point, Radurapur Neillsville Japan: Tokyo Mexico: Ciudad Juarez, San Luis Potosi Singapore: Singapore SG South Africa: Pretoria, Johannesburg South Korea: Hwasung City Turkey: Ismir U.K.: Darlington, Huddersfield Power Generation Indiana: Elkhart Brazil: Sao Paulo Minnesota: Fridley China: Wuxi, Wuhan Germany: Ingolstadt India: Pirangut, Daman, Ahmendnagar, Ranjangaon Mexico: San Luis Potosi Romania: Craiova U.K.: Margate, Manston, Stamford In addition, engines and engine components are manufactured by joint ventures or independent licensees at manufacturing plants in the U.K., China, India, Japan, Pakistan, South Korea, Turkey and Indonesia.
26 Table of Contents Distribution Facilities The principal distribution facilities used by our Distribution segment are located in the following locations: U.S. Facilities Facilities Outside the U.S.
Massachusetts: Dedham Australia: Scoresby New York: Bronx Belgium: Mechelen Pennsylvania: Bristol, Harrisburg Canada: Surrey, Edmonton China: Beijing, Shanghai Germany: Gross Gerau India: Pune Japan: Tokyo Korea: Chonan Russia: Moscow Singapore: Singapore SG South Africa: Johannesburg U.K.: Wellingborough United Arab Emirates: Dubai Headquarters and Other Offices Our Corporate Headquarters are located in Columbus, Indiana. Additional marketing and operational headquarters are in the following locations: U.S. Facilities Facilities Outside the U.S.
Indiana: Columbus, Indianapolis China: Beijing, Shanghai Tennessee: Franklin, Nashville India: Pune Washington DC U.K.: Staines, Stockton ITEM 3.Legal Proceedings We are subject to numerous lawsuits and claims arising out of the ordinary course of our business, including actions related to product liability; personal injury; the use and performance of our products; warranty matters; patent, trademark or other intellectual property infringement; contractual liability; the conduct of our business; tax reporting in foreign jurisdictions; distributor termination; workplace safety; and environmental matters. We also have been identified as a potentially responsible party at multiple waste disposal sites under U.S. federal and related state environmental statutes and regulations and may have joint and several liability for any investigation and remediation costs incurred with respect to such sites. We have denied liability with respect to many of these lawsuits, claims and proceedings and are vigorously defending such lawsuits, claims and proceedings. We carry various forms of commercial, property and casualty, product liability and other forms of insurance; however, such insurance may not be applicable or adequate to cover the costs associated with a judgment against us with respect to these lawsuits, claims and proceedings. We do not believe that these lawsuits are material individually or in the aggregate. While we believe we have also established adequate accruals for our expected future liability with respect to pending lawsuits, claims and proceedings, where the nature and extent of any such liability can be reasonably estimated based upon then presently available information, there can be no assurance that the final resolution of any existing or future lawsuits, claims or proceedings will not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.
We conduct significant business operations in Brazil that are subject to the Brazilian federal, state and local labor, social security, tax and customs laws. While we believe we comply with such laws, they 27 Table of Contents are complex, subject to varying interpretations and we are often engaged in litigation regarding the application of these laws to particular circumstances.
In June 2008, four of our sites in Southern Indiana, including our Technical Center, experienced extensive flood damage. In October 2011, we received $40million from our insurance carriers to settle all outstanding 2008 flood claims. As a result, we recognized a gain of approximately $38million ($24 million after-tax), net of any remaining flood related expenses, in "Other operating (expense) income, net" in our Consolidated Statements of Income .
ITEM 4.Mine Safety Disclosures Not Applicable.
PART II ITEM 5.Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities (a)Our common stock is listed on the NYSE under the symbol "CMI." For information about the quoted market prices of our common stock, information regarding dividend payments and the number of common stock shareholders, see "Selected Quarterly Financial Data" in this report. For other matters related to our common stock and shareholders' equity, see Note15, "SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY," to the Consolidated Financial Statements .
(b)Use of proceedsnot applicable.
(c)The following information is provided pursuant to Item703 of RegulationS-K: Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Period (a) Total Number of Shares Purchased(1) (b) Average Price Paid per Share (c) Total Number of Shares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Plans or Programs (d) Maximum Number of Shares that May Yet Be Purchased Under the Plans or Programs(2) September26, - October30, 2011 44,748 $ 81.20 41,363 190,655 October31 - November27, 2011 3,964 102.77  188,493 November28 - December31, 2011 900,185 88.56 898,888 185,094 Total 948,897 $ 88.27 940,251 (1) Shares purchased represent shares under the 2011 Board of Directors authorized $1billion repurchase program and our Key Employee Stock Investment Plan established in 1969 (there is no maximum repurchase limitation in this plan).
(2) These values reflect the sum of shares held in loan status under our Key Employee Stock Investment Plan. The repurchase program authorized by the Board of Directors does not limit the number of shares that may be purchased and was excluded from this column.
In December 2007, the Board of Directors authorized us to acquire up to $500million of our common stock beginning in 2008. We acquired $128million in 2008, $20million in 2009, $241million in 2010 and $111million in 2011, completing the repurchase program. In February 2011, the Board of Directors approved a new share repurchase program and authorized the acquisition of up to $1billion of our common stock upon the completion of the $500million program. We acquired $ 518million of our common stock in 2011, or 5.3million shares, leaving $ 482million available for purchase under this authorization at December31, 2011. We repurchased a total of 6.4million shares of common stock in 2011 at a cost of $629million.
28 Table of Contents During the fourth quarter of 2011, we repurchased 8,646 shares from employees in connection with the Key Employee Stock Investment Plan which allows certain employees, other than officers, to purchase shares of common stock on an installment basis up to an established credit limit. Loans are issued for initial five-year terms at a fixed interest rate established at the date of purchase and may be refinanced after its initial five-year period for an additional five-year period. Participants must hold shares for a minimum of six months from date of purchase and after shares are sold must wait six months before another share purchase may be made. We hold participants' shares as security for the loans and would, in effect repurchase shares if the participant defaulted in repayment of the loan. There is no maximum amount of shares that we may purchase under this plan.
Performance Graph (Unaudited) The following Performance Graph and related information shall not be deemed "soliciting material" or to be "filed" with the Securities and Exchange Commission, nor shall such information be incorporated by reference into any of our future filings under the Securities Act of 1933 or Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each as amended, except to the extent that we specifically incorporate it by reference into such filing.
The following graph compares the cumulative total shareholder return on our common stock for the last five years with the cumulative total return on the S&P500 Index and an index of peer companies selected by us. Our peer group includes BorgWarner Inc, Caterpillar,Inc., Daimler AG, Danaher Corporation, Deere& Company, Donaldson CompanyInc., Eaton Corporation, Emerson ElectricCo., W.W. GraingerInc. , Honeywell International, Illinois Tool WorksInc., Ingersoll-Rand CompanyLtd., Navistar International Corporation, PACCAR Inc, Parker-Hannifin Corporation, TextronInc. and Volvo AB. Each of the measures of cumulative total return assumes reinvestment of dividends. The comparisons in this table are required by the SEC and are not intended to forecast or be indicative of possible future performance of our stock.
COMPARISON OF 5-YEAR CUMULATIVE TOTAL RETURN AMONG CUMMINS, INC., S&P 500 INDEX AND CUSTOM PEER GROUP *ASSUMES $100 INVESTED ON DEC. 31, 2006 ASSUMES DIVIDEND REINVESTED FISCAL YEAR ENDING DEC. 31, 2011 29 Table of Contents ITEM 6.Selected Financial Data The selected financial information presented below for each of the last five years ended December31, beginning with 2011, was derived from our Consolidated Financial Statements . This information should be read in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations." In millions, except per share amounts 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 For the years ended December31, Net sales $ 18,048 $ 13,226 $ 10,800 $ 14,342 $ 13,048 U.S. percentage of sales 41 % 36 % 48 % 41 % 46 % Non-U.S. percentage of sales 59 % 64 % 52 % 59 % 54 % Gross margin 4,589 3,168 2,169 2,940 2,556 Research, development and engineering expenses 629 414 362 422 329 Equity, royalty and interest income from investees 416 351 214 253 205 Interest expense 44 40 35 42 58 Consolidated net income(1) 1,946 1,140 484 818 788 Net income attributable to CumminsInc.(1)(2) 1,848 1,040 428 755 739 Net earnings per share attributable to CumminsInc.(3) Basic $ 9.58 $ 5.29 $ 2.17 $ 3.87 $ 3.72 Diluted 9.55 5.28 2.16 3.84 3.70 Cash dividends declared per share 1.325 0.875 0.70 0.60 0.43 Cash flows from operations $ 2,073 $ 1,006 $ 1,137 $ 987 $ 810 Capital expenditures 622 364 310 543 353 At December31, Cash and cash equivalents $ 1,484 $ 1,023 $ 930 $ 426 $ 577 Total assets 11,668 10,402 8,816 8,519 8,195 Long-term debt 658 709 637 629 555 Total equity(4) 5,831 4,996 4,020 3,480 3,702 (1) For the year ended December31, 2011, consolidated net income included a $68 million gain ($37 million after-tax) related to the disposition of certain assets and liabilities of our exhaust business and a $53 million gain ($33 million after-tax) recorded for the disposition of certain assets and liabilities of our light-duty filtration business, both from the Components segment, and a $38 million gain ($24 million after-tax) related to flood damage recoveries from the insurance settlement related to a June 2008 flood in Southern Indiana. For the year ended December31, 2010, consolidated net income included $32 million in Brazil tax recoveries ($21 million after-tax) and $2 million in flood damage expenses. In 2010 it was determined that we overpaid a Brazilian revenue based tax during the period of 2004-2008. Consolidated net income includes a pre-tax recovery related to tax credits on imported products arising from this overpayment. For the year ended December31, 2009, consolidated net income included $99 million in restructuring and other charges and a gain of $12 million related to flood damage recoveries. For the year ended December31, 2008, consolidated net income included a $37 million restructuring charge, a $36 million decrease in cash surrender value in corporate owned life insurance and $5 million of losses related to flood damages.
(2) On January1, 2009, we adopted changes issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board to consolidation accounting and reporting. These changes, among others, require that minority interests be renamed noncontrolling interests and a company present a consolidated net income 30 Table of Contents measure that includes the amount attributable to such noncontrolling interests for all periods presented.
(3) All per share amounts have been adjusted for the impact of a two-for-one stock split on April9, 2007 and an additional two-for-one stock split on January2, 2008.
(4) In 2008, we recorded a $433 million non-cash charge to equity to reflect losses associated with the effect of market conditions on our pension plans. In 2010, we recorded a $125 million non-cash credit to equity to reflect gains associated with the effect of market conditions on our pension plans.
31 Table of Contents ITEM 7.Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ORGANIZATION OF INFORMATION The following Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ("MD&A") was prepared to provide the reader with a view and perspective of our business through the eyes of management and should be read in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements and the accompanying notes to those financial statements. Our MD&A is presented in the following sections:  Executive Summary and Financial Highlights  2012 Outlook  Results of Operations  Restructuring and Other Charges  Operating Segment Results  Liquidity and Capital Resources  Contractual Obligations and Other Commercial Commitments  Application of Critical Accounting Estimates  Recently Adopted and Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements 32 Table of Contents EXECUTIVE SUMMARY AND FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS We are a global power leader that designs, manufactures, distributes and services diesel and natural gas engines and engine-related component products, including filtration, exhaust aftertreatment, fuel systems, controls systems, air handling systems and electric power generation systems. We sell our products to original equipment manufacturers (OEMs), distributors and other customers worldwide. We have long-standing relationships with many of the leading manufacturers in the markets we serve, including PACCAR Inc, Chrysler Group,LLC, Daimler Trucks North America, MAN Nutzfahrzeuge AG, Ford Motor Company, Komatsu, Volvo AB and Case New Holland. We serve our customers through a network of more than 600 company-owned and independent distributor locations and approximately 6,500 dealer locations in more than 190 countries and territories.
Our reportable operating segments consist of the following: Engine, Components, Power Generation and Distribution. This reporting structure is organized according to the products and markets each segment serves and allows management to focus its efforts on providing enhanced service to a wide range of customers. The Engine segment produces engines and parts for sale to customers in on-highway and various industrial markets. Our engines are used in trucks of all sizes, buses and recreational vehicles, as well as in various industrial applications, including construction, mining, agriculture, marine, oil and gas, rail and military equipment. The Components segment sells filtration products, exhaust aftertreatment systems, turbochargers and fuel systems. The Power Generation segment is an integrated provider of power systems which sells engines, generator sets and alternators. The Distribution segment includes wholly-owned and partially-owned distributorships engaged in wholesaling engines, generator sets and service parts, as well as performing service and repair activities on our products and maintaining relationships with various OEMsthroughout the world.
Our financial performance depends, in large part, on varying conditions in the markets we serve, particularly the on-highway, construction and general industrial markets. Demand in these markets tends to fluctuate in response to overall economic conditions and is particularly sensitive to changes in interest rate levels and our customers' access to credit. Our sales may also be impacted by OEM inventory levels and production schedules and stoppages. Economic downturns in markets we serve generally result in reductions in sales and pricing of our products. As a worldwide business, our operations are also affected by currency, political, economic and regulatory matters, including adoption and enforcement of environmental and emission standards, in the countries we serve. As part of our growth strategy, we invest in businesses in certain countries that carry high levels of these risks such as China, Brazil, India, Mexico, South Africa, Russia and countries in the Middle East. At the same time, our geographic diversity and broad product and service offerings have helped limit the impact from a drop in demand in any one industry or customer or the economy of any single country on our consolidated results.
In 2011, certain North American markets experienced robust recoveries, especially the North American on-highway markets which was enhanced by the depletion of transition engine inventory purchased in 2009 in advance of the EPA's 2010 emission change. Demand for heavy-duty on-highway products in North America was three times higher in 2011 compared to 2010 and medium-duty truck and bus shipments in North America were two times higher. North American oil and gas markets and global mining markets also continued to experience strong growth in 2011. Emerging markets continued to experience strong growth in 2011, especially in the international construction markets. Emerging market growth was particularly strong in China, India and Brazil, although the growth rates began to soften in the second half of the year, especially in the on-highway truck and off-highway construction markets in China and power generation markets in India. Growth rates are slowing in certain emerging markets like China and India as governments look to control inflation through tight monetary policies in the form of rising interest rates and tightening access to credit. Currently, inflation concerns appear to be declining in China and there is a growing expectation that the government will start to ease monetary policy, which would enhance our end markets. Inflation concerns in India also appear to be 33 Table of Contents declining. The European economy remains an uncertainty as we enter 2012, with continued volatility in the Euro countries. Although we do not have any significant direct exposure to European sovereign debt, we do generate approximately nine percent of our net sales from Euro zone countries. Therefore, continued economic decline in Europe could have an adverse impact on our financial results.
The following table contains sales and EBIT results by operating segment for the years ended 2011 and 2010. Refer to the section titled "Operating Segment Results" for a more detailed discussion of net sales and EBIT by operating segment including the reconciliation of segment EBIT to income before taxes.
Operating Segments 2011 2010 Percent change 2011 vs. 2010 Percent of Total Percent of Total In millions Sales EBIT Sales EBIT Sales EBIT Engine $ 11,307 63 % $ 1,384 $ 7,888 60 % $ 809 43 % 71 % Components 4,063 23 % 470 3,046 23 % 278 33 % 69 % Power Generation 3,498 19 % 373 2,919 22 % 299 20 % 25 % Distribution 3,044 17 % 386 2,324 18 % 297 31 % 30 % Intersegment eliminations (3,864 ) (22 )%  (2,951 ) (23 )%  31 %  Non segment   102   (26 )  NM Total $ 18,048 100 % $ 2,715 $ 13,226 100 % $ 1,657 36 % 64 % Net income attributable to CumminsInc. for 2011 was $1,848million, or $9.55 per diluted share, on sales of $18.0billion, compared to 2010 net income attributable to CumminsInc. of $1,040million, or $5.28 per diluted share, on sales of $13.2billion. The increase in income was driven by higher volumes in most markets and geographic regions, including the recovery of the North American on-highway truck markets, stronger demand in certain emerging markets, significantly improved gross margins, the gain on disposition of certain assets and liabilities of our exhaust business and light-duty filtration business, a lower effective tax rate, increased equity income and the gain related to flood damage recoveries from the insurance settlement regarding a June 2008 flood in Southern Indiana. These were partially offset by higher selling, general and administrative expenses and research, development and engineering expenses in 2011 as compared to 2010. Diluted earnings per share for 2011 also benefited $0.17 from lower shares primarily due to the stock repurchase program.
In 2011, we recorded a gain on the disposition of certain assets and liabilities of our exhaust business of $68million ($37million after-tax or $0.19 per diluted share) and a gain on the disposition of certain assets and liabilities of our light-duty filtration business of $53million ($33million after-tax or $0.17 per diluted share). For a detailed discussion of the divestitures, see Note2, "DIVESTITURES AND ACQUISITIONS," to the Consolidated Financial Statements . Also in 2011, we recorded a gain related to flood damage recoveries from the insurance settlement for a June 2008 flood in Southern Indiana of $38million ($24million after-tax or $0.13 per diluted share). For a detailed discussion of the gain, see Note14, "COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES," to the Consolidated Financial Statements . The gains have been excluded from segment results as they were not considered in our evaluation of operating results for the year. In 2010, we recorded a recovery of $32million ($21million after-tax, or $0.11 per diluted share) related to the overpayment of revenue based taxes on imported products in Brazil from 2004-2008. The tax recovery was recorded in cost of sales in our non segment business results as it was not considered in our evaluation of operating results for the year.
We generated $2.1billion of operating cash flows in 2011, compared to $1.0billion in 2010. Refer to the section titled "Operating Activities" in the "Liquidity and Capital Resources" section for a discussion of items impacting cash flows.
34 Table of Contents In December 2007, our Board of Directors authorized the acquisition of up to $500million of our common stock which was completed in the first quarter of 2011. In February 2011, the Board of Directors approved a new share repurchase program and authorized the acquisition of up to $1billion of Cummins common stock upon the completion of the $500million program. We repurchased $629 million in 2011, $ 111million of which was under the repurchase program that was originally authorized in 2007 and $ 518million of which was under the repurchase program that was authorized in 2011.
In July 2011, our Board of Directors authorized a dividend increase of 52percent to $0.40 per share on a quarterly basis effective in the third quarter. Our debt to capital ratio (capital is defined as debt plus equity) at December31, 2011, was 11.8percent, compared to 14.4percent at December31, 2010. As of the date of filing of this Annual Report on Form10-K, we had a Baa1 credit rating with a positive outlook from Moody's Investors Service,Inc., an A credit rating with a stable outlook from Standard& Poor's Rating Services and an A- credit rating and a positive outlook from Fitch Ratings. In addition to our $1.8billion in cash and marketable securities on hand, we have sufficient access to our revolving credit facility with $1.2billion available, net of outstanding letters of credit and our accounts receivable program with $209million available, based on eligible reserves, to meet currently anticipated growth and funding needs.
Our global pension plans, including our unfunded non-qualified plans, were 98percent funded at year-end 2011. Our U.S. qualified plan, which represents approximately 60percent of our worldwide pension obligation, was 103percent funded and the international plans were 106percent funded. Asset returns in 2011 for the U.S. qualified plan were 13percent while the year-end 2011 discount rate was 4.8percent, down 0.6percentage points from the 2010 discount rate of 5.4percent. We expect to contribute $130million of cash to our global pension plans in 2012. We do not have a required minimum pension contribution obligation for our U.S. plans in 2012. We expect pension and other postretirement benefit expense in 2012 to increase by approximately $4million pre-tax, or $0.01 per diluted share, when compared to 2011. Refer to application of critical accounting estimates within MD&A and Note12, "PENSION AND OTHER POST RETIREMENT BENEFITS," to the Consolidated Financial Statements , for additional information concerning our pension and other post-retirement benefit plans.
2012 OUTLOOK Near-Term: In 2011, North America experienced a robust recovery in demand in heavy-, medium- and light-duty on-highway truck markets. Economies in emerging markets, including China, India and Brazil, experienced strong growth although demand began to soften in the second half of the year, especially in on-highway truck and off-highway construction markets in China and power generation markets in India.
We currently expect the following positive trends in 2012:  The North American on-highway truck markets are expected to remain strong.
Global oil and gas and mining markets are expected to remain strong.
India's power generation markets are expected to improve and truck orders are expected to remain strong.
Brazil is expected to continue experiencing growth in the power generation business and is anticipating growth in the aftertreatment business as the result of the 2012 emissions change.
Components sales in Brazil are expected to increase following the implementation of Euro V emission regulations.
35 Table of Contents We currently expect the following challenges to our business that may reduce our earnings potential in 2012:  In China and India, demand in certain industrial markets could remain low in the first half of 2012, although improvements are expected in the second half of the year.
Our engine sales in Brazil in 2012 could be negatively impacted by pre-buy activity in the second half of 2011 ahead of the implementation of Euro V emission regulations, as well as one of our customers replacing our B6.7 engine with their own proprietary engine.
Demand in certain European markets could decline in 2012.
We will increase our investment in new product development.
Currency volatility could put pressure on earnings in 2012.
Long-Term: We believe that, over the longer term, there will be economic improvements in most of our current markets and that our opportunities for long-term profitable growth will continue in the future.
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Favorable/(Unfavorable) Years ended December31, 2011 vs. 2010 2010 vs. 2009 In millions (except per share amounts) 2011 2010 2009 Amount Percent Amount Percent Net sales $ 18,048 $ 13,226 $ 10,800 $ 4,822 36 % $ 2,426 22 % Cost of sales 13,459 10,058 8,631 (3,401 ) (34 )% (1,427 ) (17 )% Gross margin 4,589 3,168 2,169 1,421 45 % 999 46 % Operating expenses and income Selling, general and administrative expenses 1,837 1,487 1,239 (350 ) (24 )% (248 ) (20 )% Research, development and engineering expenses 629 414 362 (215 ) (52 )% (52 ) (14 )% Equity, royalty and interest income from investees 416 351 214 65 19 % 137 64 % Gain on sale of businesses 121   121 100 %   Restructuring and other charges   99   99 100 % Other operating (expense) income, net 21 (16 ) (1 ) 37 NM (15 ) NM Operating income 2,681 1,602 682 1,079 67 % 920 NM Interest income 34 21 8 13 62 % 13 NM Interest expense 44 40 35 (4 ) (10 )% (5 ) (14 )% Other income (expense), net  34 (15 ) (34 ) (100 )% 49 NM Income before income taxes 2,671 1,617 640 1,054 65 % 977 NM Income tax expense 725 477 156 (248 ) (52 )% (321 ) NM Consolidated net income 1,946 1,140 484 806 71 % 656 NM Less: Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests 98 100 56 2 2 % (44 ) (79 )% Net income attributable to Cummins Inc .
$ 1,848 $ 1,040 $ 428 $ 808 78 % $ 612 NM Diluted earnings per common share attributable to Cummins Inc .
$ 9.55 $ 5.28 $ 2.16 $ 4.27 81 % $ 3.12 NM 36 Table of Contents Favorable/(Unfavorable) Percentage Points Percent of sales 2011 2010 2009 2011 vs. 2010 2010 vs. 2009 Gross margin 25.4 % 24.0 % 20.1 % 1.4 3.9 Selling, general and administrative expenses 10.2 % 11.2 % 11.5 % 1.0 0.3 Research, development and engineering expenses 3.5 % 3.1 % 3.4 % (0.4 ) 0.3 2011 vs. 2010 Net Sales Sales increased in all segments primarily due to increased demand from most markets including recovery of the North American on-highway markets. The primary drivers for the increase in sales were:  Engine segment sales increased by 43percent due to increased demand in all lines of business led by heavy-duty truck, industrial and medium-duty truck and bus businesses.
Components segment sales increased by 33percent due to increased demand in all lines of business led by emission solutions and turbo technologies businesses.
Power Generation segment sales increased by 20percent due to increased demand in all lines of business led by commercial products and generator technologies businesses and improved price realization.
Distribution segment sales increased by 31percent due to increased demand in all product lines and all geographic regions led by Asia Pacific, North and Central America, Europe and Middle East regions.
A more detailed discussion of sales by segment is presented in the "OPERATING SEGMENT RESULTS" section.
Sales to international markets were 59percent of total net sales in 2011, compared with 64percent of total net sales in 2010.
Gross Margin Gross margin increased by $ 1,421million and as a percentage of sales increased by 1.4percentage points. The significant improvement was led by increases in volume, improved price realization, higher product content on certain products and favorable currency impacts, partially offset by higher material costs, higher commodity costs and higher base warranty costs due to increased volumes and increasing mix of EPA 2010 products. Gross margin in 2010 also benefited from a one-time $32million tax recovery in Brazil. See Note14, "COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES," in our Consolidated Financial Statements for more information.
The provision for warranties issued as a percentage of sales in 2011 was 2.1percent compared to 3.0percent in 2010. Accrual rates for engines sold this year were generally lower than the rates charged in prior years as our warranty costs for EPA 2010 products have been lower than expected. A more detailed discussion of margin by segment is presented in the "OPERATING SEGMENT RESULTS" section.
Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses increased primarily due to an increase of $174million in compensation and related expenses including increased headcount to support our strategic growth initiatives, merit increases and increased discretionary spending. Compensation and related expenses include salaries, fringe benefits and variable compensation. Variable compensation related to 2011 performance increased $42million over variable compensation related to 2010 performance. Overall, selling, general and administrative expenses, as a percentage of sales, decreased from 11.2percent in 2010 to 10.2percent in 2011.
37 Table of Contents Research, Development and Engineering Expenses Research, development and engineering expenses increased primarily due to an increase of $79million in compensation and related expenses, an increase in the number of engineering programs with increased costs of $79million and increased discretionary spending. Compensation and related expenses include salaries, fringe benefits and variable compensation. Variable compensation related to 2011 performance increased $8million over variable compensation related to 2010 performance. Overall, research, development and engineering expenses, as a percentage of sales, increased to 3.5percent in 2011 from 3.1percent in 2010. Research activities continue to focus on development of new products to meet future emission standards around the world and improvements in fuel economy performance.
Equity, Royalty and Interest Income From Investees Equity, royalty and interest income from investees increased primarily due to the following: In millions 2011 vs. 2010 Increase/(Decrease) North American distributors $ 33 Chongqing Cummins Engine Company,Ltd.
22 Beijing Foton Cummins EngineCo.,Ltd.
9 Dongfeng Cummins Engine Company,Ltd.
(19 ) Other 9 Royalty and interest income 11 These overall increases were primarily due to the economic recovery in North America, particularly in the oil and gas markets, and strong demand for power generation and mining products in China with CCEC, which was partially offset by lower sales at DCEC due to weaker demand in the on-highway truck market.
Gain on Sale of Businesses In the second quarter of 2011, we sold certain assets and liabilities of our exhaust business which manufactures exhaust products and select components for emission systems for a variety of applications not core to our other product offerings. This business was historically included in our Components segment. The sales price was $123million. We recognized a gain on the sale of $68million ($37million after-tax), which included a goodwill allocation of $19million. The gain was excluded from segment results as it was not considered in our evaluation of operating results for the year ended December31, 2011.
Sales for this business were $62million, $171million and $126million in 2011 (through closing), 2010 and 2009, respectively. Operating results for this business were approximately $9million, $22million and $11million in 2011 (through closing), 2010 and 2009, respectively.
During the fourth quarter of 2011, we sold certain assets and liabilities of our light-duty filtration business which manufactures light-duty automotive and industrial filtration solutions. The sales price was $90million and included a note receivable from the buyer of approximately $1million. There are no earnouts or other contingencies associated with the sales price. We recognized a gain on the sale of $53million ($33million after-tax), which included a goodwill allocation of $6million. The gain was excluded from segment results as it was not considered in our evaluation of operating results for the year ended December31, 2011.
Sales for this business were $64million, $74million and $54million in 2011 (through closing), 2010 and 2009, respectively. Operating results for this business were approximately $13million, $9million and $2million in 2011 (through closing), 2010 and 2009, respectively.
38 Table of Contents We have entered into supply and other agreements with the operations that represent ongoing involvement and as such, the results of these operations have not been presented as discontinued operations.
Other Operating (Expense) Income, Net Other operating (expense) income was as follows: Years ended December31, In millions 2011 2010 Flood damage gain (loss) $ 38 $ (2 ) Royalty income 12 10 Royalty expense (3 ) (3 ) Amortization of intangible assets (5 ) (15 ) Legal settlement (5 )  Gain (loss) on sale of fixed assets (10 ) (4 ) Other, net (6 ) (2 ) Total other operating (expense) income, net $ 21 $ (16 ) In June 2008, four of our sites in Southern Indiana, including our Technical Center, experienced extensive flood damage. In October 2011, we received $40million from our insurance carriers to settle all outstanding 2008 flood claims. As a result, we recognized a gain of approximately $38million ($24million after-tax), net of any remaining flood related expenses, in "Other operating (expense) income, net" in our Consolidated Statements of Income .
Interest Income Interest income increased primarily due to higher average cash balances in addition to higher average interest rates.
Interest Expense Interest expense increased primarily due to lower capitalized interest in 2011 and higher average debt, partially offset by lower interest rates.
Other Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense) was as follows: Years ended December31, In millions 2011 2010 Change in cash surrender value of corporate owned life insurance $ 12 $ 12 Dividend income 7 7 Gain on fair value adjustment for Cummins Western Canada  12 Life insurance proceeds  7 Foreign currency gains (losses), net (14 ) (1 ) Bank charges (16 ) (15 ) Other, net 11 12 Total other income (expense), net $  $ 34 39 Table of Contents Income Tax Expense Our income tax rates are generally less than the 35percent U.S. statutory income tax rate primarily because of lower taxes on foreign earnings and research tax credits. Our effective tax rate for 2011 was 27.1percent compared to 29.5percent for 2010. Our 2011 income tax provision includes a discrete tax benefit of $48million related to prior year refund claims filed for additional research tax credits, as well as additional foreign income and related foreign tax credits, net of related tax reserves. Our effective tax rate for 2011 also includes a tax benefit of $19million related to the release of deferred U.S. tax liabilities on certain foreign earnings, as a result of restructuring our foreign operations. Also included in 2011 is a discrete tax benefit of $16million resulting from the reduction of our unrecognized tax benefits primarily due to settlements with taxing authorities. The 2011 income tax provision also includes other discrete tax items totaling to a $2million net tax charge, primarily relating to the enactment of state law changes in Indiana and the U.K. as well as adjustments to our income tax accounts based on our 2010 tax return filings. Our 2010 income tax provision includes a $17million reduction in the fourth quarter related to the legislative reinstatement of the U.S. research tax credit as well as a $3million discrete tax benefit related to the release of deferred U.S. tax liabilities on foreign earnings now considered to be permanently reinvested outside of the U.S.
We expect our 2012 effective tax rate to be 29percent excluding any discrete items that may arise. The research tax credit expired December31, 2011, and has not yet been renewed by Congress. If the research credit is reinstated, we would anticipate the 2012 effective tax rate to be 28percent. Earnings of our China operations will be considered to be permanently reinvested beginning in 2012 and additional U.S. deferred tax will no longer be provided on future earnings. We have $693million of retained earnings and related cumulative translation adjustments in our China operations as of December31, 2011 and have provided a U.S. deferred tax liability of $172million related to these earnings that will be distributed to the U.S. in the future as well as the related translation impacts as of December31, 2011.
Noncontrolling Interests Noncontrolling interests eliminate the income or loss attributable to non-Cummins ownership interests in our consolidated entities. Noncontrolling interests in income of consolidated subsidiaries decreased primarily due to a decline of $9million at Wuxi Cummins Turbo TechnologiesCo.Ltd. and $4million at Cummins IndiaLtd., a publicly traded company on various exchanges in India. These decreases were partially offset by an increase of $6million at Cummins Western CanadaLP, $4million at Cummins Power SystemsLLC and $1million at Cummins Northeast LLC.
Net Income Attributable to CumminsInc. and Diluted Earnings Per Share Attributable to CumminsInc.
Net income and diluted earnings per share attributable to CumminsInc. increased primarily due to higher volumes in most markets and geographic regions, including the recovery of the North American on-highway truck markets, significantly improved gross margins, the gain on disposition of certain assets and liabilities of our exhaust business and our light-duty filtration business, a lower effective tax rate, increased equity income and the gain related to flood damage recoveries from the insurance settlement regarding a June 2008 flood in Southern Indiana. These favorable drivers were partially offset by higher selling, general and administrative expenses and research, development and engineering expenses in 2011 as compared to 2010. Diluted earnings per share for 2011 also benefited $0.17 from lower shares primarily due to the stock repurchase program.
40 Table of Contents 2010 vs. 2009 Net Sales Sales increased in all segments primarily due to increased demand from the recovery of emerging markets and improvement in developed markets. The primary drivers for the increase in sales were:  Engine segment sales increased by 23percent due to increased demand in most lines of business, led by increased demand in international industrial sales, stationary power engine sales, North American light-duty automotive sales and international medium-duty truck sales.
Components segment sales increased by 29percent due to increased demand in all lines of business led by emission solutions, turbo technologies and filtration businesses.
Power Generation segment sales increased by 21percent due to increased sales in most lines of business led by commercial products.
Distribution segment sales increased by 30percent primarily due to the acquisition of the majority interest in an equity investee and increased sales in all geographic regions.
A more detailed discussion of sales by segment is presented in the "OPERATING SEGMENT RESULTS" section.
Sales to international markets were 64percent of total net sales in 2010, compared with 52percent of total net sales in 2009.
Gross Margin Gross margin increased by $999million and as a percentage of sales increased by 3.9percentage points. The significant improvement was led by higher volumes, decreases in warranty expense, increased pricing and favorable material costs.
The warranty provision on sales issued in 2010 as a percentage of sales was 3.0percent compared to 3.3percent in 2009. The decrease as a percentage of sales was primarily due to engine mix. A more detailed discussion of margin by segment is presented in the "OPERATING SEGMENT RESULTS" section.
In the third quarter of 2010, it was determined that we overpaid a Brazilian revenue based tax on imported products during the period 2004-2008. Our results include a pre-tax recovery of $32million in cost of sales ($21million after-tax) related to tax credits arising from an overpayment. This recovery has been excluded from segment results as it was not considered in our evaluation of operating results for the year.
Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses increased primarily due to higher volumes in support of the business and an increase of $151million in compensation and related expenses. Compensation and related expenses include salaries, fringe benefits and variable compensation. Variable compensation related to 2010 performance increased $93million over variable compensation related to 2009 performance. Salaries and fringe benefits increased due to severance actions taken throughout 2009 that were partially offset by increased employment in 2010. Overall, selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of sales decreased slightly to 11.2percent in 2010 from 11.5percent in 2009.
Research, Development and Engineering Expenses Research, development and engineering expenses increased primarily due to an increase of $35million in compensation and related expenses and a decrease of $24million in reimbursements.
41 Table of Contents Compensation and related expenses include salaries, fringe benefits and variable compensation. Variable compensation related to 2010 performance increased $20million over variable compensation related to 2009 performance. Overall, research, development and engineering expenses, as a percentage of sales, decreased slightly to 3.1percent in 2010 from 3.4percent in 2009. Research activities continue to focus on development of new products to meet future emission standards around the world and improvements in fuel economy performance.
Equity, Royalty and Interest Income From Investees Equity, royalty and interest income from investees increased primarily due to the following: In millions 2010 vs. 2009 Increase/(Decrease) Dongfeng Cummins Engine Company,Ltd.
$ 66 Komatsu manufacturing alliances 13 Royalty and interest income 12 These overall increases were primarily due to higher demand as a result of economic recovery in emerging markets.
Other Operating (Expense) Income, Net Other operating (expense) income was as follows: Years ended December31, In millions 2010 2009 Amortization of intangible assets $ (15 ) $ (7 ) Loss on sale of fixed assets (4 ) (8 ) Royalty expense (3 ) (7 ) Flood damage (loss) gain(1) (2 ) 12 Royalty income 10 8 Other, net (2 ) 1 Total other operating (expense) income, net $ (16 ) $ (1 ) (1) In 2009, the flood gain represents flood insurance proceeds received which more than offset flood related expenses recognized in 2009 and 2008.
Interest Income Interest income increased primarily due to higher investment balances in 2010 compared to 2009.
Interest Expense Interest expense increased primarily due to higher borrowings in 2010 compared to 2009.
42 Table of Contents Other Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense) was as follows: Years ended December31, In millions 2010 2009 Change in cash surrender value of corporate owned life insurance(1) $ 12 $ (4 ) Gain on fair value adjustment for Cummins Western Canada 12  Dividend income 7 5 Life insurance proceeds 7  Foreign currency losses, net(2) (1 ) (20 ) Bank charges (15 ) (14 ) Other, net 12 18 Total other income (expense), net $ 34 $ (15 ) (1) The change in cash surrender value of corporate owned life insurance for the year ended December31, 2010, was due to improved market performance. The change in the cash surrender value of corporate owned life insurance for the year ended December31, 2009, was due to market deterioration.
(2) The foreign currency exchange losses in 2009 were due to unfavorable currency fluctuations; primarily in the British Pound and Brazilian Real.
Income Tax Expense Our income tax rates are generally less than the 35percent U.S. statutory income tax rate primarily because of lower taxes on foreign earnings and research tax credits. Our effective tax rate for 2010 was 29.5percent compared to 24.4percent for 2009. Our 2010 income tax provision also includes a $17million (1.1percent) reduction in the fourth quarter related to the legislative reinstatement of the U.S. research tax credit. During 2010, we also released $3million (0.2percent) of deferred U.S. tax liabilities on foreign earnings now considered to be permanently reinvested outside of the U.S. Our 2009 income tax provision also includes a $29million (4.5percent) reduction in the fourth quarter related to adjustments to deferred tax accounts. In 2009, we released $19million of deferred tax liabilities on foreign earnings now considered to be permanently reinvested outside of the U.S. and recorded a deferred tax asset of $10million related to prior period matters.
Noncontrolling Interests Noncontrolling interests eliminate the income or loss attributable to non-Cummins ownership interests in our consolidated entities. Noncontrolling interests in income of consolidated subsidiaries increased primarily due to an increase of $18million at Cummins IndiaLtd., a publicly traded company on various exchanges in India and a $15million increase from Wuxi Cummins Turbo TechnologiesCo.Ltd., reflecting the economic recovery in emerging markets.
Net Income Attributable to CumminsInc. and Diluted Earnings Per Share Attributable to CumminsInc.
Net income and diluted earnings per share attributable to CumminsInc. increased primarily due to higher volumes in emerging markets and certain developed countries, significantly improved gross margins, increased equity income and restructuring charges incurred in 2009 that were not repeated in 2010. These were partially offset by higher income tax expense, selling, general and administrative expenses and research, development and engineering expenses. Diluted earnings per share also benefited $0.06 from lower shares primarily due to the stock repurchase program.
43 Table of Contents RESTRUCTURING AND OTHER CHARGES 2009 Restructuring Actions In 2009, we executed restructuring actions in response to a reduction in orders in most of our U.S. and foreign markets due to the deterioration in the global economy. We reduced our global workforce by approximately 1,000 professional employees. In addition, we took numerous employee actions at many of our manufacturing locations, including approximately 3,200hourly employees, significant downsizing at numerous facilities and complete closure of several facilities and branch distributor locations. Employee termination and severance costs were recorded based on approved plans developed by the businesses and corporate management which specified positions to be eliminated, benefits to be paid under existing severance plans, union contracts or statutory requirements and the expected timetable for completion of the plan. Estimates of restructuring costs were made based on information available at the time charges were recorded.
In response to closures and downsizing noted above, we incurred $2million of restructuring expenses for lease terminations and $5million of restructuring expenses for asset impairments. During 2009, we recorded a total pre-tax restructuring charge of $85million, comprising $90million of charges related to 2009 actions net of the $3million favorable change in estimate related to 2008 actions and the $2million favorable change in estimate related to earlier 2009 actions, in "Restructuring and other charges" in the Consolidated Statements of Income . These restructuring actions included: In millions Year ended December31, 2009 Workforce reductions $ 81 Exit activities 7 Other 2 Changes in estimate (5 ) Total restructuring charges 85 Curtailment loss 14 Total restructuring and other charges $ 99 In addition, as a result of the restructuring actions described above, we also recorded a $14million curtailment loss in our pension and other postretirement plans. See Note12, "PENSION AND OTHER POSTRETIREMENT BENEFITS," to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional detail.
At December31, 2010, of the approximately 4,200 employees affected by this plan, substantially all terminations were complete.
We do not include restructuring charges in our operating segment results. The pre-tax impact of allocating restructuring charges to the segment results would have been as follows: In millions Year ended December31, 2009 Engine $ 47 Components 35 Power Generation 12 Distribution 5 Total restructuring and other charges $ 99 44 Table of Contents The following table summarizes the balance of accrued restructuring charges by expense type and the changes in the accrued amounts for the applicable periods. The restructuring related accruals were recorded in "Other accrued expenses" in our Consolidated Balance Sheets .
In millions Severance Costs Exit Activities Other Total 2009 Restructuring charges $ 81 $ 7 $ 2 $ 90 Cash payments for 2009 actions (70 ) (1 )  (71 ) Non cash items  (5 ) (2 ) (7 ) Changes in estimates (2 )   (2 ) Translation 1   1 Balance at December31, 2009 $ 10 $ 1 $  $ 11 Cash payments for 2009 actions (7 )   (7 ) Changes in estimates (3 ) (1 )  (4 ) Balance at December31, 2010 $  $  $  $  OPERATING SEGMENT RESULTS Our reportable operating segments consist of the following: Engine, Components, Power Generation and Distribution. This reporting structure is organized according to the products and markets each segment serves and allows management to focus its efforts on providing enhanced service to a wide range of customers. The Engine segment produces engines and parts for sale to customers in on-highway and various industrial markets. Our engines are used in trucks of all sizes, buses and recreational vehicles, as well as in various industrial applications, including construction, mining, agriculture, marine, oil and gas, rail and military equipment. The Components segment sells filtration products, exhaust aftertreatment systems, turbochargers and fuel systems. The Power Generation segment is an integrated provider of power systems which sells engines, generator sets and alternators. The Distribution segment includes wholly-owned and partially-owned distributorships engaged in wholesaling engines, generator sets and service parts, as well as performing service and repair activities on our products and maintaining relationships with various OEMsthroughout the world.
We use segment EBIT (defined as earnings before interest expense, taxes and noncontrolling interests) as a primary basis for the chief operating decision-maker to evaluate the performance of each of our operating segments. Segment amounts exclude certain expenses not specifically identifiable to segments.
The accounting policies of our operating segments are the same as those applied in our Consolidated Financial Statements . We prepared the financial results of our operating segments on a basis that is consistent with the manner in which we internally disaggregate financial information to assist in making internal operating decisions. We have allocated certain common costs and expenses, primarily corporate functions, among segments differently than we would for stand-alone financial information prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP). These include certain costs and expenses of shared services, such as information technology, human resources, legal and finance. We also do not allocate debt-related items, actuarial gains or losses, prior service costs or credits, changes in cash surrender value of corporate owned life insurance, restructuring and other charges, flood damage gains or losses, or income taxes to individual segments. In 2011 non-segment items included the gain on disposition of certain assets and liabilities of our exhaust business and our light-duty filtration business while 2010 included a Brazil revenue tax recovery. These gains were not allocated to the businesses as they were not considered in our evaluation of operating results for the year. Segment EBIT may not be consistent with measures used by other companies.
45 Table of Contents Following is a discussion of operating results for each of our business segments.
Engine Segment Results Financial data for the Engine segment was as follows: Favorable/(Unfavorable) Years ended December31, 2011 vs. 2010 2010 vs. 2009 In millions 2011 2010 2009 Amount Percent Amount Percent External sales $ 9,649 $ 6,594 $ 5,582 $ 3,055 46 % $ 1,012 18 % Intersegment sales 1,658 1,294 823 364 28 % 471 57 % Total sales 11,307 7,888 6,405 3,419 43 % 1,483 23 % Depreciation and amortization 181 171 185 (10 ) (6 )% 14 8 % Research, development and engineering expenses 397 263 241 (134 ) (51 )% (22 ) (9 )% Equity, royalty and interest income from investees 166 161 54 5 3 % 107 NM Interest income 18 12 3 6 50 % 9 NM Segment EBIT 1,384 809 252 575 71 % 557 NM Percentage Points Percentage Points Segment EBIT as a percentage of total sales 12.2 % 10.3 % 3.9 % 1.9 6.4 Engine segment sales by market were as follows: Favorable/(Unfavorable) Years ended December31, 2011 vs. 2010 2010 vs. 2009 In millions 2011 2010 2009 Amount Percent Amount Percent Heavy-duty truck $ 2,791 $ 1,503 $ 1,996 $ 1,288 86 % $ (493 ) (25 )% Medium-duty truck and bus 2,320 1,435 1,232 885 62 % 203 16 % Light-duty automotive and RV 1,176 1,022 688 154 15 % 334 49 % Total on-highway 6,287 3,960 3,916 2,327 59 % 44 1 % Industrial 3,850 2,889 1,821 961 33 % 1,068 59 % Stationary power 1,170 1,039 668 131 13 % 371 56 % Total sales $ 11,307 $ 7,888 $ 6,405 $ 3,419 43 % $ 1,483 23 % Unit shipments by engine classification (including unit shipments to Power Generation) were as follows: Favorable/(Unfavorable) Years ended December31, 2011 vs. 2010 2010 vs. 2009 2011 2010 2009 Amount Percent Amount Percent Mid-range 509,400 368,900 269,200 140,500 38 % 99,700 37 % Heavy-duty 116,300 61,200 85,900 55,100 90 % (24,700 ) (29 )% High-horsepower 21,600 18,500 13,400 3,100 17 % 5,100 38 % Total unit shipments 647,300 448,600 368,500 198,700 44 % 80,100 22 % 46 Table of Contents 2011 vs. 2010 Sales Engine segment sales increased in all businesses versus 2010, as demand improved in most markets including a significant rebound in North American on-highway markets, improvements in international construction markets, increased demand in global mining markets and significant increases in oil and gas markets. The following are the primary drivers by market:  Heavy-duty truck engine sales increased due to recovery in North American on-highway markets as OEM customers replace their aging fleets and the depletion of transition engine inventory purchased in 2009 in advance of the EPA's 2010 emission standard changes.
Industrial market sales increased primarily due to a 26percent improvement in international construction engine shipments driven by the economic recovery and infrastructure improvements in certain emerging markets, increased demand in advance of off-highway emission regulations in the U.S. and Europe, a 46percent increase in units sold in the global mining engine markets due to increased coal and commodity demands and more than double the number of oil and gas engine shipments in North America.
Medium-duty truck and bus sales increased primarily due to the recovery in North American on-highway markets, the depletion of transition engine inventory purchased in 2009 in advance of the EPA's 2010 emissions change and higher demand in the Brazilian truck engine market driven by a growing economy.
Total on-highway-related sales for 2011 were 56percent of total engine segment sales, compared to 50percent in 2010.
Segment EBIT Engine segment EBIT increased significantly versus 2010, primarily due to higher gross margin, partially offset by increased selling, general and administrative expenses and research, development and engineering expenses. Changes in Engine segment EBIT and EBIT as a percentage of sales were as follows: Year ended December31, 2011 vs.
2010 Favorable/(Unfavorable) Change In millions Amount Percent Percentage point change as a percent of sales Gross margin $ 864 55 % 1.7 Selling, general and administrative expenses (142 ) (22 )% 1.2 Research, development and engineering expenses (134 ) (51 )% (0.2 ) Equity, royalty and interest income from investees 5 3 % (0.5 ) The increase in gross margin versus 2010, was primarily due to higher volumes, improved price realization and favorable mix, partially offset by higher commodity costs and higher base warranty costs due to increased volumes and increasing mix of EPA 2010 products. Although our warranty costs increased, our warranty cost as a percentage of sales decreased as actual accrual rates for engines sold this year were generally lower than rates charged in prior years as our warranty costs for EPA 2010 engines have been lower than expected. The increases in selling, general and administrative expenses and research, development and engineering expenses were primarily due to new product development spending and increased headcount to support our strategic growth initiatives. The increase in equity, royalty and interest income from investees was primarily due to strong demand for power generation and mining products in China with CCEC and strong export sales to Russia and Brazil in the midrange on-highway market with Beijing Foton Cummins EngineCo.,Ltd., which was partially offset by lower sales at DCEC due to weaker demand in the on-highway heavy-duty and medium-duty truck market in China.
47 Table of Contents 2010 vs. 2009 Sales Engine segment sales increased versus 2009, due to improved sales in most markets, especially the industrial, stationary power, light-duty automotive and medium-duty truck markets, which were partially offset by decreases in the North American heavy-duty truck market. The following are the primary drivers by market.
Industrial market sales increased primarily due to a 154percent improvement in international construction engine shipments driven by the economic recovery and infrastructure investment in emerging markets and a 123percent improvement in units sold in the international mining markets due to increased coal and commodity demands.
Stationary power engine sales increased primarily due to higher demand in power generation markets, particularly for high-horse power engines.
Light-duty automotive sales increased significantly due to a 77percent improvement in units sold to Chrysler as the result of shut-downs in 2009 as part of its reorganization efforts.
Medium-duty truck engine sales increased due to a 78percent increase in international units sold, primarily due to higher demand in the Brazilian truck market driven by a growing economy and government incentives.
These increases were partially offset by a decline in heavy-duty truck engine sales. Consistent with prior emission standards changes, North American (includes the U.S and Canada and excludes Mexico) unit sales declined 61percent due to higher engine purchases by OEMsin late 2009, ahead of the Environmental Protection Agency's (EPA)'s 2010 emission standards change, as part of the OEM's transition plan.
Total on-highway-related sales for 2010 were 50percent of total engine segment sales, compared to 61percent in 2009.
Segment EBIT Engine segment EBIT increased significantly versus 2009, primarily due to higher gross margin and equity, royalty and interest income from investees which were partially offset by increased selling, general and administrative expenses and research, development and engineering expenses. Changes in Engine segment EBIT and EBIT as a percentage of sales were as follows: Year ended December31, 2010 vs. 2009 Favorable/(Unfavorable) Change In millions Amount Percent Percentage point change as a percent of sales Gross margin $ 539 53 % 3.8 Selling, general and administrative expenses (88 ) (16 )% 0.5 Research, development and engineering expenses (22 ) (9 )% 0.5 Equity, royalty and interest income from investees 107 NM 1.2 The increase in gross margin versus 2009, was primarily due to higher volumes, improved price realization, decreased warranty expense and cost structure improvements from actions taken in late 2008 and early 2009, partially offset by an unfavorable mix. The increase in selling, general and administrative expenses was primarily due to higher variable compensation which resulted from the segment's strong performance. Equity, royalty and interest income from investees increased in most 48 Table of Contents unconsolidated joint ventures. The increase was led by higher demand in emerging markets, especially at DCEC and Komatsu-Cummins Engine Company (KCEC).
Components Segment Results Financial data for the Components segment was as follows: Favorable/(Unfavorable) Years ended December31, 2011 vs. 2010 2010 vs. 2009 In millions 2011 2010 2009 Amount Percent Amount Percent External sales $ 2,886 $ 2,171 $ 1,562 $ 715 33 % $ 609 39 % Intersegment sales 1,177 875 793 302 35 % 82 10 % Total sales 4,063 3,046 2,355 1,017 33 % 691 29 % Depreciation and amortization 73 79 73 6 8 % (6 ) (8 )% Research, development and engineering expenses 175 114 88 (61 ) (54 )% (26 ) (30 )% Equity, royalty and interest income from investees 31 23 13 8 35 % 10 77 % Interest income 5 2 1 3 NM 1 100 % Segment EBIT 470 278 95 192 69 % 183 NM Percentage Points Percentage Points Segment EBIT as a percentage of total sales 11.6 % 9.1 % 4.0 % 2.5 5.1 Sales for our Components segment by business were as follows: Favorable/(Unfavorable) Years ended December31, 2011 vs. 2010 2010 vs. 2009 In millions 2011 2010 2009 Amount Percent Amount Percent Emission solutions $ 1,262 $ 750 $ 495 $ 512 68 % $ 255 52 % Turbo technologies 1,223 948 704 275 29 % 244 35 % Filtration 1,113 1,011 851 102 10 % 160 19 % Fuel systems 465 337 305 128 38 % 32 10 % Total sales $ 4,063 $ 3,046 $ 2,355 $ 1,017 33 % $ 691 29 % 2011 vs. 2010 Sales Components segment sales increased in all businesses versus 2010. The following are the primary regional drivers by business:  Emission solutions business sales increased due to the increased sales volume of North American EPA 2010 aftertreatment systems and increased demand for Euro V aftertreatment systems in Europe, which were partially offset by lower sales due to the sale of the exhaust business.
Turbo technologies business sales increased due to higher OEM demand in North America, Europe, India and Brazil and improved aftermarket demand.
Fuel systems business sales increased primarily due to improved demand in North American on-highway markets.
49 Table of Contents  Filtration business sales increased due to improved aftermarket demand, especially in Asia Pacific and Europe, higher OEM demand due to the recovery in North American on-highway markets and favorable foreign currency impacts which were partially offset by lower sales due to the disposition of certain assets and liabilities of our exhaust and light-duty filtration businesses.
Segment EBIT Components segment EBIT increased versus 2010, primarily due to the improved gross margin which was partially offset by increased research, development and engineering expenses and higher selling, general and administrative expenses. Changes in Components segment EBIT and EBIT as a percentage of sales were as follows: Year ended December31, 2011 vs. 2010 Favorable/(Unfavorable) Change In millions Amount Percent Percentage point change as a percent of sales Gross margin $ 295 51 % 2.5 Selling, general and administrative expenses (44 ) (19 )% 0.8 Research, development and engineering expenses (61 ) (54 )% (0.6 ) Equity, royalty and interest income from investees 8 35 %  The increase in gross margin was primarily due to higher volumes for all businesses and increased product content on 2010 North American truck engines. The increases in research, development and engineering expenses and selling, general and administrative expenses were primarily due to new product development spending and increased headcount to support our strategic growth initiatives. The increase in equity, royalty and interest income from investees was driven by improved joint venture income from both the filtration business in China and India and the fuel systems business.
In 2011, we sold certain assets and liabilities of our exhaust business and light-duty filtration business and recognized $68million and $53million, respectively, in pre-tax gain on the sales. The gains have been excluded from Components results as they were not considered in our evaluation of Components operating results for the year ended 2011. See Note2, "DIVESTITURES AND ACQUISITIONS," to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
2010 vs. 2009 Sales Components segment sales increased in all businesses versus 2009. The following are the primary regional drivers by business.
Emission solutions business sales increased due to higher technology content and increased sales of North American EPA 2010 aftertreatment systems and higher European demand for aftertreatment systems for the first fit market, which were partially offset by decreased sales of our EPA 2007 aftertreatment systems.
Turbo technologies business sales increased due to improved original equipment demand in Europe and China and significant global aftermarket recovery.
Filtration business sales increased in all regions primarily due to global aftermarket recovery and improved global original equipment sales.
50 Table of Contents  Fuel systems business sales increased primarily due to improved OEM first fit sales in China and the aftermarket recovery in North America, which was partially offset by decreased first fit sales in North America.
Segment EBIT Components segment EBIT almost tripled versus 2009, primarily due to the improved gross margin which was partially offset by increased selling, general and administrative expenses and research, development and engineering expenses. Changes in Components segment EBIT and EBIT as a percentage of sales were as follows: Year ended December31, 2010 vs. 2009 Favorable/(Unfavorable) Change In millions Amount Percent Percentage point change as a percent of sales Gross margin $ 233 67 % 4.3 Selling, general and administrative expenses (44 ) (24 )% 0.3 Research, development and engineering expenses (26 ) (30 )%  Equity, royalty and interest income from investees 10 77 % 0.2 The increase in gross margin was due to higher volumes for all businesses, increased aftertreatment content on 2010 North American truck engines and efficiencies gained from restructuring actions partially offset by higher commodity costs and warranty expenses. The increase in selling, general and administrative expenses and research, development and engineering expenses were primarily due to increased variable compensation which resulted from the segment's strong performance; other people costs and new product development program spending. The increase in equity, royalty and interest income from investees was driven by improved joint venture income from the filtration business in China and India.
Power Generation Segment Results Financial data for the Power Generation segment was as follows: Favorable/(Unfavorable) Years ended December31, 2011 vs. 2010 2010 vs. 2009 In millions 2011 2010 2009 Amount Percent Amount Percent External sales $ 2,492 $ 2,150 $ 1,879 $ 342 16 % $ 271 14 % Intersegment sales 1,006 769 538 237 31 % 231 43 % Total sales 3,498 2,919 2,417 579 20 % 502 21 % Depreciation and amortization 42 41 49 (1 ) (2 )% 8 16 % Research, development and engineering expenses 54 36 33 (18 ) (50 )% (3 ) (9 )% Equity, royalty and interest income from investees 47 35 22 12 34 % 13 59 % Interest income 8 5 3 3 60 % 2 67 % Segment EBIT 373 299 167 74 25 % 132 79 % Percentage Points Percentage Points Segment EBIT as a percentage of total sales 10.7 % 10.2 % 6.9 % 0.5 3.3 51 Table of Contents Sales for our Power Generation segment by business were as follows: Favorable/(Unfavorable) Years ended December31, 2011 vs. 2010 2010 vs. 2009 In millions 2011 2010 2009 Amount Percent Amount Percent Commercial products $ 2,230 $ 1,831 $ 1,456 $ 399 22 % $ 375 26 % Generator technologies 673 549 512 124 23 % 37 7 % Commercial projects 243 222 177 21 9 % 45 25 % Consumer 200 186 140 14 8 % 46 33 % Power electronics 152 131 132 21 16 % (1 ) (1 )% Total sales $ 3,498 $ 2,919 $ 2,417 $ 579 20 % $ 502 21 % 2011 vs. 2010 Sales Power Generation segment sales increased in all businesses, versus 2010, primarily due to increased demand in the commercial products and generator technologies businesses. The following are the primary drivers by business:  Commercial products business sales increased due to stronger demand in most regions, particularly in Asia, North America, the U.K., the Middle East and Latin America, improved price realization and favorable foreign currency impacts.
Generator technologies sales increased due to improved price realization, stronger demand in most regions, especially Western Europe, Asia, and the U.K. and favorable foreign currency impacts.
Segment EBIT Power Generation segment EBIT increased versus 2010, primarily due to higher gross margins, partially offset by higher selling, general and administrative expenses and research, development and engineering expenses. Changes in Power Generation segment EBIT and EBIT as a percentage of sales were as follows: Year ended December31, 2011 vs. 2010 Favorable/(Unfavorable) Change In millions Amount Percent Percentage point change as a percent of sales Gross margin $ 135 25 % 0.7 Selling, general and administrative expenses (56 ) (22 )% (0.2 ) Research, development and engineering expenses (18 ) (50 )% (0.3 ) Equity, royalty and interest income from investees 12 34 % 0.1 The increase in gross margin was due to higher volumes and improved price realization, which was partially offset by increased commodity and material costs. The increases in selling, general and administrative expenses and research, development and engineering expenses were primarily due to increased headcount to support our strategic growth initiatives. Equity, royalty and interest income from investees increased at CCEC primarily as a result of improved power generation markets in China.
52 Table of Contents 2010 vs. 2009 Sales Power Generation segment sales improved in most businesses, versus 2009, primarily due to increased demand. The following are the primary drivers by business.
Commercial products sales increased due to higher demand in the U.K., Latin America, India and East Asia, which was partially offset by decreased demand in North America.
Consumer sales increased primarily due to signs of recovery in the North American RV market.
Commercial projects sales increased due to higher demand in the South Pacific and Africa, partially offset by reduced demand in the Middle East.
Generator technologies sales increased due to higher demand in East Asia, the U.K. and India, partially offset by a decline in demand in North America, East Europe and the Middle East.
Segment EBIT Power Generation segment EBIT increased versus 2009, primarily due to higher gross margins and equity, royalty and interest income from investees which were partially offset by increased selling general and administrative expenses. Changes in Power Generation segment EBIT and EBIT as a percentage of sales were as follows: Year ended December31, 2010 vs. 2009 Favorable/(Unfavorable) Change In millions Amount Percent Percentage point change as a percent of sales Gross margin $ 151 38 % 2.4 Selling, general and administrative expenses (31 ) (14 )% 0.5 Research, development and engineering expenses (3 ) (9 )% 0.2 Equity, royalty and interest income from investees 13 59 % 0.3 The increase in gross margin was due to higher volumes, partially offset by increased warranty expenses and increased variable compensation. The increase in selling general and administrative expenses was primarily due to higher variable compensation expense which resulted from the strong improvement over 2009. Equity, royalty and interest income from investees increased due to higher demand, especially at Cummins Olayan Energy and CCEC.
53 Table of Contents Distribution Segment Results Financial data for the Distribution segment was as follows: Favorable/(Unfavorable) Years ended December31, 2011 vs. 2010 2010 vs. 2009 In millions 2011 2010 2009 Amount Percent Amount Percent External sales $ 3,021 $ 2,311 $ 1,777 $ 710 31 % $ 534 30 % Intersegment sales 23 13 7 10 77 % 6 86 % Total sales 3,044 2,324 1,784 720 31 % 540 30 % Depreciation and amortization 25 25 17   (8 ) (47 )% Equity, royalty and interest income from investees 172 132 125 40 30 % 7 6 % Interest income 3 2 1 1 50 % 1 100 % Segment EBIT 386 297 235 89 30 % 62 26 % Percentage Points Percentage Points Segment EBIT as a percentage of total sales 12.7 % 12.8 % 13.2 % (0.1 ) (0.4 ) Sales for our Distribution segment by region were as follows: Favorable/(Unfavorable) Years ended December31, 2011 vs. 2010 2010 vs. 2009 In millions 2011 2010 2009 Amount Percent Amount Percent Asia Pacific $ 1,170 $ 904 $ 755 $ 266 29 % $ 149 20 % Europe and Middle East 808 683 598 125 18 % 85 14 % North and Central America 797 539 278 258 48 % 261 94 % Africa 151 111 94 40 36 % 17 18 % South America 118 87 59 31 36 % 28 47 % Total sales $ 3,044 $ 2,324 $ 1,784 $ 720 31 % $ 540 30 % Sales for our Distribution segment by product were as follows: Favorable/(Unfavorable) Years ended December31, 2011 vs. 2010 2010 vs. 2009 In millions 2011 2010 2009 Amount Percent Amount Percent Parts and filtration $ 1,085 $ 882 $ 665 $ 203 23 % $ 217 33 % Power generation 722 516 457 206 40 % 59 13 % Engines 703 466 324 237 51 % 142 44 % Service 534 460 338 74 16 % 122 36 % Total sales $ 3,044 $ 2,324 $ 1,784 $ 720 31 % $ 540 30 % 54 Table of Contents 2011 vs. 2010 Sales Distribution segment sales increased for all product lines versus 2010. The following were the primary drivers by line of business:  Engine product sales increased primarily due to growth in the oil and gas markets in North and Central America, improved demand in certain markets in Europe, partially driven by pre-buy activity ahead of the 2012 emissions change, and higher demand in Africa.
Power generation product sales increased primarily due to improved project-based business across North and Central America, South Pacific, Middle East and Europe, increased demand from Japan's earthquake recovery and the acquisition of a previously independent distributor in 2010.
Parts and filtration product sales increased primarily due to higher demand in North and Central America, the acquisition of a previously independent distributor in 2010, higher demand from mining customers in the South Pacific, improved sales in East Asia as the result of overall market recovery and increasing engine populations and higher demand driven by economic recovery in Europe.
Foreign currency fluctuations also favorably impacted sales.
Segment EBIT Distribution segment EBIT increased versus 2010, primarily due to improved gross margin and equity, royalty and interest income from investees, which was partially offset by increased selling, general and administrative expenses. Segment EBIT was also unfavorably impacted by the absence of a one-time gain of $12million from the acquisition of Cummins Western Canada in 2010. Changes in Distribution segment EBIT and EBIT as a percentage of sales were as follows: Year ended December31, 2011 vs. 2010 Favorable/(Unfavorable) Change In millions Amount Percent Percentage point change as a percent of sales Gross margin $ 161 31 % 0.1 Selling, general and administrative expenses (108 ) (30 )% 0.1 Equity, royalty and interest income from investees 40 30 %  The increase in gross margin versus 2010, was primarily due to higher volumes in most products, favorable foreign currency impacts and the acquisition of a previously independent distributor in 2010. The increase in selling, general and administrative expenses was mainly due to higher headcount to support our strategic growth initiatives and unfavorable foreign currency impacts. The increase in equity, royalty and interest income from investees was primarily due to higher income from North American distributors, especially in the oil and gas markets, and increased parts sales.
55 Table of Contents 2010 vs. 2009 Excluding Acquisitions Selected financial information for our Distribution segment excluding the impact of acquisitions was as follows: Years ended December31, Favorable/ (Unfavorable) In millions 2010 2009 Amount Percent Excluding acquisitions (1) Sales $ 2,038 $ 1,784 $ 254 14 % EBIT 267 (2) 235 32 14 % (1) The acquisitions represent the purchase of the majority interest in Cummins Western Canada (CWC), an equity investee, in the first quarter of 2010 and the purchase of a majority interest in a previously independent North American distributorship, as explained in Note2, "DIVESTITURES AND ACQUISITIONS," to the Consolidated Financial Statements . The acquisition of CWC and the majority interest in the distributorship increased sales by $286million and EBIT by $30million in 2010. The 2009 data does not exclude the acquisition which occurred in 2009.
(2) This amount includes $13million of equity earnings which would have been our share of CWC's income for 2010 if we had not consolidated them.
Sales Distribution segment sales, excluding the acquisitions, increased versus 2009, due to increased parts and service revenues, increased engine sales driven by sales in Europe and the South Pacific and favorable foreign currency impacts in most regions.
Segment EBIT Distribution segment EBIT increased versus 2009, primarily due to increased gross margin and a one-time gain from an acquisition that occurred in the first quarter, partially offset by increased selling, general and administrative expenses. Changes in Distribution segment EBIT and EBIT as a percentage of sales were as follows: Year ended December31, 2010 vs. 2009 Favorable/(Unfavorable) Change In millions Amount Percent Percentage point change as a percent of sales Including acquisitions Gross margin $ 129 34 % 0.5 Selling, general and administrative expenses (85 ) (31 )%  Other (expense) income 12 (1) NM 0.4 Excluding acquisitions Gross margin 66 17 % 0.5 Selling, general and administrative expenses (59 ) (21 )% (0.9 ) (1) The primary increase in other income represents the purchase of the majority interest in an equity investee in the first quarter of 2010, which resulted in a gain of $12million as explained in Note2, "DIVESTITURES AND ACQUISITIONS," to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
56 Table of Contents Excluding acquisitions, the increase in gross margin versus 2009, was primarily due to higher volumes and favorable foreign currency impacts. Excluding effects from acquisitions, the increase in selling, general and administrative expenses was mainly due to higher salaries and unfavorable foreign currency impacts.
Reconciliation of Segment EBIT to Income Before Income Taxes The table below reconciles the segment information to the corresponding amounts in the Consolidated Statements of Income.
Years ended December31, In millions 2011 2010 2009 Total segment EBIT $ 2,613 $ 1,683 $ 749 Non-segment EBIT(1) 102 (26 ) (74 ) Total EBIT $ 2,715 $ 1,657 $ 675 Less: Interest expense 44 40 35 Income before income taxes $ 2,671 $ 1,617 $ 640 (1) Includes intersegment sales and profit in inventory eliminations and unallocated corporate expenses. The year ended December31, 2011, includes a $68million gain ($37million after-tax) related to the sale of certain assets and liabilities of our exhaust business and a $53million gain ($33million after-tax) recorded for the sale of certain assets and liabilities of our light-duty filtration business, both from the Components segment, and a $38million gain ($24million after-tax) related to flood damage recoveries from the insurance settlement regarding a June 2008 flood in Southern Indiana. The gains have been excluded from segment results as they were not considered in our evaluation of operating results for the year ended December31, 2011. For the year ended December31, 2010, unallocated corporate expenses include $32million in Brazil tax recoveries ($21million after-tax) and $2million in flood damage expenses. The Brazil tax recovery has been excluded from segment results as it was not considered in our evaluation of operating results for the year ended December31, 2010. For the year ended December31, 2009, unallocated corporate expenses included $99million in restructuring and other charges and a gain of $12million related to flood damage recoveries.
LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Management's Assessment of Liquidity Our financial condition and liquidity continue to strengthen. Our solid balance sheet and credit ratings enable us to have ready access to credit.
We assess our liquidity in terms of our ability to generate adequate cash to fund our operating, investing and financing activities. We generate significant ongoing cash flow, which has been used, in part, to fund repurchases of common stock, capital expenditures and pay dividends on our common stock. Our cash flow from operations in 2011 more than doubled the 2010 cash flow from operations. Cash provided by operations is our principal source of liquidity. As of December31, 2011, other sources of liquidity included:  cash and cash equivalents of $1.5 billion, of which approximately 32percent was located in the U.S. and 59percent was located primarily in the U.K., China, Brazil and India, 57 Table of Contents  marketable securities of $277 million, which were located primarily in India and Brazil and the majority of which could be liquidated into cash within a few days,  revolving credit facility with $1.2 billion available, net of outstanding letters of credit,  international and other domestic credit facilities with $300 million available and  accounts receivable sales program with $209 million available, based on eligible receivables.
We believe our liquidity provides us with the financial flexibility needed to fund working capital, capital expenditures, projected pension obligations, dividend payments, common stock repurchases and debt service obligations.
Our revolving credit agreement provides us with a $1.24 billion unsecured revolving credit facility, the proceeds of which are to be used for our general corporate purposes. See Note10, "DEBT" to our Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. The credit agreement includes two financial covenants: a leverage ratio and an interest coverage ratio. The required leverage ratio, which measures the sum of total debt plus securitization financing to consolidated earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) for the four fiscal quarters may not exceed 3.0 to 1. At December31, 2011, our leverage ratio was 0.26 to 1. The required interest coverage ratio, which is consolidated EBITDA minus capital expenditures to consolidated interest expense, in each case for the prior four quarters, may not be less than 1.50 to 1. At December31, 2011, our interest coverage ratio was 53.62 to 1.
A significant portion of our cash flows is generated outside the U.S. As of December31, 2011, the total of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities held by foreign subsidiaries was $1.3 billion, the vast majority of which was located in the U.K., China, India, Brazil and Singapore. The geographic location of our cash and marketable securities aligns well with our business growth strategy. We manage our worldwide cash requirements considering available funds among the many subsidiaries through which we conduct our business and the cost effectiveness with which those funds can be accessed. As a result, we do not anticipate any local liquidity restrictions to preclude us from funding our expansion or operating needs with local resources. If the foreign cash balances were repatriated to the U.S. we could be required to accrue and pay U.S. taxes for earnings primarily from our U.K. domiciled subsidiaries, as we have asserted that these earnings are permanently reinvested outside of the U.S. At present we do not foresee an immediate need to repatriate any earnings from these subsidiaries in the near future. However, we do anticipate repatriating available cash from foreign subsidiaries to help fund U.S. cash needs as they arise, and we have transferred and will continue to transfer cash from these subsidiaries to the U.S. and to other international subsidiaries when it is cost effective to do so. Earnings from our China operations will be considered permanently reinvested beginning in 2012, while earnings generated prior to 2012, for which U.S. deferred tax liabilities have already been recorded, will be repatriated in future years.
We continuously monitor our pension assets and believe that we have limited exposure to the European debt crisis. No sovereign debt instruments of crisis countries are held in the trusts, while any equities are held with large well-diversified multinational firms or are de minimis amounts in large index funds. In addition, we rebalanced our asset portfolios in the U.S. and the U.K. in 2010 with equities representing a smaller segment of the total portfolios and we continue to rebalance as necessary to maintain our target range. Our pension plans have not experienced any significant impact on liquidity or counterparty exposure due to the volatility in the credit markets.
The maturity schedule of our existing long-term debt does not require significant cash outflows in the intermediate term. Required annual principal payments range from $17 million to $97 million over each of the next five years.
58 Table of Contents Working Capital Summary We fund our working capital with cash from operations and short-term borrowings when necessary. Various assets and liabilities, including short-term debt, can fluctuate significantly from month to month depending on short-term liquidity needs. As a result, working capital is a prime focus of management attention.
Favorable/ (Unfavorable) 2011 vs. 2010 In millions 2011 2010 Amount Percent Cash and cash equivalents $ 1,484 $ 1,023 $ 461 45 % Marketable securities 277 339 (62 ) (18 )% Accounts and notes receivable 2,526 2,243 283 13 % Inventories 2,141 1,977 164 8 % Other current assets 663 707 (44 ) (6 )% Current assets 7,091 6,289 802 13 % Accounts and loans payable 1,574 1,444 130 9 % Current portion of accrued product warranty 422 421 1  Accrued compensation, benefits and retirement costs 511 468 43 9 % Taxes payable (including taxes on income) 282 202 80 40 % Other accrued expenses 868 725 143 20 % Current liabilities 3,657 3,260 397 12 % Working capital $ 3,434 $ 3,029 Current ratio 1.94 1.93 Days' sales in receivables 48 59 Inventory turnover 6.3 5.8 Current assets increased 13percent primarily due to an increase in cash and cash equivalents, an increase in accounts receivable due to higher sales and an increase in inventory levels to meet anticipated demand. Despite the increases in accounts receivable and inventories, we were able to lower days' sales in receivables in a challenging environment by 11days through improved collections and we increased our inventory turns by 0.5 through higher demand.
Current liabilities increased 12percent primarily due to higher accounts and loans payable, increased taxes payable due to higher income and higher other accrued expenses, which was the result of increased purchasing requirements to support higher sales volume in the businesses.
59 Table of Contents Cash Flows Cash and cash equivalents increased $461 million during the year ended December31, 2011, compared to a $93 million increase in cash and cash equivalents during the comparable period in 2010. The change in cash and cash equivalents was as follows: Operating Activities Change Years ended December31, 2011 vs. 2010 2010 vs. 2009 In millions 2011 2010 2009 Consolidated net income $ 1,946 $ 1,140 $ 484 $ 806 $ 656 Restructuring and other charges, net of cash payments   16  (16 ) Depreciation and amortization 325 320 326 5 (6 ) Gain on sale of businesses (121 )   (121 )  Gain on fair value adjustment for consolidated investee  (12 )  12 (12 ) Deferred income taxes 85 56 5 29 51 Equity in income of investees, net of dividends (23 ) (147 ) 23 124 (170 ) Pension contributions in excess of expense (131 ) (151 ) (36 ) 20 (115 ) Other post-retirement benefits payments in excess of expense (31 ) (35 ) (24 ) 4 (11 ) Stock-based compensation expense 42 22 20 20 2 Excess tax (benefits) deficiencies on stock-based awards (5 ) (10 ) 1 5 (11 ) Translation and hedging activities 4 13 41 (9 ) (28 ) Changes in: Accounts and notes receivable (350 ) (195 ) (181 ) (155 ) (14 ) Inventories (225 ) (574 ) 482 349 (1,056 ) Other current assets (21 ) (54 ) 33 33 (87 ) Accounts payable 208 345 (75 ) (137 ) 420 Accrued expenses 234 233 (132 ) 1 365 Changes in other liabilities and deferred revenue 139 133 155 6 (22 ) Other, net (3 ) (78 ) (1 ) 75 (77 ) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 2,073 $ 1,006 $ 1,137 $ 1,067 $ (131 ) 2011 vs. 2010 Net cash provided by operating activities increased versus 2010, primarily due to significantly higher consolidated net income, excluding the gain on the sale of certain assets and liabilities of our exhaust business and our light-duty filtration business, as a result of higher sales volumes, higher dividends from equity investees and favorable working capital fluctuations. During 2011, the net increase in working capital resulted in a cash outflow of $154 million compared to a cash outflow of $245 million in 2010. This decrease of $91 million was primarily driven by a smaller increase in inventory in 2011 as we significantly increased inventory levels in 2010 to meet anticipated post-recession demand.
Pensions The funded status of our pension plans is dependent upon a variety of variables and assumptions including return on invested assets, market interest rates and levels of voluntary contributions to the 60 Table of Contents plans. In the second half of 2011, financial markets in Europe declined significantly, reversing the prior quarters' gains in our U.K. trust investments; while the U.S. trust's liability driven fixed income investments were able to maintain the return trends from the first half of the year. As a result, for 2011 the return for our U.S. plan was 13percent while our U.K. plan return was approximately six percent. Our U.K. pension plan remains in an over funded position. Approximately 94percent of our pension plan assets are invested in highly liquid investments such as equity and fixed income securities. The remaining six percent of our plan assets are invested in less liquid, but market valued investments, including real estate and private equity. We made $199 million of pension contributions in 2011 (including voluntary contributions of $108 million). We anticipate making total contributions of $130 million to our defined benefit pension plans in 2012. Expected contributions to our defined benefit pension plans in 2012 will meet or exceed the current funding requirements.
2010 vs. 2009 Net cash provided by operating activities decreased versus 2009, primarily due to significantly higher inventory levels to meet anticipated demand, increased equity in income of investees net of dividends and higher pension contributions made in the year. This was partially offset by significantly higher consolidated net income and increases in accounts payable and accrued expenses as the result of increased purchasing to support higher sales volumes.
Investing Activities Change Years ended December31, 2011 vs. 2010 2010 vs. 2009 In millions 2011 2010 2009 Capital expenditures $ (622 ) $ (364 ) $ (310 ) $ (258 ) $ (54 ) Investments in internal use software (60 ) (43 ) (35 ) (17 ) (8 ) Proceeds from disposals of property, plant and equipment 8 55 10 (47 ) 45 Investments in and advances to equity investees (81 ) (2 ) (3 ) (79 ) 1 Proceeds from sale of businesses, net of cash sold 199   199  Acquisition of businesses, net of cash acquired  (104 ) (2 ) 104 (102 ) Investments in marketable securities-acquisitions (729 ) (823 ) (431 ) 94 (392 ) Investments in marketable securities-liquidations 750 690 335 60 355 Purchases of other investments  (62 ) (62 ) 62  Cash flows from derivatives not designated as hedges (18 ) 2 (18 ) (20 ) 20 Other, net 1  7 1 (7 ) Net cash used in investing activities $ (552 ) $ (651 ) $ (509 ) $ 99 $ (142 ) 2011 vs. 2010 Net cash used in investing activities decreased versus 2010, primarily due to proceeds received from the sale of certain assets and liabilities of our exhaust business and our light-duty filtration business (See Note2, "DIVESTITURES AND ACQUISITIONS" to our Consolidated Financial Statements ), decreased acquisitions and increased liquidations of marketable securities, the acquisition of CWC in 2010 and decreased purchases of other investments. These drivers were partially offset by increased capital expenditures, additional investments in and advances to equity investees and lower proceeds from dispositions of property, plant and equipment.
Capital expenditures were $622 million compared to $364 million in the comparable period in 2010. We continue to invest in the development of new products and we plan to spend approximately 61 Table of Contents $800 million to $850 million in 2012 as we continue with product launches and facility improvements and prepare for future emission standards. Approximately 50percent of our capital expenditures will be invested outside of the U.S. in 2012.
2010 vs. 2009 Net cash used in investing activities increased versus 2009, primarily due to acquisitions (See Note2, "DIVESTITURES AND ACQUISITIONS" to our Consolidated Financial Statements ), higher capital expenditures and increased investments in marketable securities, which were partially offset by higher proceeds from the disposal of property, plant and equipment. Capital expenditures were $364 million compared to $310 million in 2009.
Financing Activities Change Years ended December31, 2011 vs. 2010 2010 vs. 2009 In millions 2011 2010 2009 Proceeds from borrowings $ 127 $ 214 $ 76 $ (87 ) $ 138 Payments on borrowings and capital lease obligations (237 ) (143 ) (97 ) (94 ) (46 ) Net borrowings (payments) under short-term credit agreements 6 9 (2 ) (3 ) 11 Distributions to noncontrolling interests (56 ) (28 ) (34 ) (28 ) 6 Dividend payments on common stock (255 ) (172 ) (141 ) (83 ) (31 ) Proceeds from sale of common stock held by employee benefit trust  58 72 (58 ) (14 ) Repurchases of common stock (629 ) (241 ) (20 ) (388 ) (221 ) Excess tax benefits (deficiencies) on stock-based awards 5 10 (1 ) (5 ) 11 Other, net 14 26 6 (12 ) 20 Net cash used in financing activities $ (1,025 ) $ (267 ) $ (141 ) $ (758 ) $ (126 ) 2011 vs. 2010 Net cash used in financing activities increased versus 2010, primarily due to significantly higher repurchases of common stock, increased payments on borrowings and capital lease obligations, decreased proceeds from borrowings and higher dividend payments.
Our total debt was $783 million as of December31, 2011, compared with $843 million as of December31, 2010. Total debt as a percent of our total capital, including total long-term debt, was 11.8percent at December31, 2011, compared with 14.4percent at December31, 2010.
2010 vs. 2009 Net cash used in financing activities increased versus 2009, primarily due to increased repurchases of common stock, which was partially offset by higher proceeds from borrowings primarily related to the acquisition of CWC and borrowings in Brazil.
Our total debt was $843million as of December31, 2010, compared with $703million at December31, 2009. Total debt as a percent of our total capital, including total long-term debt, was 14.4percent at December31, 2010, compared to 14.9percent at December31, 2009. The increase in total debt was principally due to acquisitions and borrowings in Brazil which were subsequently invested in marketable securities.
62 Table of Contents Repurchase of Common Stock In December 2007, the Board of Directors authorized the acquisition of up to $500million of our common stock, which was completed in February 2011.
Repurchases under this plan by year were as follows: In millions (except per share amounts) Shares Purchased Average Cost Per Share Total Cost of Repurchases Remaining Authorized Capacity 2008 2.3 $ 55.49 $ 128 $ 372 2009 0.4 46.52 20 352 2010 3.5 68.57 241 111 2011 1.1 104.47 111  Total 7.3 $ 500 In February 2011, the Board of Directors approved a new share repurchase program and authorized the acquisition of up to $1billion of our common stock upon completion of the $500million program. In 2011, we made the following quarterly purchases under the repurchase programs as indicated: In millions (except per share amounts) For each quarter ended 2011 Shares Purchased Average Cost Per Share Total Cost of Repurchases Remaining Authorized Capacity December 2007, $500million repurchase program March27 1.1 $ 104.47 $ 111 $  February 2011, $1billion repurchase program March27 0.8 $ 99.14 $ 79 $ 921 June26 1.6 110.49 183 738 September25 1.9 89.55 173 565 December31 1.0 88.17 83 482 Subtotal 5.3 $ 97.26 $ 518 $ 482 Total 6.4 $ 98.46 $ 629 $ 482 Quarterly Dividends In July 2011, the Board of Directors approved a 52percent increase to our quarterly cash dividend on our common stock from $0.2625 per share to $0.40 per share. In July 2010, our Board of Directors approved a 50percent increase in our quarterly cash dividend on our common stock from $0.175 per share to $0.2625 per share. Cash dividends per share paid to common shareholders for the last three years were as follows: Quarterly Dividends 2011 2010 2009 First quarter $ 0.2625 $ 0.175 $ 0.175 Second quarter 0.2625 0.175 0.175 Third quarter 0.40 0.2625 0.175 Fourth quarter 0.40 0.2625 0.175 Total $ 1.325 $ 0.875 $ 0.70 Total dividends paid to common shareholders in 2011, 2010 and 2009 were $255million, $172million and $141million, respectively. Declaration and payment of dividends in the future 63 Table of Contents depends upon our income and liquidity position, among other factors, and is subject to declaration by our Board of Directors, who meet quarterly to consider our dividend payment. We expect to fund dividend payments with cash from operations.
Credit Ratings A number of our contractual obligations and financing agreements, such as our revolving credit facility, have restrictive covenants and/or pricing modifications that may be triggered in the event of downward revisions to our corporate credit rating. There were no downgrades of our credit ratings in 2011. In September 2011, Standard& Poor's Rating Services upgraded our rating to 'A' and changed our outlook to stable. In June 2011, Fitch Ratings upgraded our rating and changed our outlook to stable. In November 2011, Fitch Ratings affirmed our rating and revised our outlook to positive. In November 2011, Moody's Investors Service,Inc. raised our rating to Baa1 and changed our outlook to positive.
Credit ratings are not recommendations to buy, are subject to change and each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. In addition, we undertake no obligation to update disclosures concerning our credit ratings, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Our ratings and outlook from each of the credit rating agencies as of the date of filing are shown in the table below.
Credit Rating Agency Senior L-T Debt Rating Outlook Moody's Investors Service,Inc.
Baa1 Positive Standard& Poor's Rating Services A Stable Fitch Ratings A- Positive CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS AND OTHER COMMERCIAL COMMITMENTS A summary of payments due for our contractual obligations and commercial commitments, as of December31, 2011, is shown in the tables below: Contractual Cash Obligations 2012 2013 - 2014 2015 - 2016 After 2016 Total In millions Loans payable $ 28 $  $  $  $ 28 Long-term debt and capital lease obligations(1) 167 168 110 1,454 1,899 Operating leases 136 153 87 121 497 Capital expenditures 430 238 56  724 Purchase commitments for inventory 584 39   623 Other purchase commitments 227 41 1  269 Pension funding(2)  124 62  186 Other postretirement benefits 51 93 86 253 483 Total $ 1,623 $ 856 $ 402 $ 1,828 $ 4,709 (1) Includes principal payments and expected interest payments based on the terms of the obligations.
(2) We are contractually obligated in the U.K. to fund $62million per year from 2013 to 2015; however our expected total pension contributions for 2012 is approximately $130million.
The contractual obligations reported above exclude our unrecognized tax benefits of $86million as of December31, 2011. We are not able to reasonably estimate the period in which cash outflows relating to uncertain tax contingencies could occur. See Note4, "INCOME TAXES," to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further details.
64 Table of Contents Our other commercial commitments as of December31, 2011, are as follows: Other Commercial Commitments 2012 2013 - 2014 2015 - 2016 After 2016 Total In millions Standby letters of credit under revolving credit agreement $ 37 $  $  $  $ 37 International and other domestic letters of credit 21 5  2 28 Performance and excise bonds 21 56 4  81 Guarantees, indemnifications and other commitments 7 20 18  45 Total $ 86 $ 81 $ 22 $ 2 $ 191 APPLICATION OF CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES A summary of our significant accounting policies is included in Note1, "SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES," of our Consolidated Financial Statements which discusses accounting policies that we have selected from acceptable alternatives.
Our Consolidated Financial Statements are prepared in accordance with GAAP which often requires management to make judgments, estimates and assumptions regarding uncertainties that affect the reported amounts presented and disclosed in the financial statements. Management reviews these estimates and assumptions based on historical experience, changes in business conditions and other relevant factors they believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. In any given reporting period, our actual results may differ from the estimates and assumptions used in preparing our Consolidated Financial Statements.
Critical accounting estimates are defined as follows: the estimate requires management to make assumptions about matters that were highly uncertain at the time the estimate was made; different estimates reasonably could have been used; or if changes in the estimate are reasonably likely to occur from period to period and the change would have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations. Our senior management has discussed the development and selection of our accounting policies, related accounting estimates and the disclosures set forth below with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors. We believe our critical accounting estimates include those addressing the estimation of liabilities for warranty programs, recoverability of investment related to new products, accounting for income taxes and pension benefits.
Warranty Programs We estimate and record a liability for base warranty programs at the time our products are sold. Our estimates are based on historical experience and reflect management's best estimates of expected costs at the time products are sold and subsequent adjustment to those expected costs when actual costs differ. As a result of the uncertainty surrounding the nature and frequency of product recall programs, the liability for such programs is recorded when we commit to a recall action or when a recall becomes probable and estimable, which generally occurs when it is announced. Our warranty liability is generally affected by component failure rates, repair costs and the point of failure within the product life cycle. Future events and circumstances related to these factors could materially change our estimates and require adjustments to our liability. New product launches require a greater use of judgment in developing estimates until historical experience becomes available. Product specific experience is typically available four or five quarters after product launch, with a clear experience trend evident eight quarters after launch. We generally record warranty expense for new products upon shipment using a preceding product's warranty history and a multiplicative factor based upon preceding similar product experience and new product assessment until sufficient new product data is available for warranty estimation. We then use a blend of actual new product experience and preceding product 65 Table of Contents historical experience for several subsequent quarters, and new product specific experience thereafter. Note11, "PRODUCT WARRANTY LIABILITY," to our Consolidated Financial Statements contains a summary of the activity in our warranty liability account for 2011 and 2010 including adjustments to pre-existing warranties.
Recoverability of Investment Related to New Products At December31, 2011, we have capitalized $221million associated with the future launch of our light-duty diesel engine product. Development of this product began in 2006. Market uncertainty related to the global recession that began in 2008 resulted in some customers delaying or cancelling their vehicle programs. At December31, 2009, we reviewed our investment of $216million for possible impairment. We used projections to assess whether future cash flows on an undiscounted basis related to the assets are likely to exceed the related carrying amount to determine if a write-down is appropriate. These projections required estimates about product volume and the size of the market for vehicles that are not yet developed. We used input from our customers in developing alternative cash flow scenarios. Our analysis indicated that the assets were recoverable. Customers that are expected to purchase sufficient quantities to recover our investment in the light-duty diesel engine products remained active with the development of this product through 2011 and there were no significant changes to the assumptions used in 2009. If customer expectations or projected volumes deteriorate and we do not identify alternative customers and/or product applications, we could be required to write-down these assets to net realizable value.
Accounting for Income Taxes We determine our income tax expense using the asset and liability method. Under this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax effects of temporary differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases. Future tax benefits of tax loss and credit carryforwards are also recognized as deferred tax assets. We evaluate the recoverability of our deferred tax assets each quarter by assessing the likelihood of future profitability and available tax planning strategies that could be implemented to realize our net deferred tax assets. At December31, 2011, we recorded net deferred tax assets of $417million. These assets included $128million for the value of tax loss and credit carryforwards. A valuation allowance of $71million was recorded to reduce the tax assets to the net value management believed was more likely than not to be realized. In the event our operating performance deteriorates, future assessments could conclude that a larger valuation allowance will be needed to further reduce the deferred tax assets. In addition, we operate within multiple taxing jurisdictions and are subject to tax audits in these jurisdictions. These audits can involve complex issues, which may require an extended period of time to resolve. We reduce our net tax assets for the estimated additional tax and interest that may result from tax authorities disputing uncertain tax positions we have taken and we believe we have made adequate provision for income taxes for all years that are subject to audit based upon the latest information available. A more complete description of our income taxes and the future benefits of our tax loss and credit carryforwards is disclosed in Note4, "INCOME TAXES," to our Consolidated Financial Statements .
Pension Benefits We sponsor a number of pension plans primarily in the U.S. and the U.K. and to a lesser degree in various other countries. In the U.S. and the U.K. we have several major defined benefit plans that are separately funded. We account for our pension programs in accordance with employers' accounting for defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans under GAAP. GAAP requires that amounts recognized in financial statements be determined using an actuarial basis. As a result, our pension benefit programs are based on a number of statistical and judgmental assumptions that attempt to 66 Table of Contents anticipate future events and are used in calculating the expense and liability related to our plans each year at December31. These assumptions include discount rates used to value liabilities, assumed rates of return on plan assets, future compensation increases, employee turnover rates, actuarial assumptions relating to retirement age, mortality rates and participant withdrawals. The actuarial assumptions we use may differ significantly from actual results due to changing economic conditions, participant life span and withdrawal rates. These differences may result in a material impact to the amount of net periodic pension expense to be recorded in our Consolidated Financial Statements in the future.
The expected long-term return on plan assets is used in calculating the net periodic pension expense. We considered several factors in developing our expected rate of return on plan assets. The long-term rate of return considers historical returns and expected returns on current and projected asset allocations and is generally applied to a 5-year average market value of return. Projected returns are based primarily on broad, publicly traded equity and fixed income indices and forward-looking estimates of active portfolio and investment management. As of December31, 2011, based upon our target asset allocations it is anticipated that our U.S. investment policy will generate an average annual return over the 10-year projection period equal to or in excess of 7.5percent approximately 50percent of the time while returns of 10.0percent or greater are anticipated 25percent of the time. We expect additional positive returns from active investment management. The 2011 one year return was 13percent, combined with the very favorable returns in 2010 has eliminated the significant deterioration in pension assets experienced in 2008 as a result of the credit crisis and related market recession. Based on the historical returns and forward-looking return expectations, we believe an investment return assumption of 8.0percent per year in 2012 for U.S. pension assets is reasonable. The methodology used to determine the rate of return on pension plan assets in the U.K. was based on establishing an equity-risk premium over current long-term bond yields adjusted based on target asset allocations. As of December31, 2011, based upon our target asset allocations, it is anticipated that our U.K. investment policy will generate an average annual return over the 20-year projection period equal to or in excess of 6.0percent approximately 50percent of the time while returns of 6.9percent or greater are anticipated 25percent of the time. We expect additional positive returns from active investment management. The one year return for our U.K. plan was approximately six percent for 2011 and similar to our U.S. plan, the 2008 market related deterioration in our plan assets has been eliminated. Our strategy with respect to our investments in pension plan assets is to be invested with a long-term outlook. Therefore, the risk and return balance of our asset portfolio should reflect a long-term horizon. Based on the historical returns and forward-looking return expectations, we believe an investment return assumption of 6.5percent in 2012 for U.K. pension assets is reasonable. Our pension plan asset allocation at December31, 2011 and 2010 and target allocation for 2012 are as follows: U.S. Plans U.K. Plans Percentage of Plan Assets at December31, Percentage of Plan Assets at December31, Target Allocation 2012 Target Allocation 2012 Investment description 2011 2010 2011 2010 Equity securities 45.0 % 44.2 % 46.8 % 40.0 % 45.0 % 57.0 % Fixed income 40.0 % 42.2 % 41.2 % 45.0 % 46.0 % 40.0 % Real estate/other 15.0 % 13.6 % 12.0 % 15.0 % 9.0 % 3.0 % Total 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 67 Table of Contents The differences between the actual return on plan assets and expected long-term return on plan assets are recognized in the asset value used to calculate net periodic expense over five years. The table below sets forth the expected return assumptions used to develop our pension expense for the period 2009-2011 and our expected rate for 2012.
Long-Term Expected Return Assumptions 2012 2011 2010 2009 U.S. Plans 8.00 % 8.00 % 8.00 % 8.25 % Non-U.S. Plans 6.50 % 7.00 % 7.25 % 7.25 % A lower expected rate of return will increase our net periodic pension expense and reduce profitability.
GAAP for pensions offers various acceptable alternatives to account for the differences that eventually arise between the estimates used in the actuarial valuations and the actual results. It is acceptable to delay or immediately recognize these differences. Under the delayed recognition alternative, changes in pension obligation (including those resulting from plan amendments) and changes in the value of assets set aside to meet those obligation are not recognized in net periodic pension cost as they occur but are recognized initially in comprehensive income and subsequently amortized as components of net periodic pension cost systematically and gradually over future periods. In addition to this approach, GAAP also allows immediate recognition of gains or losses. Immediate recognition introduces volatility in financial results. We have chosen to delay recognition and amortize actuarial differences over future periods. If we adopted the immediate recognition approach, we would record a loss of $1,003million ($669million after-tax) for our U.S. and U.K. pension plans.
The difference between the expected return and the actual return on plan assets is deferred from recognition in our results of operations and, under certain circumstances such as when the difference exceeds 10percent of the market value of plan assets or the projected benefit obligation (PBO), amortized over future years of service. This is also true of changes to actuarial assumptions. As of December31, 2011, we had net pension actuarial losses of $700 million and $305 million for the U.S. and non-U.S. pension plans, respectively. Under GAAP, the actuarial gains and losses are recognized and recorded in accumulated other comprehensive loss. Increases in actuarial losses decreased our shareholders' equity by $96 million (after-tax) in 2011. The increases were due to liability losses from reduced discount rates, partially offset by improved U.S. plan asset performance in 2011. As these amounts exceed 10percent of our PBO, the excess is amortized over the average remaining service lives of participating employees.
The table below sets forth the net periodic pension expense for the period 2009 through 2011 and our expected expense for 2012.
Net Periodic Pension Expense In millions 2012 2011 2010 2009 Pension expense $ 68 $ 68 $ 70 $ 93 We expect 2012 pension expense to be approximately the same as 2011, the favorable impacts of investment returns and higher asset values are offset by higher service cost due to increased headcount and a decrease in discount rate. The decrease in periodic pension expense in 2011, was due to improved returns on assets as the capital markets began to recover, strong contributions in 2010 and the absence of any curtailment charges. The decrease in periodic pension expense in 2010 was due to improved returns on assets as the capital markets began to recover, strong contributions in 2009 and the absence of any curtailment charges. Another key assumption used in the development of the net 68 Table of Contents periodic pension expense is the discount rate. The weighted average discount rates used to develop our net periodic pension expense are set forth in the table below.
Discount Rates 2012 2011 2010 2009 U.S. Plans 4.82 % 5.42 % 5.60 % 6.20 % Non-U.S. Plans 5.20 % 5.80 % 5.80 % 6.20 % Changes in the discount rate assumptions will impact the interest cost component of the net periodic pension expense calculation.
The discount rate enables us to state expected future cash payments for benefits as a present value on the measurement date. The guidelines for setting this rate are discussed in GAAP which suggests the use of a high-quality corporate bond rate. We used bond information provided by Moody's Investor ServiceInc., Standard& Poor's Rating Services, Fitch Ratings and Dominion Bond Rating. All bonds used to develop our hypothetical portfolio in the U.S. and U.K. were high-quality, non-callable bonds (Aa or better) as of December31, 2011, by at least two of the bond rating agencies. The average yield of this hypothetical bond portfolio was used as the benchmark for determining the discount rate to be used to value the obligations of the plans subject to GAAP for pensions and other postretirement benefits.
Our model called for 80years of benefit payments for the U.S. plans and 60years of payments for the U.K. For both countries, our model matches the present value of the plan's projected benefit payments to the market value of the theoretical settlement bond portfolio. A single equivalent discount rate is determined to align the present value of the required cash flow with the value of the bond portfolio. The resulting discount rate is reflective of both the current interest rate environment and the plan's distinct liability characteristics.
The table below sets forth the estimated impact on our 2012 net periodic pension expense relative to a change in the discount rate and a change in the expected rate of return on plan assets.
In millions Impact on Pension Expense Increase (Decrease) Discount rate used to value liabilities: 0.25percent increase $ (4 ) 0.25percent decrease 4 Expected rate of return on assets: Onepercent increase (32 ) Onepercent decrease 32 The above sensitivities reflect the impact of changing one assumption at a time. A higher discount rate decreases the plan obligations and decreases our net periodic pension expense. A lower discount rate increases the plan obligations and increases our net periodic pension expense. It should be noted that economic factors and conditions often affect multiple assumptions simultaneously and the effects of changes in key assumptions are not necessarily linear.
Note12, "PENSION AND OTHER POSTRETIREMENT BENEFITS," to our Consolidated Financial Statements provides a summary of our pension benefit plan activity, the funded status of our plans and the amounts recognized in our Consolidated Financial Statements .
69 Table of Contents RECENTLY ADOPTED AND RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS Accounting Pronouncements Recently Adopted In September 2011, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) amended its standards related to the testing of goodwill for impairment. The objective of this amendment is to simplify the annual goodwill impairment evaluation process. The amendment provides entities the option to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value as a basis for determining whether it is necessary to perform the two-step goodwill impairment test. The two-step impairment test is now only required if an entity determines through this qualitative analysis that it is more likely than not that the fair value of the reporting unit is less than its carrying value. The new rules become effective during interim and annual periods beginning after December15, 2011, however entities are permitted to early adopt the standard. We elected to early adopt the standard and applied the qualitative analysis to certain reporting units in our 2011 goodwill impairment testing process. Because the measurement of a potential impairment loss has not changed, the standard did not have a significant impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements .
In October 2009, the FASB amended its rules regarding the accounting for multiple element revenue arrangements. The objective of the amendment is to allow vendors to account for revenue for different deliverables separately as opposed to part of a combined unit when those deliverables are provided at different times. Specifically, this amendment addresses how to separate deliverables and simplifies the process of allocating revenue to the different deliverables when more than one deliverable exists. The new rules were effective for us beginning January1, 2011. This amendment did not have a significant impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements as multiple element arrangements are not material to our business.
In June 2009, the FASB amended its existing standards related to the consolidation of variable interest entities, which was effective for interim and annual fiscal periods beginning after November15, 2009. The new standard requires entities to analyze whether their variable interests give it a controlling financial interest of a variable interest entity (VIE) and outlines what defines a primary beneficiary. The new standard amends GAAP by: (a)changing certain rules for determining whether an entity is a VIE; (b)replacing the quantitative approach previously required for determining the primary beneficiary with a more qualitative approach; and (c)requiring entities to continuously analyze whether they are the primary beneficiary of a VIE among other amendments. The new standard also requires enhanced disclosures regarding an entity's involvement in a VIE. The only significant impact of the adoption of this standard was to deconsolidate Cummins Komatsu Engine Corporation (CKEC) as of January1, 2010 and to account for CKEC under GAAP for equity method investees. CKEC is an engine manufacturing entity jointly owned and operated by us and our equity partner. Prior to January1, 2010, we were deemed the primary beneficiary of this VIE due to the pricing arrangements of purchases and the substantial volume of purchases we made from the VIE. The impact of the deconsolidation on our Consolidated Statements of Income was minimal as all sales were eliminated in consolidation in the past. The most significant impacts on our Consolidated Balance Sheets were to decrease current assets by $9 million, decrease long-term assets by $10 million, increase investments and advances related to equity method investees by $11 million and decrease noncontrolling interest by $11 million in 2010.
Accounting Pronouncements Issued But Not Yet Effective In December 2011, the FASB amended its standards related to offsetting assets and liabilities. This amendment requires entities to disclose both gross and net information about instruments and transactions eligible for offset in the statement of financial position and instruments and transactions subject to an agreement similar to a master netting agreement. This information will enable users of 70 Table of Contents the financial statements to understand the effect of those arrangements on its financial position. The new rules will become effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after January1, 2013, and interim periods within those annual periods. It is also required that the new disclosures are applied retrospectively for all comparative periods presented. We do not believe this amendment will have a significant impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements ; however we are currently evaluating the potential impacts to our footnote disclosures.
In June 2011, the FASB amended its rules regarding the presentation of comprehensive income. The objective of this amendment is to improve the comparability, consistency and transparency of financial reporting and to increase the prominence of items reported in other comprehensive income. Specifically, this amendment requires that all non-owner changes in shareholders' equity be presented either in a single continuous statement of comprehensive income or in two separate but consecutive statements. In addition, the standard also requires disclosure of the location of reclassification adjustments between other comprehensive income and net income on the face of the financial statements. The new rules are scheduled to become effective during interim and annual periods beginning after December15, 2011. In December 2011, the FASB deferred certain aspects of this standard beyond the current effective date, specifically the provisions dealing with reclassification adjustments. Because the standard only impacts the display of comprehensive income and does not impact what is included in comprehensive income, the standard will not have a significant impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements .
In May 2011, the FASB amended its standards related to fair value measurements and disclosures. The objective of the amendment is to improve the comparability of fair value measurements presented and disclosed in financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S.GAAP and International Financial Reporting Standards. Primarily this amendment changed the wording used to describe many of the requirements in U.S.GAAP for measuring fair value and for disclosing information about fair value measurements in addition to clarifying the Board's intent about the application of existing fair value measurement requirements. The new standard also requires additional disclosures related to fair value measurements categorized within Level3 of the fair value hierarchy and requires disclosure of the categorization in the hierarchy for items which are not recorded at fair value but fair value is required to be disclosed. The new rules will become effective during interim and annual periods beginning after December15, 2011. As of December31, 2011, we had no fair value measurements categorized within Level3. The only impact for us is expected to be the disclosure of the categorization in the fair value hierarchy for those items where fair value is only disclosed (primarily our debt obligations).
ITEM 7A.Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk We are exposed to financial risk resulting from volatility in foreign exchange rates, commodity prices and interest rates. This risk is closely monitored and managed through the use of financial derivative instruments including foreign currency forward contracts, commodity swap contracts and interest rate swaps. As stated in our policies and procedures, financial derivatives are used expressly for hedging purposes, and under no circumstances are they used for speculative purposes. When material, we adjust the value of our derivative contracts for counter-party or our credit risk.
Further information regarding financial instruments and risk management is contained in Note20, "DERIVATIVES," to our Consolidated Financial Statements .
The following describes our risk exposures and provides results of sensitivity analysis performed as of December31, 2011. The sensitivity analysis assumes instantaneous, parallel shifts in foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices.
71 Table of Contents Foreign Exchange Rates As a result of our international business presence, we are exposed to foreign currency exchange risks. We transact business in foreign currencies and, as a result, our income experiences some volatility related to movements in foreign currency exchange rates. To help manage our exposure to exchange rate volatility, we use foreign exchange forward contracts on a regular basis to hedge forecasted intercompany and third-party sales and purchases denominated in non-functional currencies. Our internal policy allows for managing anticipated foreign currency cash flows for up to one year. These foreign currency forward contracts are designated and qualify as foreign currency cash flow hedges under GAAP. The effective portion of the unrealized gain or loss on the forward contract is deferred and reported as a component of "Accumulated other comprehensive loss" (AOCL). When the hedged forecasted transaction (sale or purchase) occurs, the unrealized gain or loss is reclassified into income in the same line item associated with the hedged transaction in the same period or periods during which the hedged transaction affects income. The ineffective portion of the hedge, unrealized gain or loss, if any, is recognized in current income during the period of change. As of December31, 2011, the amount we expect to reclassify from AOCL to income over the next year is an unrealized net loss of $6 million. For the years ended December31, 2011 and 2010, there were no circumstances that would have resulted in the discontinuance of a foreign currency cash flow hedge.
To minimize the income volatility resulting from the remeasurement of net monetary assets and payables denominated in a currency other than the functional currency, we enter into foreign currency forward contracts, which are considered economic hedges. The objective is to offset the gain or loss from remeasurement with the gain or loss from the fair market valuation of the forward contract. These derivative instruments are not designated as hedges under GAAP.
As of December31, 2011, the potential gain or loss in the fair value of our outstanding foreign currency contracts, assuming a hypothetical 10percent fluctuation in the currencies of such contracts, would be approximately $67 million. The sensitivity analysis of the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates assumes the notional value to remain constant for the next 12months. The analysis ignores the impact of foreign exchange movements on our competitive position and potential changes in sales levels. It should be noted that any change in the value of the contracts, real or hypothetical, would be significantly offset by an inverse change in the value of the underlying hedged items (see Note20, "DERIVATIVES," to our Consolidated Financial Statements ).
Interest Rate Risk We are exposed to market risk from fluctuations in interest rates. We manage our exposure to interest rate fluctuations through the use of interest rate swaps. The objective of the swaps is to more effectively balance our borrowing costs and interest rate risk.
In November 2005, we entered into an interest rate swap to effectively convert our $250 million debt issue, due in 2028, from a fixed rate of 7.125percent to a floating rate based on a LIBOR spread. The terms of the swap mirror those of the debt, with interest paid semi-annually. This swap qualifies as a fair value hedge under GAAP. The gain or loss on this derivative instrument as well as the offsetting gain or loss on the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk are recognized in current income as "Interest expense." The following table summarizes these gains and losses for the years presented below: For the years ended December31, 2011 2010 In millions Income Statement Classification Gain/(Loss) on Swaps Gain/(Loss) on Borrowings Gain/(Loss) on Swaps Gain/(Loss) on Borrowings Interest expense $ 41 $ (41 ) $ 16 $ (16 ) 72 Table of Contents Commodity Price Risk We are exposed to fluctuations in commodity prices due to contractual agreements with component suppliers. In order to protect ourselves against future price volatility and, consequently, fluctuations in gross margins, we periodically enter into commodity swap contracts with designated banks to fix the cost of certain raw material purchases with the objective of minimizing changes in inventory cost due to market price fluctuations. Certain commodity swap contracts are derivative contracts that are designated as cash flow hedges under GAAP. We also have commodity swap contracts that represent an economic hedge, however do not qualify for hedge accounting and are marked to market through earnings. For those contracts that qualify for hedge accounting, the effective portion of the unrealized gain or loss is deferred and reported as a component of AOCL. When the hedged forecasted transaction (purchase) occurs, the unrealized gain or loss is reclassified into income in the same line item associated with the hedged transaction in the same period or periods during which the hedged transaction affects income. The ineffective portion of the hedge, if any, is recognized in current income in the period in which the ineffectiveness occurs. As of December31, 2011, we expect to reclassify an unrealized net loss of $11 million from AOCL to income over the next year. Our internal policy allows for managing these cash flow hedges for up to three years.
As of December31, 2011, the potential gain or loss related to the outstanding commodity swap contracts, assuming a hypothetical 10percent fluctuation in the price of such commodities, was $13 million. The sensitivity analysis of the effects of changes in commodity prices assumes the notional value to remain constant for the next 12months. The analysis ignores the impact of commodity price movements on our competitive position and potential changes in sales levels. It should be noted that any change in the value of the swap contracts, real or hypothetical, would be significantly offset by an inverse change in the value of the underlying hedged items (see Note20, "DERIVATIVES," to the Consolidated Financial Statements ).
73 Table of Contents ITEM 8.Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Index to Financial Statements  Management's Report to Shareholders  Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  Consolidated Statements of Income for the years ended December31, 2011, 2010 and 2009  Consolidated Balance Sheets at December31, 2011 and 2010  Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended December31, 2011, 2010 and 2009  Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity for the years ended December31, 2011, 2010 and 2009  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements NOTE 1 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES NOTE 2 DIVESTITURES AND ACQUISITIONS NOTE 3 INVESTMENTS IN EQUITY INVESTEES NOTE 4 INCOME TAXES NOTE 5 MARKETABLE SECURITIES NOTE 6 FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS NOTE 7 INVENTORIES NOTE 8 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT NOTE 9 GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS NOTE 10 DEBT NOTE 11 PRODUCT WARRANTY LIABILITY NOTE 12 PENSION AND OTHER POSTRETIREMENT BENEFITS NOTE 13 OTHER LIABILITIES AND DEFERRED REVENUE NOTE 14 COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES NOTE 15 SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY NOTE 16 OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS) NOTE 17 STOCK INCENTIVE AND STOCK OPTION PLANS NOTE 18 NONCONTROLLING INTERESTS NOTE 19 EARNINGS PER SHARE NOTE 20 DERIVATIVES NOTE 21 SALES OF ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE NOTE 22 RESTRUCTURING AND OTHER CHARGES NOTE 23 OPERATING SEGMENTS  Selected Quarterly Financial Data 74 Table of Contents MANAGEMENT'S REPORT TO SHAREHOLDERS Management's Report on Financial Statements and Practices The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements of CumminsInc. were prepared by management, which is responsible for their integrity and objectivity. The statements were prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and include amounts that are based on management's best judgments and estimates. The other financial information included in the annual report is consistent with that in the financial statements.
Management also recognizes its responsibility for conducting our affairs according to the highest standards of personal and corporate conduct. This responsibility is characterized and reflected in key policy statements issued from time to time regarding, among other things, conduct of its business activities within the laws of the host countries in which we operate, within The Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and potentially conflicting interests of its employees. We maintain a systematic program to assess compliance with these policies.
To comply with the requirements of Section404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we designed and implemented a structured and comprehensive compliance process to evaluate our internal control over financial reporting across the enterprise.
Management's Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting The management of CumminsInc. is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. Internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and preparation of our Consolidated Financial Statements for external purposes in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
Management assessed the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and concluded it was effective as of December31, 2011. In making its assessment, management utilized the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission in Internal ControlIntegrated Framework.
The effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December31, 2011, has been audited by PricewaterhouseCoopersLLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in their report which appears herein.
Officer Certifications Please refer to Exhibits31(a) and 31(b) attached to this report for certifications required under Section302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
/s/N. THOMAS LINEBARGER Chairman and Chief Executive Officer /s/PATRICK J. WARD Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 75 Table of Contents Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of CumminsInc.: In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements listed in the accompanying index present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of CumminsInc. and its subsidiaries at December31, 2011 and 2010, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December31, 2011 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Also in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December31, 2011, based on criteria established in Internal ControlIntegrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). The Company's management is responsible for these financial statements, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying "Management's Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting." Our responsibility is to express opinions on these financial statements and on the Company's internal control over financial reporting based on our integrated audits. We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement and whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audits of the financial statements included examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audits also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions.
A company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company's internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (i)pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii)provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (iii)provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopersLLP Indianapolis, Indiana February20, 2012 76 Table of Contents CUMMINSINC. AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME Years ended December31, In millions, except per share amounts 2011 2010 2009 NET SALES(a) $ 18,048 $ 13,226 $ 10,800 Cost of sales 13,459 10,058 8,631 GROSS MARGIN 4,589 3,168 2,169 OPERATING EXPENSES AND INCOME Selling, general and administrative expenses 1,837 1,487 1,239 Research, development and engineering expenses (Note1) 629 414 362 Equity, royalty and interest income from investees (Note3) 416 351 214 Gain on sale of businesses (Note2) 121   Restructuring and other charges (Note22)   99 Other operating (expense) income, net 21 (16 ) (1 ) OPERATING INCOME 2,681 1,602 682 Interest income 34 21 8 Interest expense (Note10) 44 40 35 Other income (expense), net  34 (15 ) INCOME BEFORE INCOME TAXES 2,671 1,617 640 Income tax expense (Note4) 725 477 156 CONSOLIDATED NET INCOME 1,946 1,140 484 Less: Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests 98 100 56 NET INCOME ATTRIBUTABLE TO CUMMINS INC.
$ 1,848 $ 1,040 $ 428 EARNINGS PER COMMON SHARE ATTRIBUTABLE TO CUMMINS INC.
(Note19) Basic $ 9.58 $ 5.29 $ 2.17 Diluted $ 9.55 $ 5.28 $ 2.16 (a) Includes sales to nonconsolidated equity investees of $2,594million, $2,210million and $1,830million for the years ended December31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of our Consolidated Financial Statements.
77 Table of Contents CUMMINSINC. AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS December31, In millions, except par value 2011 2010 ASSETS Current assets Cash and cash equivalents $ 1,484 $ 1,023 Marketable securities (Note5) 277 339 Total cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities 1,761 1,362 Accounts and notes receivable, net Trade and other 2,252 1,935 Nonconsolidated equity investees 274 308 Inventories (Note7) 2,141 1,977 Deferred income taxes (Note4) 268 314 Prepaid expenses and other current assets 395 393 Total current assets 7,091 6,289 Long-term assets Property, plant and equipment, net (Note8) 2,288 2,041 Investments and advances related to equity method investees (Note3) 838 734 Goodwill (Note9) 339 367 Other intangible assets, net (Note9) 227 222 Other assets 885 749 Total assets $ 11,668 $ 10,402 LIABILITIES Current liabilities Loans payable (Note10) $ 28 $ 82 Accounts payable (principally trade) 1,546 1,362 Current portion of accrued product warranty (Note11) 422 421 Accrued compensation, benefits and retirement costs 511 468 Deferred revenue 208 182 Taxes payable (including taxes on income) 282 202 Other accrued expenses 660 543 Total current liabilities 3,657 3,260 Long-term liabilities Long-term debt (Note10) 658 709 Pensions (Note12) 205 195 Postretirement benefits other than pensions (Note12) 432 439 Other liabilities and deferred revenue (Note13) 885 803 Total liabilities 5,837 5,406 Commitments and contingencies (Note14)   EQUITY CumminsInc. shareholders' equity (Note15) Common stock, $2.50 par value, 500 shares authorized, 222.2 and 221.8 shares issued 2,001 1,934 Retained earnings 6,038 4,445 Treasury stock, at cost, 30.2 and 24.0 shares (1,587 ) (964 ) Common stock held by employee benefits trust, at cost, 1.8 and 2.1 shares (22 ) (25 ) Accumulated other comprehensive loss Defined benefit postretirement plans (724 ) (646 ) Other (214 ) (74 ) Total accumulated other comprehensive loss (938 ) (720 ) Total CumminsInc. shareholders' equity 5,492 4,670 Noncontrolling interests (Note18) 339 326 Total equity 5,831 4,996 Total liabilities and equity $ 11,668 $ 10,402 The accompanying notes are an integral part of our Consolidated Financial Statements.
78 Table of Contents CUMMINSINC. AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS Years ended December31, In millions 2011 2010 2009 CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES Consolidated net income $ 1,946 $ 1,140 $ 484 Adjustments to reconcile consolidated net income to net cash provided by operating activities: Restructuring and other charges, net of cash payments (Note22)   16 Depreciation and amortization 325 320 326 Gain on sale of businesses (Note2) (121 )   Gain on fair value adjustment for consolidated investee (Note2)  (12 )  Deferred income taxes (Note4) 85 56 5 Equity in income of investees, net of dividends (23 ) (147 ) 23 Pension contributions in excess of expense (Note12) (131 ) (151 ) (36 ) Other post-retirement benefits payments in excess of expense (Note12) (31 ) (35 ) (24 ) Stock-based compensation expense (Note17) 42 22 20 Excess tax (benefits) deficiencies on stock-based awards (5 ) (10 ) 1 Translation and hedging activities 4 13 41 Changes in current assets and liabilities, net of acquisitions and divestitures (Note1) (154 ) (245 ) 127 Changes in other liabilities and deferred revenue 139 133 155 Other, net (3 ) (78 ) (1 ) Net cash provided by operating activities 2,073 1,006 1,137 CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES Capital expenditures (622 ) (364 ) (310 ) Investments in internal use software (60 ) (43 ) (35 ) Proceeds from disposals of property, plant and equipment 8 55 10 Investments in and advances to equity investees (81 ) (2 ) (3 ) Proceeds from sale of businesses, net of cash sold (Note2) 199   Acquisition of businesses, net of cash acquired (Note2)  (104 ) (2 ) Investments in marketable securities-acquisitions (Note5) (729 ) (823 ) (431 ) Investments in marketable securities-liquidations (Note5) 750 690 335 Purchases of other investments  (62 ) (62 ) Cash flows from derivatives not designated as hedges (18 ) 2 (18 ) Other, net 1  7 Net cash used in investing activities (552 ) (651 ) (509 ) CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES Proceeds from borrowings 127 214 76 Payments on borrowings and capital lease obligations (237 ) (143 ) (97 ) Net borrowings (payments) under short-term credit agreements 6 9 (2 ) Distributions to noncontrolling interests (56 ) (28 ) (34 ) Dividend payments on common stock (Note15) (255 ) (172 ) (141 ) Proceeds from sale of common stock held by employee benefit trust (Note15)  58 72 Repurchases of common stock (Note15) (629 ) (241 ) (20 ) Excess tax benefits (deficiencies) on stock-based awards 5 10 (1 ) Other, net 14 26 6 Net cash used in financing activities (1,025 ) (267 ) (141 ) EFFECT OF EXCHANGE RATE CHANGES ON CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS (35 ) 5 17 Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 461 93 504 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 1,023 930 426 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT END OF PERIOD $ 1,484 $ 1,023 $ 930 The accompanying notes are an integral part of our Consolidated Financial Statements.
79 Table of Contents CUMMINSINC. AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN EQUITY In millions Common Stock Additional paid-in Capital Retained Earnings Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss Treasury Stock Common Stock Held in Trust Unearned Compensation Total CumminsInc.
Shareholders' Equity Noncontrolling Interests Total Equity BALANCE AT DECEMBER31, 2008 $ 554 $ 1,239 $ 3,288 $ (1,066 ) $ (715 ) $ (61 ) $ (5 ) $ 3,234 $ 246 $ 3,480 Comprehensive income: Net income attributable to Cummins Inc.
428 428 56 484 Other comprehensive income (loss): Unrealized gain on derivatives 75 75  75 Foreign currency translation adjustments 86 86 14 100 Change in pensions and other postretirement defined benefit plans 10 10  10 Total comprehensive income 599 70 669 Issuance of shares 1 6 7  7 Employee benefits trust activity 61 25 86  86 Acquisition of shares (20 ) (20 )  (20 ) Cash dividends on common stock (141 ) (141 )  (141 ) Distribution to noncontrolling interests  (34 ) (34 ) Stock option exercises (2 ) 4 2  2 Conversion to capital lease (Note14)  (35 ) (35 ) Other shareholder transactions 2 4 6  6 BALANCE AT DECEMBER31, 2009 $ 555 $ 1,306 $ 3,575 $ (895 ) $ (731 ) $ (36 ) $ (1 ) $ 3,773 $ 247 $ 4,020 Comprehensive income: Net income attributable to Cummins Inc.
1,040 1,040 100 1,140 Other comprehensive income (loss): Unrealized gain on marketable securities 2 2 2 4 Unrealized gain on derivatives 4 4  4 Foreign currency translation adjustments 27 27 10 37 Change in pensions and other postretirement defined benefit plans 142 142  142 Total comprehensive income 1,215 112 1,327 Issuance of shares 7 7  7 Employee benefits trust activity 68 11 79  79 Acquisition of shares (241 ) (241 )  (241 ) Cash dividends on common stock (172 ) (172 )  (172 ) Distribution to noncontrolling interests  (29 ) (29 ) Stock option exercises 8 8  8 Deconsolidation of variable interest entity (Note1)  (11 ) (11 ) Other shareholder transactions (1 ) (1 ) 2 1 1 7 8 BALANCE AT DECEMBER31, 2010 $ 554 $ 1,380 $ 4,445 $ (720 ) $ (964 ) $ (25 ) $  $ 4,670 $ 326 $ 4,996 The accompanying notes are an integral part of our Consolidated Financial Statements.
80 Table of Contents CUMMINSINC. AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN EQUITY (Continued) In millions Common Stock Additional paid-in Capital Retained Earnings Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss Treasury Stock Common Stock Held in Trust Unearned Compensation Total CumminsInc.
Shareholders' Equity Noncontrolling Interests Total Equity BALANCE AT DECEMBER31, 2010 $ 554 $ 1,380 $ 4,445 $ (720 ) $ (964 ) $ (25 ) $  $ 4,670 $ 326 $ 4,996 Comprehensive income: Net income attributable to Cummins Inc.
1,848 1,848 98 1,946 Other comprehensive income (loss): Unrealized gain on marketable securities  1 1 Unrealized loss on derivatives (32 ) (32 )  (32 ) Foreign currency translation adjustments (108 ) (108 ) (39 ) (147 ) Change in pensions and other postretirement defined benefit plans (78 ) (78 )  (78 ) Total comprehensive income 1,630 60 1,690 Issuance of shares 1 13 14  14 Employee benefits trust activity 25 3 28  28 Acquisition of shares (629 ) (629 )  (629 ) Cash dividends on common stock (255 ) (255 )  (255 ) Distribution to noncontrolling interests  (56 ) (56 ) Stock option exercises 6 6  6 Other shareholder transactions 28 28 9 37 BALANCE AT DECEMBER31, 2011 $ 555 $ 1,446 $ 6,038 $ (938 )(1) $ (1,587 ) $ (22 ) $  $ 5,492 $ 339 $ 5,831 (1) Comprised of defined benefit postretirement plans of $(724)million, foreign currency translation adjustments of $(198)million, unrealized gain on marketable securities of $4million and unrealized loss on derivatives of $(20)million.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of our Consolidated Financial Statements.
81 Table of Contents CUMMINSINC. AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE 1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Nature of Operations CumminsInc. was founded in 1919 as a corporation in Columbus, Indiana, as one of the first diesel engine manufacturers. We are a global power leader that designs, manufactures, distributes and services diesel and natural gas engines and engine-related component products, including filtration, exhaust aftertreatment, fuel systems, controls systems, air handling systems and electric power generation systems. We sell our products to original equipment manufacturers (OEMs), distributors and other customers worldwide. We serve our customers through a network of more than 600 company-owned and independent distributor locations and more than 6,500 dealer locations in more than 190 countries and territories.
Principles of Consolidation Our Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of all wholly-owned and majority-owned domestic and foreign subsidiaries where our ownership is more than 50percent of outstanding equity interests except for majority-owned subsidiaries that are considered variable interest entities (VIEs) where we are not deemed to have a controlling financial interest. In addition, we also consolidate, regardless of our ownership percentage, VIEs for which we are deemed to have a controlling financial interest. See "Recently Adopted and Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements" below for revised VIE standards effective January1, 2010. Intercompany balances and transactions are eliminated in consolidation. Where our ownership interest is less than 100percent, the noncontrolling ownership interests are reported in our Consolidated Balance Sheets . The noncontrolling ownership interest in our income, net of tax, is classified as "Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests" in our Consolidated Statements of Income .
Certain amounts for 2010 and 2009 have been reclassified to conform to the current classifications.
We have variable interests in several businesses accounted for under the equity method of accounting that are deemed to be VIEs and are subject to the provisions of accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP) for variable interest entities. None of these VIEs are consolidated and as such are included in the summary of disclosures in Note3, "INVESTMENTS IN EQUITY INVESTEES." The VIEs are not material individually or in the aggregate to our Consolidated Balance Sheets or Consolidated Statements of Income .
Investments in Equity Investees We use the equity method to account for our investments in joint ventures, affiliated companies and alliances in which we have the ability to exercise significant influence, generally represented by equity ownership or partnership equity of at least 20percent but not more than 50percent. Generally, under the equity method, original investments in these entities are recorded at cost and subsequently adjusted by our share of equity in income or losses after the date of acquisition. Investment amounts in excess of our share of an investee's assets are amortized over the life of the related asset creating the excess. If the excess is goodwill, then it is not amortized. Equity in income or losses of each investee is recorded according to our level of ownership; if losses accumulate, we record our share of losses until our investment has been fully depleted. If our investment has been fully depleted, we recognize additional losses only when we are the primary funding source. We eliminate (to the extent of our ownership percentage) in our Consolidated Financial Statements the profit in inventory held by our equity method investees that has not yet been sold to a third-party. Our investments are classified as 82 Table of Contents CUMMINSINC. AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) NOTE 1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued) "Investments and advances related to equity method investees" in our Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Our share of the results from joint ventures, affiliated companies and alliances is reported in our Consolidated Statements of Income as "Equity, royalty and interest income from investees," and is reported net of all applicable income taxes.
Our foreign equity investees are presented net of applicable foreign income taxes in our Consolidated Statements of Income . The vast majority of our United States (U.S.) equity investees are partnerships (non-taxable), thus there is no difference between gross or net of tax presentation as the investees are not taxed.
Use of Estimates in the Preparation of the Financial Statements Preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect reported amounts presented and disclosed in our Consolidated Financial Statements . Significant estimates and assumptions in these Consolidated Financial Statements require the exercise of judgment and are used for, but not limited to, allowance for doubtful accounts, estimates of future cash flows and other assumptions associated with goodwill and long-lived asset impairment tests, useful lives for depreciation and amortization, warranty programs, determination of discount and other rate assumptions for pension and other postretirement benefit expenses, restructuring costs, income taxes and deferred tax valuation allowances, lease classification, and contingencies. Due to the inherent uncertainty involved in making estimates, actual results reported in future periods may be different from these estimates.
Revenue Recognition We recognize revenue, net of estimated costs of returns, allowances and sales incentives, when it is realized or realizable, which generally occurs when:  Persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists,  The product has been shipped and legal title and all risks of ownership have been transferred,  The sales price is fixed and determinable and  Payment is reasonably assured.
Products are generally sold on open account under credit terms customary to the geographic region of distribution. We perform ongoing credit evaluations of our customers and generally do not require collateral to secure our accounts receivable. For engines, service parts, service tools and other items sold to independent distributors and to partially-owned distributors accounted for under the equity method, revenues are recorded when title and risk of ownership transfers. This transfer is based on the agreement in effect with the respective distributor and in the U.S. and most international locations generally occurs when the products are shipped. To the extent of our ownership percentage, margins on sales to distributors accounted for under the equity method are deferred until the distributor sells the product to unrelated parties.
We provide various sales incentives to both our distribution network and our OEM customers. These programs are designed to promote the sale of our product in the channel or encourage the usage of our products by OEM customers. Sales incentives primarily fall into three categories:  Volume rebates, 83 Table of Contents CUMMINSINC. AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) NOTE 1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued)  Market share rebates and  Aftermarket rebates.
For volume rebates, we provide certain customers with rebate opportunities for attaining specified volumes during a particular quarter or year. We accrue for the expected amount of these rebates at the time of the original sale and update our accruals quarterly based on our best estimate of the volume levels the customer will reach during the measurement period. For market share rebates, we provide certain customers with rebate opportunities based on the percentage of their production that utilizes a Cummins product. These rebates are typically measured either quarterly or annually and are accrued at the time of the original sale based on the current market shares, with adjustments made as the level changes. For aftermarket rebates we provide incentives to promote sales to certain dealers and end-markets. These rebates are typically paid on a quarterly, or more frequent, basis and estimates are made at the end of each quarter as to the amount yet to be paid. These estimates are based on historical experience with the particular program. The incentives are classified as a reduction in sales in our Consolidated Statements of Income .
Rights of return do not exist for a large portion of our sales, other than for quality issues. We do offer certain return rights in our aftermarket business, where some aftermarket customers are permitted to return small amounts of parts and filters each year and in our power generation business, which sells portable generators to retail customers. An estimate of future returns is accrued at the time of sale based on historical return rates.
Foreign Currency Transactions and Translation We translate assets and liabilities of foreign entities to U.S. dollars, where the local currency is the functional currency, at year-end exchange rates. We translate income and expenses to U.S. dollars using weighted-average exchange rates for the year. We record adjustments resulting from translation in a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) and include the adjustments in net income only upon sale or liquidation of the underlying foreign investment.
Foreign currency transaction gains and losses are included in current net income. For foreign entities where the U.S. dollar is the functional currency, including those operating in highly inflationary economies when applicable, we remeasure inventory, property, plant and equipment balances and the related income statement using historical exchange rates. We include in income the resulting gains and losses, including the effect of derivatives in our Consolidated Statements of Income , which combined with transaction gains and losses amounted to a net loss of $14million in 2011, net loss of $1million in 2010 and a net loss of $20million in 2009.
Derivative Instruments We make use of derivative instruments in foreign exchange, commodity price and interest rate hedging programs. Derivatives currently in use are foreign currency forward contracts, commodity swap contracts and an interest rate swap. These contracts are used strictly for hedging and not for speculative purposes.
Due to our international business presence, we are exposed to foreign currency exchange risk. We transact in foreign currencies and have significant assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies. Consequently, our income experiences some volatility related to movements in foreign currency exchange rates. In order to benefit from global diversification and after considering naturally 84 Table of Contents CUMMINSINC. AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) NOTE 1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued) offsetting currency positions, we enter into foreign currency forward contracts to minimize our existing exposures (recognized assets and liabilities) and hedge forecasted transactions.
We are exposed to fluctuations in commodity prices due to contractual agreements with component suppliers. In order to protect ourselves against future price volatility and, consequently, fluctuations in gross margins, we periodically enter into commodity swap contracts with designated banks to fix the cost of certain raw material purchases with the objective of minimizing changes in inventory cost due to market price fluctuations.
We record all derivatives at fair value in our financial statements. Note20, "DERIVATIVES," provides further information on our hedging strategy and accounting for derivative financial instruments.
Income Tax Accounting We determine our income tax expense using the asset and liability method. Under this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax effects of temporary differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases. Future tax benefits of tax loss and credit carryforwards are also recognized as deferred tax assets. We evaluate the recoverability of our deferred tax assets each quarter by assessing the likelihood of future profitability and available tax planning strategies that could be implemented to realize our net deferred tax assets. At December31, 2011, we recorded net deferred tax assets of $417million. These assets included $128million for the value of tax loss and credit carryforwards. A valuation allowance of $71million was recorded to reduce the tax assets to the net value management believed was more likely than not to be realized. In the event our operating performance deteriorates, future assessments could conclude that a larger valuation allowance will be needed to further reduce the deferred tax assets. In addition, we operate within multiple taxing jurisdictions and are subject to tax audits in these jurisdictions. These audits can involve complex issues, which may require an extended period of time to resolve. We reduce our net tax assets for the estimated additional tax and interest that may result from tax authorities disputing uncertain tax positions we have taken and we believe we have made adequate provision for income taxes for all years that are subject to audit based upon the latest information available. A more complete description of our income taxes and the future benefits of our tax loss and credit carryforwards is disclosed in Note4, "INCOME TAXES".
Cash and Cash Equivalents Cash equivalents are defined as short-term, highly liquid investments with an original maturity of 90days or less at the time of purchase. The carrying amounts reflected in our Consolidated Balance Sheets for cash and cash equivalents approximate fair value due to the short-term maturity of these investments.
85 Table of Contents CUMMINSINC. AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) NOTE 1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued) Statements of Cash Flows-Supplemental Disclosures Years ended December31, In millions 2011 2010 2009 Changes in current assets and liabilities, net of acquisitions and dispositions, were as follows: Accounts and notes receivable $ (350 ) $ (195 ) $ (181 ) Inventories (225 ) (574 ) 482 Other current assets (21 ) (54 ) 33 Accounts payable 208 345 (75 ) Accrued expenses 234 233 (132 ) Total $ (154 ) $ (245 ) $ 127 Cash payments for income taxes, net of refunds $ 532 $ 312 $ 128 Cash payments for interest, net of capitalized interest $ 47 $ 42 $ 31 Marketable Securities We account for marketable securities in accordance with GAAP for investments in debt and equity securities. We determine the appropriate classification of all marketable securities as "held-to-maturity, "available-for-sale" or "trading" at the time of purchase, and re-evaluate such classifications at each balance sheet date. At December31, 2011 and 2010, all of our investments were classified as available-for-sale.
Available-for-sale securities are carried at fair value with the unrealized gain or loss, net of tax, reported in other comprehensive income. Unrealized losses considered to be "other-than-temporary" are recognized currently in income. The cost of securities sold is based on the specific identification method. The fair value of most investment securities is determined by currently available market prices. Where quoted market prices are not available, we use the market price of similar types of securities that are traded in the market to estimate fair value. See Note5, "MARKETABLE SECURITIES," for a detailed description of our investments in marketable securities.
Accounts Receivable and Allowance for Doubtful Accounts Trade accounts receivable are recorded at the invoiced amount, which approximates net realizable value, and generally do not bear interest. We have a trade receivables sales program, which is more fully discussed in Note21, "SALES OF ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE," which allows us to sell, without recourse, an interest in a pool of our trade receivables to a financial institution as necessary. The allowance for doubtful accounts is our best estimate of the amount of probable credit losses in our existing accounts receivable. We determine the allowance based on our historical collection experience and by performing an analysis of our accounts receivable in light of the current economic environment. We review our allowance for doubtful accounts on a regular basis. In addition, when necessary, we provide an allowance for the full amount of specific accounts deemed to be uncollectible. Account 86 Table of Contents CUMMINSINC. AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) NOTE 1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued) balances are charged off against the allowance in the period in which we determine that it is probable the receivable will not be recovered. The activity in our allowance for doubtful accounts is as follows: December31, In millions 2011 2010 2009 Balance, beginning of year $ 15 $ 13 $ 10 Provision for bad debts 6 5 11 Write-offs (8 ) (3 ) (9 ) Other (1 )  1 Balance, end of year $ 12 $ 15 $ 13 Inventories Our inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market. For the years ended December31, 2011 and 2010, approximately 17percent and 16percent, respectively, of our consolidated inventories (primarily heavy-duty and high-horsepower engines and parts) were valued using the last-in, first-out (LIFO) cost method. The cost of other inventories is generally valued using the first-in, first-out (FIFO) cost method. Our inventories at interim and year-end reporting dates include estimates for adjustments related to annual physical inventory results and for inventory cost changes under the LIFO cost method. Due to significant movements of partially-manufactured components and parts between manufacturing plants, we do not internally measure, nor do our accounting systems provide, a meaningful segregation between raw materials and work-in-process.
Property, Plant and Equipment We record property, plant and equipment, inclusive of assets under capital leases, at cost. We depreciate the cost of certain engine production equipment using a modified units-of-production method, which is based upon units produced subject to a minimum level. We depreciate the cost of all other equipment using the straight-line method with depreciable lives ranging from 20 to 40years for buildings and three to 20years for machinery, equipment and fixtures. Capital lease amortization is recorded in depreciation expense. We expense normal maintenance and repair costs as incurred. Depreciation expense totaled $264million, $248million and $269million for the years ended December31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.
Long-Lived Assets We review our long-lived assets for possible impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an asset or asset group may not be recoverable. We assess the recoverability of the carrying value of the long-lived assets at the lowest level for which identifiable cash flows are largely independent of the cash flows of other assets and liabilities. An impairment of a long-lived asset or asset group exists when the expected future pre-tax cash flows (undiscounted and without interest charges) estimated to be generated by the asset or asset group is less than its carrying value. If these cash flows are less than the carrying value of such asset or asset group, an impairment loss is measured based on the difference between the estimated fair value and carrying value of the asset or asset group. Assumptions and estimates used to estimate cash flows in the evaluation of impairment and the fair values used to determine the impairment are subject to a degree of judgment and complexity. Any changes to the assumptions and estimates resulting from changes in actual results or market conditions from those anticipated may affect the carrying value of long-lived assets and could result in a future impairment charge.
87 Table of Contents CUMMINSINC. AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) NOTE 1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued) Goodwill Under GAAP for goodwill, we have the option to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value as a basis for determining whether it is necessary to perform an annual two-step goodwill impairment test. The two-step impairment test is now only required if an entity determines through this qualitative analysis that it is more likely than not that the fair value of the reporting unit is less than its carrying value. In addition, carrying value of goodwill must be tested for impairment on an interim basis in certain circumstances where impairment may be indicated. When we are required or opt to perform the two-step impairment test, the fair value of each reporting unit is estimated by discounting the after tax future cash flows less requirements for working capital and fixed asset additions. Our reporting units are generally defined as one level below an operating segment. However, there were two situations where we have aggregated two or more components which share similar economic characteristics and thus are aggregated into a single reporting unit for testing purposes. These two situations are described further below. This analysis has resulted in the following reporting units for our goodwill testing:  Within our Components segment, emission solutions and filtration have been aggregated into a single reporting unit. This reporting unit accounts for almost 89percent of our total goodwill balance at December31, 2011.
Also within our Components segment, our turbo technologies business is considered a separate reporting unit.
Within our Power Generation segment, our generator technologies business is considered a separate reporting unit.
Within our Engine segment, our new and recon parts business is considered a separate reporting unit. This reporting unit is in the business of selling new parts and remanufacturing and reconditioning engines and certain engine components.
Our Distribution segment is considered a single reporting unit as it is managed geographically and all regions share similar economic characteristics and provide similar products and services.
No other reporting units have goodwill. Our valuation method requires us to make projections of revenue, operating expenses, working capital investment and fixed asset additions for the reporting units over a multi-year period. Additionally, management must estimate a weighted-average cost of capital, which reflects a market rate, for each reporting unit for use as a discount rate. The discounted cash flows are compared to the carrying value of the reporting unit and, if less than the carrying value, a separate valuation of the goodwill is required to determine if an impairment loss has occurred. In addition, we also perform a sensitivity analysis to determine how much our forecasts can fluctuate before the fair value of a reporting unit would be lower than its carrying amount. We performed the required procedures as of the end of our fiscal third quarter and determined that our goodwill was not impaired. At December31, 2011, our recorded goodwill was $339million, approximately 89percent of which resided in the emission solutions plus filtration reporting unit. For this reporting unit, the fair value of the reporting unit exceeded its carrying value by a substantial margin. Changes in our projections or estimates, a deterioration of our operating results and the related cash flow effect or a significant increase in the discount rate could decrease the estimated fair value of our reporting units and result in a future impairment of goodwill.
88 Table of Contents CUMMINSINC. AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) NOTE 1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued) Software We capitalize certain costs for software that are developed or obtained for internal use. Software costs are amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives generally ranging from three to eight years. Software assets are reviewed for impairment when events or circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable over the remaining lives of the assets. Upgrades and enhancements are capitalized if they result in significant modifications that enable the software to perform tasks it was previously incapable of performing. Software maintenance, training, data conversion and business process reengineering costs are expensed in the period in which they are incurred.
Warranty We charge the estimated costs of warranty programs, other than product recalls, to income at the time products are shipped to customers. We use historical experience of warranty programs to develop the estimated liability for our various warranty programs. As a result of the uncertainty surrounding the nature and frequency of product recall programs, the liability for such programs is recorded when we commit to a recall action or when a recall becomes probable and estimable, which generally occurs when it is announced. The liability for these programs is reflected in the provision for warranties issued line item. We review and assess the liability for these programs on a quarterly basis. We also assess our ability to recover certain costs from our suppliers and record a receivable from the supplier when we believe a recovery is probable. At December31, 2011, we had $14million of receivables related to estimated supplier recoveries of which $7million was included in "Trade and other receivables, net" and $7million was included in "Other assets" on our Consolidated Balance Sheets . At December31, 2010, we had $12million of receivables related to estimated supplier recoveries of which $7million was included in "Trade and other receivables, net" and $5million was included in "Other assets" on our Consolidated Balance Sheets .
In addition, we sell extended warranty coverage on most of our engines. The revenue collected is initially deferred and is recognized as revenue in proportion to the costs expected to be incurred in performing services over the contract period. We compare the remaining deferred revenue balance quarterly to the estimated amount of future claims under extended warranty programs and provide an additional accrual when the deferred revenue balance is less than expected future costs.
Research and Development Our research and development program is focused on product improvements, innovations and cost reductions for our customers. Research and development expenditures include salaries, contractor fees, building costs, utilities, administrative expenses and allocation of corporate costs and are expensed, net of contract reimbursements, when incurred. Research and development expenses, net of contract reimbursements, were $621million in 2011, $402million in 2010 and $362million in 2009. Contract reimbursements were $75million in 2011, $68million in 2010 and $92million in 2009.
Related Party Transactions In accordance with the provisions of various joint venture agreements, we may purchase products and components from our joint ventures, sell products and components to our joint ventures and our joint ventures may sell products and components to unrelated parties. Joint venture transfer prices to 89 Table of Contents CUMMINSINC. AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) NOTE 1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued) us may differ from normal selling prices. Certain joint venture agreements transfer product to us at cost, some transfer product to us on a cost-plus basis, and others transfer product to us at market value. Our related party sales are presented on the face of our Consolidated Statements of Income . Our related party purchases were not material to our financial position or results of operations.
RECENTLY ADOPTED AND RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS Accounting Pronouncements Recently Adopted In September 2011, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) amended its standards related to the testing of goodwill for impairment. The objective of this amendment is to simplify the annual goodwill impairment evaluation process. The amendment provides entities the option to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value as a basis for determining whether it is necessary to perform the two-step goodwill impairment test. The two-step impairment test is now only required if an entity determines through this qualitative analysis that it is more likely than not that the fair value of the reporting unit is less than its carrying value. The new rules become effective during interim and annual periods beginning after December15, 2011, however entities are permitted to early adopt the standard. We elected to early adopt the standard and applied the qualitative analysis to certain reporting units in our 2011 goodwill impairment testing process. Because the measurement of a potential impairment loss has not changed, the standard did not have a significant impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements .
In October 2009, the FASB amended its rules regarding the accounting for multiple element revenue arrangements. The objective of the amendment is to allow vendors to account for revenue for different deliverables separately as opposed to part of a combined unit when those deliverables are provided at different times. Specifically, this amendment addresses how to separate deliverables and simplifies the process of allocating revenue to the different deliverables when more than one deliverable exists. The new rules were effective for us beginning January1, 2011. This amendment did not have a significant impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements as multiple element arrangements are not material to our business.
In June 2009, the FASB amended its existing standards related to the consolidation of variable interest entities, which was effective for interim and annual fiscal periods beginning after November15, 2009. The new standard requires entities to analyze whether their variable interests give it a controlling financial interest of a variable interest entity (VIE) and outlines what defines a primary beneficiary. The new standard amends GAAP by: (a)changing certain rules for determining whether an entity is a VIE; (b)replacing the quantitative approach previously required for determining the primary beneficiary with a more qualitative approach; and (c)requiring entities to continuously analyze whether they are the primary beneficiary of a VIE among other amendments. The new standard also requires enhanced disclosures regarding an entity's involvement in a VIE. The only significant impact of the adoption of this standard was to deconsolidate Cummins Komatsu Engine Corporation (CKEC) as of January1, 2010 and to account for CKEC under GAAP for equity method investees. CKEC is an engine manufacturing entity jointly owned and operated by us and our equity partner. Prior to January1, 2010, we were deemed the primary beneficiary of this VIE due to the pricing arrangements of purchases and the substantial volume of purchases we made from the VIE. The impact of the deconsolidation on our Consolidated Statements of Income was minimal as all sales were eliminated in consolidation in the past. The most significant impacts on our Consolidated Balance Sheets were to 90 Table of Contents CUMMINSINC. AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) NOTE 1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued) decrease current assets by $9million, decrease long-term assets by $10million, increase investments and advances related to equity method investees by $11million and decrease noncontrolling interest by $11million in 2010.
Accounting Pronouncements Issued But Not Yet Effective In December 2011, the FASB amended its standards related to offsetting assets and liabilities. This amendment requires entities to disclose both gross and net information about instruments and transactions eligible for offset in the statement of financial position and instruments and transactions subject to an agreement similar to a master netting agreement. This information will enable users of the financial statements to understand the effect of those arrangements on its financial position. The new rules will become effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after January1, 2013, and interim periods within those annual periods. It is also required that the new disclosures are applied retrospectively for all comparative periods presented. We do not believe this amendment will have a significant impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements ; however we are currently evaluating the potential impacts to our footnote disclosures.
In June 2011, the FASB amended its rules regarding the presentation of comprehensive income. The objective of this amendment is to improve the comparability, consistency and transparency of financial reporting and to increase the prominence of items reported in other comprehensive income. Specifically, this amendment requires that all non-owner changes in shareholders' equity be presented either in a single continuous statement of comprehensive income or in two separate but consecutive statements. In addition, the standard also requires disclosure of the location of reclassification adjustments between other comprehensive income and net income on the face of the financial statements. The new rules are scheduled to become effective during interim and annual periods beginning after December15, 2011. In December 2011, the FASB deferred certain aspects of this standard beyond the current effective date, specifically the provisions dealing with reclassification adjustments. Because the standard only impacts the display of comprehensive income and does not impact what is included in comprehensive income, the standard will not have a significant impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements .
In May 2011, the FASB amended its standards related to fair value measurements and disclosures. The objective of the amendment is to improve the comparability of fair value measurements presented and disclosed in financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S.GAAP and International Financial Reporting Standards. Primarily this amendment changed the wording used to describe many of the requirements in U.S.GAAP for measuring fair value and for disclosing information about fair value measurements in addition to clarifying the Board's intent about the application of existing fair value measurement requirements. The new standard also requires additional disclosures related to fair value measurements categorized within Level3 of the fair value hierarchy and requires disclosure of the categorization in the hierarchy for items which are not recorded at fair value but fair value is required to be disclosed. The new rules will become effective during interim and annual periods beginning after December15, 2011. As of December31, 2011, we had no fair value measurements categorized within Level3. The only impact for us is expected to be the disclosure of the categorization in the fair value hierarchy for those items where fair value is only disclosed (primarily our debt obligations).
91 Table of Contents CUMMINSINC. AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) NOTE2. DIVESTITURES AND ACQUISITIONS Divestitures In the second quarter of 2011, we sold certain assets and liabilities of our exhaust business which manufactures exhaust products and select components for emission systems for a variety of applications not core to our other product offerings. This business was historically included in our Components segment. The sales price was $123million. We recognized a gain on the sale of $68million ($37million after-tax), which included a goodwill allocation of $19million. The gain was excluded from segment results as it was not considered in our evaluation of operating results for the year ended December31, 2011.
Sales for this business were $62million, $171million and $126million in 2011 (through closing), 2010 and 2009, respectively. Operating results for this business were approximately $9million, $22million and $11million in 2011 (through closing), 2010 and 2009, respectively.
During the fourth quarter of 2011, we sold certain assets and liabilities of our light-duty filtration business which manufactures light-duty automotive and industrial filtration solutions. The sales price was $90million and included a note receivable from the buyer of approximately $1million. There are no earnouts or other contingencies associated with the sales price. We recognized a gain on the sale of $53million ($33million after-tax), which included a goodwill allocation of $6million. The gain was excluded from segment results as it was not considered in our evaluation of operating results for the year ended December31, 2011.
Sales for this business were $64million, $74million and $54million in 2011 (through closing), 2010 and 2009, respectively. Operating results for this business were approximately $13million, $9million and $2million in 2011 (through closing), 2010 and 2009, respectively.
The assets and liabilities associated with these businesses have not been reclassified and separately presented in the 2010 Consolidated Balance Sheet as they are immaterial. We have entered into supply and other agreements with the operations that represent ongoing involvement and as such, the results of these operations have not been presented as discontinued operations.
Acquisitions On January4, 2010, we acquired the remaining 70percent interest in Cummins Western Canada (CWC) from our former principal for consideration of approximately $71million. We formed a new partnership with a new distributor principal where we own 80percent of CWC and the new distributor principal owns 20percent. The acquisition was effective on January1, 2010. The $71million of consideration consisted of: In millions Borrowings under credit revolver $ 44 Capital contributed by Cummins Inc.
10 Capital contributed by new principal, as described below 8 Funded from first quarter operations 9 Total consideration $ 71 The purchase price was approximately $97million as presented below. The intangible assets are primarily customer related and are being amortized over periods ranging from one to three years. The 92 Table of Contents CUMMINSINC. AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) NOTE2. DIVESTITURES AND ACQUISITIONS (Continued) acquisition of CWC was accounted for as a business combination, with the results of the acquired entity and the goodwill included in the Distribution operating segment as of the acquisition date. Distribution segment results also include a $12million gain in 2010, as we were required to re-measure our pre-existing 30percent ownership interest in CWC to fair value in accordance with GAAP. Net sales for CWC were $390million and $272million for 2011 and 2010, respectively, which were approximately two percent of our consolidated sales for both years.
The purchase price was allocated as follows: In millions Accounts receivable $ 31 Inventory 48 Fixed assets 45 Intangible assets 11 Goodwill 2 Other assets 2 Current liabilities (42 ) Total purchase price 97 Fair value of pre-existing 30percent interest (26 ) Consideration given $ 71 We provided a loan to our partner of approximately $8million to fund the purchase of his 20percent interest. The purchase transaction resulted in $8million of noncontrolling interest (representing our partner's 20percent interest) which was completely offset by the $8million receivable from our partner, reducing the noncontrolling interest impact to zero as of the acquisition date. The interest-bearing loan is expected to be repaid over a period of three to five years. The partner also has periodic options to purchase an additional 10 to 15percent interest in CWC up to a maximum of an additional 30percent (total ownership not to exceed 50percent).
In November 2010, we purchased a majority interest in a previously independent North American distributorship. The acquisition was accounted for under the purchase method of accounting and resulted in an aggregate purchase price of $27million. The assets of the acquired business were primarily accounts receivable, inventory and fixed assets. The transaction generated $1million of goodwill.
93 Table of Contents CUMMINSINC. AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) NOTE3. INVESTMENTS IN EQUITY INVESTEES Investments in and advances to equity investees and our ownership percentage are as follows: December31, In millions Ownership % 2011 2010 Dongfeng Cummins Engine Company, Ltd.
50% $ 131 $ 150 North American distributors 30% - 50% 127 114 Komatsu alliances 20% - 50% 115 91 Beijing Foton Cummins Engine Co. Ltd.
50% 87 38 Chongqing Cummins Engine Company, Ltd.
50% 71 78 Cummins-Scania XPI Manufacturing, LLC 50% 62 57 Tata Cummins, Ltd.
50% 49 49 Shanghai Fleetguard Filter Co., Ltd.
50% 29 25 Other Various 167 132 Total $ 838 $ 734 Equity, royalty and interest income from investees, net of applicable taxes, was as follows: For the years ended December31, In millions 2011 2010 2009 Distribution Entities North American distributors $ 134 $ 101 $ 100 Komatsu Cummins Chile, Ltda.
22 16 12 All other distributors 4 3 3 Manufacturing Entities Dongfeng Cummins Engine Company, Ltd.
80 99 33 Chongqing Cummins Engine Company, Ltd.
68 46 36 Shanghai Fleetguard Filter Co., Ltd.
15 12 7 Tata Cummins, Ltd.
14 14 5 Cummins Westport, Inc.
14 10 3 Valvoline Cummins, Ltd.
7 8 7 Komatsu manufacturing alliances 3 11 (2 ) Cummins MerCruiser Diesel Marine, LLC (3 ) (3 ) (10 ) Beijing Foton Cummins Engine Co., Ltd.
(7 ) (16 ) (5 ) All other manufacturers 24 20 7 Cummins share of net income 375 321 196 Royalty and interest income 41 30 18 Equity, royalty and interest income from investees $ 416 $ 351 $ 214 Distribution Entities We have an extensive worldwide distributor and dealer network through which we sell and distribute our products and services. Generally, our distributors are divided by geographic region with some of our distributors being wholly-owned by Cummins, some partially-owned and the majority 94 Table of Contents CUMMINSINC. AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) NOTE3. INVESTMENTS IN EQUITY INVESTEES (Continued) independently owned. We consolidate all wholly-owned distributors and partially-owned distributors where we are the primary beneficiary and account for other partially-owned distributors using the equity method of accounting.
North American Distributors Our distribution channel in North America includes 12 partially-owned distributors. Our equity interests in these nonconsolidated entities range from 30percent to 50percent. We also have more than a 50percent ownership interest in three partially owned distributors which we consolidate. While each distributor is a separate legal entity, the business of each is substantially the same as that of our wholly-owned distributors based in other parts of the world. All of our distributors, irrespective of their legal structure or ownership, offer the full range of our products and services to customers and end-users in their respective markets.
Komatsu Cummins Chile, Ltda.
Komatsu Cummins Chile, Ltda. is a joint venture with Komatsu America Corporation. The joint venture is a distributor that offers the full range of our products and services to customers and end-users in the Chilean market.
We also have 50percent equity interests in five other international distributors.
We are contractually obligated to repurchase new engines, parts and components, special tools and signage from our North American distributors following an ownership transfer or termination of the distributor. In addition, in certain cases where we own a partial interest in a distributor, we are obligated to purchase the other equity holders' interests if certain events occur (such as the death of the distributor principal or a change in control of Cummins Inc.). The purchase price of the equity interests is determined based on the fair value of the distributor's assets. Outside of North America, repurchase obligations and practices vary by region. All distributors that are partially-owned are considered to be related parties in our Consolidated Financial Statements .
Manufacturing Entities Our manufacturing joint ventures have generally been formed with customers and generally are intended to allow us to increase our market penetration in geographic regions, reduce capital spending, streamline our supply chain management and develop technologies. Our largest manufacturing joint ventures are based in China and are included in the list below. Our engine manufacturing joint ventures are supplied by our Components segment in the same manner as it supplies our wholly-owned Engine segment and Power Generation segment manufacturing facilities. Our Components segment joint ventures and wholly owned entities provide fuel system, filtration and turbocharger products that are used in our engines as well as some competitors' products. The results and investments in our joint ventures in which we have 50percent or less ownership interest are included in "Equity, royalty and interest income from investees" and "Investments and advances related to equity method investees" in our Consolidated Statements of Income and Consolidated Balance Sheets , respectively.
Dongfeng Cummins Engine Company, Ltd.
Dongfeng Cummins Engine Company, Ltd. (DCEC) is a joint venture in China with Dongfeng Automotive Co. Ltd., a subsidiary of Dongfeng Motor Corporation (Dongfeng), one of the largest medium-duty and heavy-duty truck manufacturers in China. DCEC produces Cummins four- to 13-liter mechanical engines, full-electronic diesel engines, with a power range from 125 to 545horsepower, and natural gas engines.
Chongqing Cummins Engine Company, Ltd.
Chongqing Cummins Engine Company, Ltd. (CCEC) is a joint venture in China with Chongqing Machinery and Electric Co. Ltd. This joint venture 95 Table of Contents CUMMINSINC. AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) NOTE3. INVESTMENTS IN EQUITY INVESTEES (Continued) manufactures several models of our heavy-duty and high-horsepower diesel engines, primarily serving the industrial and stationary power markets in China.
Shanghai Fleetguard Filter Co., Ltd.
Shanghai Fleetguard Filter Co., Ltd. is a joint venture in China with Dongfeng that manufactures filtration systems.
Tata Cummins Ltd.
Tata Cummins Ltd. is a joint venture in India with Tata Motors Ltd., the largest automotive company in India and a member of the Tata group of companies. This joint venture manufactures the engines in India for use in trucks manufactured by Tata Motors, as well as for various industrial and power generation applications.
Cummins Westport, Inc.
Cummins Westport, Inc. is a joint venture in Canada with Westport Innovations Inc. to market and sell automotive spark-ignited natural gas engines worldwide and to participate in joint technology projects on low-emission technologies.
Valvoline Cummins, Ltd.
Valvoline Cummins, Ltd. is a joint venture in India with Ashland Inc., USA. This joint venture manufactures and distributes lubricants and oil related products in India which are used in automotive and industrial applications. Products include transmission fluids, hydraulic lubricants, automotive filters, cooling system products, greases and specialty products.
Komatsu manufacturing alliances Komatsu manufacturing alliances consists of two manufacturing joint ventures and one design joint venture including Komatsu Cummins Engine Company (KCEC) in Japan and Cummins Komatsu Engine Company (CKEC) in the United States (U.S.) with KomatsuLtd. These joint ventures manufacture Cummins-designed medium-duty engines in Japan and Komatsu-designed high-horsepower engines in the U.S. The industrial engine design joint venture is located in Japan.
Cummins MerCruiser Diesel Marine, LLC Cummins MerCruiser Diesel Marine, LLC (CMD) is a joint venture in the U.S. with Mercury Marine, a division of Brunswick Corporation, to develop, manufacture and sell recreational marine diesel products, including engines, sterndrive packages, inboard packages, instrument and controls, service systems and replacement and service parts and assemblies, complete integration systems and other related products. In the fourth quarter of 2011, Cummins Inc. and Mercury Marine announced a plan to dissolve their joint venture and to transition to a strategic supply arrangement between the two companies to more effectively and efficiently serve customers in the global diesel marine market. All business activities will move from CMD to the parent companies, with completion of the transition anticipated by mid-2012. CMD will conduct business as usual through the transition. Cummins will continue to use Mercury Marine drives and control systems in conjunction with its extensive offering of mid-range and heavy-duty marine engines. This move will leverage Cummins' strong global distribution footprint and create additional synergy with other Cummins recreational marine products, including marine generator sets offered under the Cummins Onan brand. The dissolution of the joint venture is not expected to have a significant impact on the financial results of Cummins.
Beijing Foton Cummins Engine Co., Ltd.
Beijing Foton Cummins Engine Co., Ltd. is a joint venture in China with Beijing Foton Motor Co., Ltd., a commercial vehicle manufacturer, which produces ISF 2.8liter and ISF 3.8liter families of Cummins high performance light-duty diesel engines in Beijing. These engines are used in light-duty commercial trucks, pickup trucks, multipurpose and sport utility vehicles. Certain types of marine, small construction equipment and industrial applications are also served by these engine families.
96 Table of Contents CUMMINSINC. AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) NOTE3. INVESTMENTS IN EQUITY INVESTEES (Continued) Equity Investee Financial Summary We have approximately $441million in our investment account at December31, 2011, that represents cumulative undistributed income in our equity investees. Summary financial information for our equity investees is as follows: As of and for the years ended December31, In millions 2011 2010 2009 Net sales $ 8,659 $ 7,107 $ 5,554 Gross margin 1,948 1,651 1,365 Net income 788 668 427 Cummins share of net income $ 375 $ 321 $ 196 Royalty and interest income 41 30 18 Total equity, royalty and interest income from investees $ 416 $ 351 $ 214 Current assets $ 2,892 $ 2,741 Non-current assets 1,440 1,253 Current liabilities (2,055 ) (1,837 ) Non-current liabilities (391 ) (499 ) Net assets $ 1,886 $ 1,658 Cummins share of net assets $ 855 $ 744 NOTE4. INCOME TAXES Years ended December31, In millions 2011 2010 2009 Income (loss) before income taxes: U.S. income $ 881 $ 242 $ (47 ) Foreign income 1,790 1,375 687 Total $ 2,671 $ 1,617 $ 640 97 Table of Contents CUMMINSINC. AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) NOTE4. INCOME TAXES (Continued) Income tax expense (benefit) consists of the following: Years ended December31, In millions 2011 2010 2009 Current U.S. federal and state $ 116 $ 11 $ 4 Foreign 524 410 147 Total current 640 421 151 Deferred: U.S. federal and state 69 49 (38 ) Foreign 16 7 43 Total deferred 85 56 5 Income tax expense $ 725 $ 477 $ 156 A reconciliation of the U.S. federal income tax rate of 35percent to the actual effective tax rate is as follows: Years ended December31, 2011 2010 2009 U.S. federal statutory rate 35.0 % 35.0 % 35.0 % State income tax, net of federal effect 0.4 0.6 (0.3 ) Research tax credits (4.7 ) (1.3 ) (2.4 ) Differences in rates and taxability of foreign subsidiaries and joint ventures (4.6 ) (4.7 ) (5.5 ) Other, net 1.0 (0.1 ) (2.4 ) Effective tax rate 27.1 % 29.5 % 24.4 % The effective tax rate for 2011 includes a net income tax benefit of $48million (net of additional reserves for uncertain tax positions of $41million) related to prior year refund claims filed for additional research tax credits, as well as additional foreign income and related foreign tax credits. Our effective tax rate for 2011 also includes a net income tax benefit of $19million related to the release of deferred U.S. tax liabilities on foreign earnings, as a result of restructuring our foreign operations. Also included in 2011 is a discrete tax benefit of $16million resulting from the reduction of our unrecognized tax benefits primarily due to settlements with taxing authorities. The 2011 income tax provision also includes other discrete tax items totaling to a $2million net tax charge, primarily relating to the enactment of state law changes in Indiana and the United Kingdom (U.K.) as well as adjustments to our income tax accounts based on our 2010 tax return filings.
Retained earnings of our U.K. domiciled subsidiaries and certain Singapore, German and Indian subsidiaries are considered to be permanently reinvested. The total permanently reinvested retained earnings and related cumulative translation adjustment balances for these entities were $1.5billion, $1.2billion and $0.8billion for the years ended December31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. These amounts were determined primarily based on book retained earnings balances for these subsidiaries 98 Table of Contents CUMMINSINC. AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) NOTE4. INCOME TAXES (Continued) translated at historical rates. The determination of the deferred tax liability related to these retained earnings and cumulative translation adjustment balances which are considered to be permanently reinvested outside the U.S. is not practicable. We may periodically repatriate a portion of these earnings to the extent we can do so essentially tax-free or at minimal tax cost.
For our remaining subsidiary companies and joint ventures outside the U.S., we provide for the additional taxes that would be due upon the dividend distribution of the income of those foreign subsidiaries and joint ventures assuming the full utilization of foreign tax credits. Deferred taxes on unremitted earnings of foreign subsidiaries and joint ventures, including those in China, were $222million and $217million at December31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. We have $693million of retained earnings and related cumulative translation adjustments in our China operations as of December31, 2011, and have provided a U.S. deferred tax liability of $172million related to these earnings that will be distributed to the U.S. in the future as well as the related translation impacts as of December31, 2011. Earnings of our China operations for periods beginning after December31, 2011 will be considered to be permanently reinvested and additional U.S. deferred tax will not be provided on these future earnings. These future earnings are expected to be used for capital expenditures and to fund joint ventures in China. During 2010, we released $3million of U.S. deferred tax liabilities related to prior years unremitted income of certain German and Indian subsidiaries of our U.K. group now considered to also be permanently reinvested. Income before income taxes includes equity income of foreign joint ventures of $234million, $218million and $117million for the years ended December31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. This equity income is recorded net of foreign taxes. Additional U.S. income taxes of $49million, $50million and $31million for the years ended December31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, were provided for the additional U.S. taxes that will ultimately be due upon the distribution of the foreign joint venture equity income.
99 Table of Contents CUMMINSINC. AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) NOTE4. INCOME TAXES (Continued) Carryforward tax benefits and the tax effect of temporary differences between financial and tax reporting that give rise to net deferred tax assets are as follows: December31, In millions 2011 2010 Deferred tax asset: U.S. federal and state carryforward benefits $ 86 $ 106 Foreign carryforward benefits 42 33 Employee benefit plans 334 342 Warranty and marketing expenses 302 300 Deferred research and development expenses 6 20 Accrued expenses 73 86 Other 47 37 Gross deferred tax assets 890 924 Valuation allowance (71 ) (50 ) Total deferred tax assets 819 874 Deferred tax liabilities: Property, plant and equipment (158 ) (145 ) Unremitted income of foreign subsidiaries and joint ventures (222 ) (217 ) Other (22 ) (1 ) Total deferred tax liabilities (402 ) (363 ) Net deferred tax assets $ 417 $ 511 Our 2011 U.S. federal and state carryforward benefits include $86million of state credit and net operating loss carryforward benefits that begin to expire in 2012. Our foreign carryforward benefits include $42million of net operating loss carryforwards that begin to expire in 2013. A valuation allowance is recorded to reduce the gross deferred tax assets to an amount we believe is more likely than not to be realized. The valuation allowance increased in 2011 by a net $21million and increased in 2010 by a net $6million. The valuation allowance is primarily attributable to the uncertainty regarding the realization of a portion of the U.S. state and foreign net operating loss and tax credit carryforward benefits. Other assets includes deferred tax assets of $167million and $203million for the years ended December31, 2011 and 2010. Other liabilities and deferred revenue includes deferred tax liabilities of $18million and $6million for the years ended December31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.
100 Table of Contents CUMMINSINC. AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) NOTE4. INCOME TAXES (Continued) A reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount of unrecognized tax benefits is as follows: In millions Balance at December31, 2008 $ 57 Additions based on tax positions related to the current year 1 Additions based on tax positions related to the prior years 4 Reductions for tax positions related to prior years (3 ) Reductions for tax positions relating to settlements with taxing authorities (5 ) Effects of foreign currency translations 2 Balance at December31, 2009 $ 56 Additions based on tax positions related to the current year 2 Additions based on tax positions related to the prior years 35 Reductions for tax positions related to prior years (5 ) Reductions for tax positions relating to lapse of statute of limitations (3 ) Balance at December31, 2010 $ 85 Additions based on tax positions related to the current year 5 Additions based on tax positions related to the prior years 44 Reductions for tax positions related to prior years (3 ) Reductions for tax positions relating to settlements with taxing authorities (39 ) Reductions for tax positions relating to lapse of statute of limitations (6 ) Balance at December31, 2011 $ 86 Included in the December31, 2011 and 2010, balances are $75million and $33million related to tax positions that, if recognized, would favorably impact the effective tax rate in future periods. Also, we had accrued interest expense related to the unrecognized tax benefits of $7million, $30million and $22million as of December31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. We recognize potential accrued interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits in income tax expense. During the years ending December31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, we recognized $(15) million, $5million and $4million in net interest expense, respectively. In 2011, as a result of the settlement of certain tax positions with tax authorities in China, we reduced our liability for unrecognized tax benefits by $39million and the related net accrued interest of $16million. The $39million reduction was fully offset by adjustments to other income tax balance sheet accounts resulting in zero net income statement impact. As the settlement with the tax authorities included no interest or penalties being incurred, we recognized a $16million income tax benefit in 2011 from the release of the accrued interest previously recorded related to the unrecognized tax benefits that were settled.
Audit outcomes and the timing of audit settlements are subject to significant uncertainty. Although we believe that adequate provision has been made for such issues, there is the possibility that the ultimate resolution of such issues could have an adverse effect on our earnings. Conversely, if these issues are resolved favorably in the future, the related provision would be reduced, thus having a positive impact on earnings. We do not expect any significant change to our unrecognized tax benefits within the next year.
As a result of our global operations, we file income tax returns in various jurisdictions including U.S. federal, state and foreign jurisdictions. We are routinely subject to examination by taxing authorities throughout the world, including Australia, Belgium, Brazil, Canada, China, France, India, Mexico, the U.K. and the U.S. With few exceptions, our U.S. federal, major state and foreign jurisdictions are no longer subject to income tax examinations for years before 2005.
101 Table of Contents CUMMINSINC. AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) NOTE 5. MARKETABLE SECURITIES A summary of marketable securities, all of which are classified as current, is as follows: December31, 2011 2010 In millions Cost Gross unrealized gains/(losses) Estimated fair value Cost Gross unrealized gains/(losses) Estimated fair value Available-for-sale Debt mutual funds $ 115 $ 2 $ 117 $ 179 $ 1 $ 180 Bank debentures 82  82 85  85 Certificates of deposit 66  66 59  59 Government debt securitiesnon-U.S.
3  3 4 (1 ) 3 Corporate debt securities 2  2 2  2 Equity securities and other  7 7  10 10 Total marketable securities $ 268 $ 9 $ 277 $ 329 $ 10 $ 339 Proceeds from sales and maturities of marketable securities were $ 750million, $ 690million and $335million in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Gross realized gains from the sale of available-for-sale securities were $3million for the year ended 2011, less than $1million for the year ended 2010 and $2million for the year ended 2009. Gross realized losses from the sale of available-for-sale securities were less than $1million for the years ended December31, 2011, 2010 and 2009.
At December31, 2011, the fair value of available-for-sale investments in debt securities by contractual maturity is as follows: Maturity date Fair value In millions 1year or less $ 29 1 - 5years 56 5 - 10years 1 After 10years 1 Total $ 87 NOTE 6. FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS In January 2010, the FASB amended its standards related to fair value measurements and disclosures, which were effective for interim and annual fiscal periods beginning after December15, 2009, except for disclosures about certain Level3 activity which did not become effective until interim and annual periods beginning after December15, 2010. The new standard requires us to disclose transfers in and out of Level1 and Level2 fair value measurements and describe the reasons for the transfers as well as activity in Level3 fair value measurements. The new standard also requires a more detailed level of disaggregation of the assets and liabilities being measured as well as increased disclosures regarding inputs and valuation techniques of the fair value measurements. The amended 102 Table of Contents CUMMINSINC. AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) NOTE 6. FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (Continued) standards do not require retroactive restatement of prior periods. The adoption did not materially impact our Consolidated Financial Statements .
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date (exit price). We utilize market data or assumptions that market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability, including assumptions about risk and the risks inherent in the inputs to the valuation technique. These inputs can be readily observable, market corroborated, or generally unobservable. We primarily apply the market approach for recurring fair value measurements and utilize the best available information. Accordingly, we utilize valuation techniques that maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs. We are able to classify fair value balances based on the observability of those inputs. The amended standards establish a fair value hierarchy that prioritizes the inputs used to measure fair value. The hierarchy gives the highest priority to unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities (Level1 measurement) and the lowest priority to unobservable inputs (Level3 measurement). The three levels of the fair value hierarchy defined by GAAP are as follows: Level1Quoted prices are available in active markets for identical assets or liabilities as of the reporting date. Active markets are those in which transactions for the asset or liability occur in sufficient frequency and volume to provide pricing information on an ongoing basis. Level1 primarily consists of financial instruments such as listed equities and publicly traded bonds.
Level2Pricing inputs are other than quoted prices in active markets included in Level1, which are either directly or indirectly observable as of the reported date. Level2 includes those financial instruments that are valued using models or other valuation methodologies. These models are primarily industry-standard models that consider various assumptions, including quoted forward prices for commodities, time value, volatility factors, and current market and contractual prices for the underlying instruments, as well as other relevant economic measures. Substantially all of these assumptions are observable in the marketplace throughout the full term of the instrument, can be derived from observable data or are supported by observable levels at which transactions are executed in the marketplace. Instruments in this category include non-exchange-traded derivatives such as over-the-counter forwards and options.
Level3Pricing inputs include significant inputs that are generally less observable from objective sources. These inputs may be used with internally developed methodologies that result in management's best estimate of fair value. At each balance sheet date, we perform an analysis of all instruments subject to fair value accounting under GAAP and include, in Level3, all of those whose fair value is based on significant unobservable inputs. At December31, 2011, we did not have any Level3 financial assets or liabilities, other than those in our pension plan (see Note12, "PENSION BENEFITS AND OTHER POST RETIREMENT BENEFITS").
The majority of the assets and liabilities we carry at fair value are available-for-sale (AFS) securities and derivatives. AFS securities are derived from Level1 or Level2 inputs. The predominance of market inputs are actively quoted and can be validated through external sources, including brokers, market transactions and third-party pricing services. The fair value measurement of derivatives results primarily from Level2 inputs. Many of our derivative contracts are valued utilizing publicly available pricing data of contracts with similar terms. In other cases, the contracts are valued using current spot market data adjusted for the appropriate current forward curves provided by 103 Table of Contents CUMMINSINC. AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) NOTE 6. FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (Continued) external financial institutions. We participate in commodity swap contracts, currency forward contracts and interest rate swaps. When material, we adjust the values of our derivative contracts for counter-party or our credit risk. There were no transfers into or out of Levels2 or 3 during 2011.
The following table summarizes our financial instruments recorded at fair value in our Consolidated Balance Sheets at December31, 2011: Fair Value Measurements Using In millions Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets (Level1) Significant other observable inputs (Level2) Significant unobservable inputs (Level3) Total Available-for-sale debt securities: Debt mutual funds $ 53 $ 64 $  $ 117 Bank debentures  82  82 Certificates of deposit  66  66 Government debt securities-non-U.S.
3  3 Corporate debt securities  2  2 Available-for-sale equity securities: Financial services industry 7   7 Derivative assets: Interest rate contracts  82  82 Total assets $ 60 $ 299 $  $ 359 Derivative liabilities: Commodity swap contracts  22  22 Foreign currency forward contracts  8  8 Total liabilities $  $ 30 $  $ 30 The substantial majority of our assets were valued utilizing a market approach. A description of the valuation techniques and inputs used for our Level2 fair value measures are as follows: Debt mutual funds Assets in Level2 consist of exchange traded mutual funds that lack sufficient trading volume to be classified at Level1. The fair value measure for these investments is the daily net asset value published on a regulated governmental website. Daily quoted prices are available from the issuing brokerage and are used on a test basis to corroborate this Level2 input.
Bank debentures and Certificates of deposit These investments provide us with a fixed rate of return and generally range in maturity from six months to three years. The counter-parties to these investments are reputable financial institutions with investment grade credit ratings. Since these instruments are not tradable and must be settled directly by Cummins with the respective financial institution, our fair value measure is the financial institutions' month-end statement.
Government debt securities-non-U.S. and Corporate debt securities The fair value measure for these securities are broker quotes received from reputable firms. These securities are infrequently traded on 104 Table of Contents CUMMINSINC. AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) NOTE 6. FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (Continued) a national stock exchange and these values are used on a test basis to corroborate our Level2 input measure.
Foreign currency forward contracts The fair value measure for these contracts are determined based on forward foreign exchange rates received from third-party pricing services. These rates are based upon market transactions and are periodically corroborated by comparing to third-party broker quotes.
Commodity swap contracts The fair value measure for these contracts are current spot market data adjusted for the appropriate current forward curves provided by external financial institutions. The current spot price is the most significant component of this valuation and is based upon market transactions. We use third-party pricing services for the spot price component of this valuation which is periodically corroborated by market data from broker quotes.
Interest rate contracts We currently have only one interest rate contract. We utilize the month-end statement from the issuing financial institution as our fair value measure for this investment. We corroborate this valuation through the use of a third-party pricing service for similar assets and liabilities.
The following tables summarize our financial instruments recorded at fair value in our Consolidated Balance Sheets at December31, 2010: Fair Value Measurements Using In millions Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets (Level1) Significant other observable inputs (Level2) Significant unobservable inputs (Level3) Total Available-for-sale debt securities: Debt mutual funds $ 75 $ 105 $  $ 180 Bank debentures  85  85 Certificates of deposit  59  59 Government debt securities-non-U.S.
3  3 Corporate debt securities  2  2 Available-for-sale equity securities: Financial services industry 10   10 Derivative assets: Commodity swap contracts  21  21 Interest rate contracts  41  41 Total assets $ 85 $ 316 $  $ 401 Fair value of foreign currency forward contacts and total derivative liabilities on our Consolidated Balance Sheets are not material.
105 Table of Contents CUMMINSINC. AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) NOTE 6. FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (Continued) Fair Value of Other Financial Instruments Based on borrowing rates currently available to us for bank loans with similar terms and average maturities, considering our risk premium, the fair value and carrying value of total debt, including current maturities, at December31, 2011 and December31, 2010, are set forth in the table below. The carrying values of all other receivables and liabilities approximated fair values.
December31, In millions 2011 2010 Fair value of total debt $ 901 $ 886 Carrying value of total debt 783 843 NOTE 7. INVENTORIES Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market. Inventories included the following: December31, In millions 2011 2010 Finished products $ 1,220 $ 1,019 Work-in-process and raw materials 1,019 1,048 Inventories at FIFO cost 2,239 2,067 Excess of FIFO over LIFO (98 ) (90 ) Total inventories $ 2,141 $ 1,977 NOTE 8. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT Details of our property, plant and equipment balance are as follows: December31, In millions 2011 2010 Land and buildings $ 1,001 $ 955 Machinery, equipment and fixtures 3,562 3,525 Construction in process 682 (1) 447 Property, plant and equipment, gross 5,245 4,927 Less: accumulated depreciation (2,957 ) (2,886 ) Property, plant and equipment, net $ 2,288 $ 2,041 (1) Construction in process includes $169million related to our future light-duty diesel engine platform.
106 Table of Contents CUMMINSINC. AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) NOTE 9. GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS The following table summarizes the changes in the carrying amount of goodwill for 2011 and 2010: In millions Components Power Generation Distribution Engine Total Goodwill at December31, 2009 $ 337 $ 13 $ 8 $ 6 $ 364 Additions   3  3 Translation and other 1 (1 )    Goodwill at December31, 2010 $ 338 $ 12 $ 11 $ 6 $ 367 Divestitures (25 )    (25 ) Translation and other (2 )  (1 )  (3 ) Goodwill at December31, 2011 $ 311 $ 12 $ 10 $ 6 $ 339 Intangible assets that have finite useful lives are amortized over their estimated useful lives. The following table summarizes our other intangible assets with finite useful lives that are subject to amortization: December31, In millions 2011 2010 Software $ 409 $ 389 Accumulated amortization (191 ) (179 ) Net software 218 210 Trademarks, patents and other 44 49 Accumulated amortization (35 ) (37 ) Net trademarks, patents and other 9 12 Total $ 227 $ 222 Amortization expense for software and other intangibles totaled $57million, $69million and $55million for the years ended December31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Internal and external software costs (excluding those related to research, re-engineering and training), trademarks and patents are amortized generally over a three to eight-year period. The following table represents the projected amortization expense of our intangible assets, assuming no further acquisitions or dispositions.
For the years ended In millions 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016-2017 Projected amortization expense $ 74 $ 54 $ 38 $ 26 $ 14 NOTE 10. DEBT Loans Payable Loans payable at December31, 2011 and 2010 were $ 28million and $ 82million, respectively, and consisted primarily of notes payable to financial institutions. The weighted-average interest rate for 107 Table of Contents CUMMINSINC. AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) NOTE 10. DEBT (Continued) notes payable, bank overdrafts and current maturities of long-term debt at December31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, was as follows: December31, 2011 2010 2009 Weighted average interest rate 4.19 4.76 5.61 For the years ended December31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, total interest incurred was $ 48million, $45million and $ 41million, respectively. For the same respective periods, interest capitalized was $4million, $ 5million and $ 6million.
Revolving Credit Facility On July16, 2010, we entered into a four-year revolving credit agreement with a syndicate of lenders. The credit agreement provides us with a $1.24billion senior unsecured revolving credit facility, the proceeds of which are to be used by us for working capital or other general corporate purposes.
The credit facility matures on July16, 2014. Amounts payable under our revolving credit facility will rank pro rata with all of our unsecured, unsubordinated indebtedness. Up to $150million under our credit facility is available for swingline loans denominated in U.S. dollars. Advances under the facility bear interest at (i)a base rate or (ii)a rate equal to the LIBOR Rate plus an applicable margin based on the credit ratings of our outstanding senior unsecured long-term debt. Based on our current long-term debt ratings, the applicable margin on LIBOR Rate loans was 1.75percent per annum as of December31, 2011. Advances under the facility may be prepaid without premium or penalty, subject to customary breakage costs.
The credit agreement includes various covenants, including, among others, maintaining a leverage ratio of no more than 3.0 to 1.0 and maintaining an interest coverage ratio of at least 1.5 to 1.0. As of December31, 2011, we were in compliance with both covenants.
The table below is a reconciliation of the maximum capacity of our revolver to the amount available under the facility as of December31, 2011. There were no outstanding borrowings under this facility at December31, 2011.
Revolving Credit Capacity at December31, In millions 2011 Maximum credit capacity of the revolving credit facility $ 1,240 Less: Letters of credit against revolving credit facility 37 Amount available for borrowing under the revolving credit facility $ 1,203 As of December31, 2011, we also had $300million available for borrowings under our international and other domestic short-term credit facilities. Commitments against the other domestic and international facilities were $28million as of December31, 2011 and $82million at the end of 2010.
108 Table of Contents CUMMINSINC. AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) NOTE 10. DEBT (Continued) Long-term Debt December31, In millions 2011 2010 Long-term debt: Export financing loan, 4.5%, due 2012 $ 31 $ 52 Export financing loan, 4.5%, due 2013 44 55 Debentures, 6.75%, due 2027 58 58 Debentures, 7.125%, due 2028 250 250 Debentures, 5.65%, due 2098 (effective interest rate 7.48%) 165 165 Other 90 56 638 636 Unamortized discount (36 ) (36 ) Fair value adjustments due to hedge on indebtedness 82 41 Capital leases 71 120 Total long-term debt 755 761 Less current maturities of long-term debt (97 ) (52 ) Long-term debt $ 658 $ 709 Principal payments required on long-term debt during the next five years are: Required Principal Payments In millions 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Payment $ 97 $ 59 $ 18 $ 17 $ 17 Interest on the 6.75% debentures is payable on February15 and August15 each year.
Interest on the $250million 7.125% debentures and $165million 5.65% debentures is payable on March1 and September1 of each year. The debentures are unsecured and are not subject to any sinking fund requirements. We can redeem the 7.125% debentures and the 5.65% debentures at any time prior to maturity at the greater of par plus accrued interest or an amount designed to ensure that the debenture holders are not penalized by the early redemption.
During 2010, two of our wholly-owned Brazilian subsidiaries entered into a loan agreement for a loan in local currency in an amount equivalent to US $50million, at drawdown, at a fixed rate of 4.5percent to finance its exports over the next three years. The principal of the loan has a two-year grace period and will begin amortizing in 2012.
In October 2009, one wholly-owned subsidiary, Cummins BrasilLtda, entered into a loan agreement with the Brazil development bank, BNDES, for a loan in local currency in an amount equivalent to US $45million, at drawdown, at a fixed rate of 4.5percent to finance its exports over the next three years. The principal of the loan had a two-year grace period and began amortizing in 2011.
Our debt agreements contain several restrictive covenants. The most restrictive of these covenants applies to our revolving credit facility which will upon default, among other things, limit our ability to incur additional debt or issue preferred stock, enter into sale-leaseback transactions, sell or create liens on our assets, make investments and merge or consolidate with any other person. In addition, we are subject to various financial covenants including a maximum debt-to-EBITDA ratio and a minimum interest coverage ratio. As of December31, 2011, we were in compliance with all of the covenants under our borrowing agreements.
109 Table of Contents CUMMINSINC. AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) NOTE 11. PRODUCT WARRANTY LIABILITY We charge the estimated costs of warranty programs, other than product recalls, to income at the time products are shipped to customers. We use historical claims experience to develop the estimated liability. We review product recall programs on a quarterly basis and, if necessary, record a liability when we commit to an action or when they become probable and estimable, which is reflected in the provision for warranties issued line. We also sell extended warranty coverage on several engines. The following is a tabular reconciliation of the product warranty liability, including the deferred revenue related to our extended warranty coverage and accrued recall programs: December31, In millions 2011 2010 Balance, beginning of year $ 980 $ 989 Provision for warranties issued 428 401 Deferred revenue on extended warranty contracts sold 124 105 Payments (409 ) (421 ) Amortization of deferred revenue on extended warranty contracts (95 ) (86 ) Changes in estimates for pre-existing warranties (7 ) (7 ) Foreign currency translation (7 ) (1 ) Balance, end of year $ 1,014 $ 980 Warranty related deferred revenue, supplier recovery receivables and the long-term portion of the warranty liability on our Consolidated Balance Sheets were as follows: December31, In millions 2011 2010 Balance Sheet Locations Deferred revenue related to extended coverage programs: Current portion $ 103 $ 91 Deferred revenue Long-term portion 210 193 Other liabilities and deferred revenue Total $ 313 $ 284 Receivables related to estimated supplier recoveries: Current portion $ 7 $ 7 Trade and other receivables Long-term portion 7 5 Other assets Total $ 14 $ 12 Long-term portion of warranty liability $ 279 $ 275 Other liabilities and deferred revenue NOTE 12. PENSION AND OTHER POSTRETIREMENT BENEFITS PENSION PLANS We sponsor several contributory and noncontributory pension plans covering substantially all employees. Generally, hourly employee pension benefits are earned based on years of service and compensation during active employment while future benefits for salaried employees are determined 110 Table of Contents CUMMINSINC. AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) NOTE 12. PENSION AND OTHER POSTRETIREMENT BENEFITS (Continued) using a cash balance formula. However, the level of benefits and terms of vesting may vary among plans. Pension plan assets are administered by trustees and are principally invested in equity securities and fixed income securities. It is our policy to make contributions to our various qualified plans in accordance with statutory and contractual funding requirements and any additional contributions we determine are appropriate.
111 Table of Contents CUMMINSINC. AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) NOTE 12. PENSION AND OTHER POSTRETIREMENT BENEFITS (Continued) Obligations, Assets and Funded Status The following tables present the changes in the benefit obligations and the various plan assets, the funded status of the plans, and the amounts recognized in our Consolidated Balance Sheets for our significant pension plans. Non-U.S. plans represent plans sponsored in the U.K. Benefit obligation balances presented below reflect the projected benefit obligation (PBO) for our pension plans.
Qualified and Non-Qualified Pension Plans U.S. Plans Non-U.S. Plans In millions 2011 2010 2011 2010 Change in benefit obligation Benefit obligation at beginning of year $ 2,110 $ 2,053 $ 1,013 $ 1,075 Service cost 51 45 20 19 Interest cost 109 111 58 58 Plan participants' contributions   1 1 Actuarial losses (gains) 126 53 82 (57 ) Benefits paid from fund (146 ) (144 ) (39 ) (37 ) Benefits paid directly by employer (8 ) (9 )   Exchange rate changes   (7 ) (46 ) Other 1 1   Benefit obligation at end of year $ 2,243 $ 2,110 $ 1,128 $ 1,013 Change in plan assets Fair value of plan assets at beginning of year $ 1,906 $ 1,677 $ 1,088 $ 929 Actual return on plan assets 231 273 65 121 Employer contributions 100 100 91 112 Plan participants' contributions   1 1 Benefits paid (146 ) (144 ) (39 ) (37 ) Exchange rate changes   (6 ) (39 ) Other    1 Fair value of plan assets at end of year $ 2,091 $ 1,906 $ 1,200 $ 1,088 Funded status (including underfunded and nonfunded plans) at end of year $ (152 ) $ (204 ) $ 72 $ 75 Amounts recognized in consolidated balance sheets Other assetslong term assets $ 63 $  $ 72 $ 75 Accrued compensation, benefits and retirement costs-current liabilities (10 ) (9 )   Pensions-long-term liabilities (205 ) (195 )   Net amount recognized $ (152 ) $ (204 ) $ 72 $ 75 Amounts recognized in accumulated other comprehensive loss consist of: Net actuarial loss $ 700 $ 692 $ 305 $ 227 Prior service (credit) cost (3 ) (5 ) 1 4 Net amount recognized $ 697 $ 687 $ 306 $ 231 112 Table of Contents CUMMINSINC. AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) NOTE 12. PENSION AND OTHER POSTRETIREMENT BENEFITS (Continued) In addition to the pension plans in the above table, we also maintain less significant defined benefit pension plans in 13 other countries outside the U.S. and the U.K. that comprise less than twopercent and fourpercent of our pension plan assets and obligations, respectively. These plans are reflected in "Other liabilities and deferred revenue" on our Consolidated Balance Sheets .
The following table presents information regarding total accumulated benefit obligation and underfunded pension plans that are included in the preceding table: Qualified and Non-Qualified Pension Plans U.S. Plans Non-U.S. Plans In millions 2011 2010 2011 2010 Total accumulated benefit obligation $ 2,211 $ 2,087 $ 1,027 $ 937 Plans with accumulated benefit obligation in excess of plan assets: Accumulated benefit obligation 185 2,087   Fair value of plan assets  1,906   Plans with projected benefit obligation in excess of plan assets: Projected benefit obligation 215 2,110   Fair value of plan assets 185 1,906   Components of Net Periodic Pension Cost The following table presents the net periodic pension cost under our plans: Qualified and Non-Qualified Pension Plans U.S. Plans Non-U.S. Plans In millions 2011 2010 2009 2011 2010 2009 Service cost $ 51 $ 45 $ 47 $ 20 $ 19 $ 18 Interest cost 109 111 115 58 58 57 Expected return on plan assets (151 ) (147 ) (142 ) (74 ) (71 ) (60 ) Amortization of prior service (credit) cost (1 ) (1 ) (1 ) 3 3 3 Recognized net actuarial loss 39 36 29 14 17 21 Net periodic pension cost before curtailments $ 47 $ 44 $ 48 $ 21 $ 26 $ 39 Curtailment loss   5   1 Net periodic pension cost $ 47 $ 44 $ 53 $ 21 $ 26 $ 40 113 Table of Contents CUMMINSINC. AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) NOTE 12. PENSION AND OTHER POSTRETIREMENT BENEFITS (Continued) Other changes in benefit obligations and plan assets recognized in other comprehensive income in 2011, 2010 and 2009 are as follows: In millions 2011 2010 2009 Amortization of prior service cost $ (2 ) $ (2 ) $ (2 ) Curtailments   (1 ) Recognized actuarial loss (53 ) (53 ) (50 ) Incurred prior service cost 1 1  Incurred actuarial (gain) loss 138 (181 ) 17 Foreign exchange translation adjustments  (12 ) 42 Total recognized in other comprehensive income $ 84 $ (247 ) $ 6 Total recognized in net periodic pension cost and other comprehensive income $ 152 $ (177 ) $ 99 The amounts in accumulated other comprehensive loss that are expected to be recognized as components of net periodic pension cost during the next fiscal year are as follows: In millions 2012 Prior service cost $ 1 Net actuarial loss 64 As disclosed in Note22, "RESTRUCTURING AND OTHER CHARGES," we executed restructuring actions in 2009. As a result, our pension benefit plans were remeasured and we recognized curtailment losses, as prescribed under GAAP pension standards, due to the significant reduction in the expected aggregate years of future service of the employees affected by the actions. In 2009, we recorded net curtailment losses of $5million and $1million for U.S. and non-U.S. plans, respectively, and $2million for our less significant plans in other countries outside the U.S. and the U.K. The curtailment losses include recognition of the change in the PBO and a portion of the previously unrecognized prior service cost reflecting the reduction in expected future service.
Assumptions The table below presents various assumptions used in determining the pension benefit obligation for each year and reflects weighted-average percentages for the various plans (Non-U.S. is the U.K.): Qualified and Non-Qualified Pension Plans U.S. Plans Non-U.S.
Plans 2011 2010 2011 2010 Discount rate 4.82 % 5.42 % 5.20 % 5.80 % Compensation increase rate 4.00 % 4.00 % 4.25 % 4.50 % 114 Table of Contents CUMMINSINC. AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) NOTE 12. PENSION AND OTHER POSTRETIREMENT BENEFITS (Continued) The table below presents various assumptions used in determining the net periodic pension cost and reflects weighted-average percentages for the various plans (Non-U.S. is the U.K.): Qualified and Non-Qualified Pension Plans U.S. Plans Non-U.S. Plans 2011 2010 2009 2011 2010 2009 Discount rate 5.42 % 5.60 % 6.20 % 5.80 % 5.80 % 6.20 % Expected return on plan assets 8.00 % 8.00 % 8.25 % 7.00 % 7.25 % 7.25 % Compensation increase rate 4.00 % 4.00 % 4.00 % 4.50 % 4.50 % 4.25 % Plan Assets Our investment policies in the U.S. and U.K. provide for the rebalancing of assets to maintain our long-term strategic asset allocation. We are committed to its long-term strategy and do not attempt to time the market given empirical evidence that asset allocation is more critical than individual asset or investment manager selection. Rebalancing of the assets has and continues to occur. The rebalancing is critical to having the proper weighting of assets to achieve the expected total portfolio returns. We believe that our portfolio is highly diversified and does not have any significant exposure to concentration risk. The plan assets for our defined benefit pension plans do not include any of our common stock.
U.S. Plan Assets For the U.S. qualified pension plans, our assumption for the expected return on assets was 8.0percent in 2011. Projected returns are based primarily on broad, publicly traded equity and fixed income indices and forward-looking estimates of active portfolio and investment management. We expect additional positive returns from this active investment management. Based on the historical returns and forward-looking return expectations, we have elected to use an assumption of 8.0percent per year beginning in 2012.
The primary investment objective is to exceed, on a net-of-fee basis, the rate of return of a policy portfolio comprised of the following: Asset Class Target Range U.S. equities 21.0 % +/-5.0 % Non-U.S. equities 8.0 % +/-4.0 % Global equities 16.0 % +/-4.0 % Total equities 45.0 % Real estate 7.5 % +2.5/-7.5 % Private equity 7.5 % +2.5/-7.5 % Fixed-income 40.0 % +/-5.0 % Total 100.0 % The fixed income component is structured to represent a custom bond benchmark constructed to closely represent the monthly change in the value of our liabilities. This component is structured in such a way that its benchmark covers approximately 70percent of the plan's exposure to changes in its 115 Table of Contents CUMMINSINC. AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) NOTE 12. PENSION AND OTHER POSTRETIREMENT BENEFITS (Continued) discount rate (AA corporate bond yields). In order to achieve a hedge on more than the targeted 40percent of plan assets invested in fixed income securities, the Benefits Policy Committee may permit the fixed income managers, other managers or the custodian/trustee to utilize derivative securities, as part of a liability driven investment strategy to further reduce the plan's risk of declining interest rates. However, all managers hired to manage assets for the trust are prohibited from using leverage unless specifically discussed with the committee and allowed for in their guidelines.
U.K. Plan Assets For the U.K. qualified pension plans, our assumption for the expected return on assets was 7.0percent in 2011. The methodology used to determine the rate of return on pension plan assets in the U.K. was based on establishing an equity-risk premium over current long-term bond yields adjusted based on target asset allocations. Our strategy with respect to our investments in these assets is to be invested in a suitable mixture of return-seeking assets (equities and real estate) and liability matching assets (bonds) with a long-term outlook. Therefore, the risk and return balance of our U.K. asset portfolio should reflect a long-term horizon. To achieve these objectives we have established the following targets: Asset Class Target Range Global equities 40.0 % +7.5/- 5.0 % Real estate 5.0 % +7.5/- 5.0 % Re-insurance 5.0 % +7.5/- 5.0 % Private equity 5.0 % +7.5/- 5.0 % Fixed-income 45.0 % +5.5/- 2.0 % Total 100.0 % As part of our strategy in the U.K. we have not prohibited the use of any financial instrument, including derivatives. Based on the above discussion, we have elected to use our assumption of 6.5percent per year beginning in 2012.
116 Table of Contents CUMMINSINC. AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) NOTE 12. PENSION AND OTHER POSTRETIREMENT BENEFITS (Continued) Fair Value of U.S. Plan Assets The fair values of U.S. pension plan assets at December31, 2011, by asset category are as follows: Fair Value Measurements as of December31, 2011 In millions Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets (Level1) Significant other observable inputs (Level2) Significant unobservable inputs (Level3) Total Equities U.S.
$ 95 $ 511 $  $ 606 Non-U.S.
149 168  317 Fixed Income Government debt 336 101  437 Corporate debt U.S.
245 115  360 Non-U.S.
54   54 Asset/mortgaged backed securities 11   11 Net cash equivalents(1) 59   59 Derivative instruments(2)  4  4 Private equity and real estate(3)   266 266 Total $ 949 $ 899 $ 266 $ 2,114 Pending trade/purchases/sales (30 ) Accruals(4) 7 Total $ 2,091 (1) Cash equivalents include commercial paper, short-term government/agency, mortgage and credit instruments.
(2) Derivative instruments include interest rate swaps, foreign currency forward contracts and credit default swaps.
(3) The investments in private equity and real estate funds, for which quoted market prices are not available, are valued at their estimated fair value as determined by applicable investment managers or by audited financial statement of the funds.
(4) Interest or dividends that had not settled as of December31, 2011.
117 Table of Contents CUMMINSINC. AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) NOTE 12. PENSION AND OTHER POSTRETIREMENT BENEFITS (Continued) The fair values of U.S. pension plan assets at December31, 2010, by asset category are as follows: Fair Value Measurements as of December31, 2010 In millions Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets (Level1) Significant other observable inputs (Level2) Significant unobservable inputs (Level3) Total Equities U.S.
$ 71 $ 458 $  $ 529 Non-U.S.
133 239  372 Fixed Income Government debt 345 73  418 Corporate debt U.S.
192 101  293 Non-U.S.
43   43 Asset/mortgaged backed securities 13   13 Net cash equivalents(1) 25   25 Derivative instruments(2)  1  1 Private equity and real estate(3)   208 208 Total $ 822 $ 872 $ 208 $ 1,902 Pending trade/purchases/sales (2 ) Accruals(4) 6 Total $ 1,906 (1) Cash equivalents include commercial paper, short-term government/agency, mortgage and credit instruments.
(2) Derivative instruments include interest rate swaps, foreign currency forward contracts and credit default swaps.
(3) The investments in private equity and real estate funds, for which quoted market prices are not available, are valued at their estimated fair value as determined by applicable investment managers or by audited financial statement of the funds.
(4) Interest or dividends that had not settled as of December31, 2010.
118 Table of Contents CUMMINSINC. AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) NOTE 12. PENSION AND OTHER POSTRETIREMENT BENEFITS (Continued) The reconciliation of Level3 assets is as follows: Fair Value Measurements as of December31, Using Significant Unobservable Inputs (Level3) In millions Private Equity Real Estate Total Ending balance at December31, 2009 $ 104 $ 35 $ 139 Actual return on plan assets: Unrealized (losses) gains on assets still held at the reporting date 14 3 17 Purchases, sales and settlements 8 44 52 Ending balance at December31, 2010 $ 126 $ 82 $ 208 Actual return on plan assets: Unrealized (losses) gains on assets still held at the reporting date 18 6 24 Purchases, sales and settlements 3 31 34 Ending balance at December31, 2011 $ 147 $ 119 $ 266 Fair Value of U.K. Plan Assets The fair values of U.K. pension plan assets at December31, 2011, by asset category are as follows: Fair Value Measurements as of December31, 2011 In millions Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets (Level1) Significant other observable inputs (Level2) Significant unobservable inputs (Level3) Total Equities U.S.
$  $ 239 $  $ 239 Non-U.S.
253  253 Fixed Income Government debt 162 311  473 Corporate debt U.S.
17 9  26 Non-U.S.
90 45  135 Asset/mortgaged backed securities 21   21 Net cash equivalents(1) 10   10 Derivatives instruments(4)  (5 )  (5 ) Re-insurance  56  56 Private equity and real estate(2)   47 47 Total $ 300 $ 908 $ 47 $ 1,255 Pending trade/purchases/sales (58 ) Accruals(3) 3 Total $ 1,200 (1) Cash equivalents include commercial paper, short-term government/agency, mortgage and credit instruments.
119 Table of Contents CUMMINSINC. AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) NOTE 12. PENSION AND OTHER POSTRETIREMENT BENEFITS (Continued) (2) The investments in private equity and real estate funds, for which quoted market prices are not available, are valued at their estimated fair value as determined by applicable investment managers or by audited financial statement of the funds.
(3) Interest or dividends that had not settled as of December31, 2011.
(4) Derivative instruments include interest rate swaps, foreign currency forward contracts and credit default swaps.
The fair values of U.K. pension plan assets at December31, 2010, by asset category are as follows: Fair Value Measurements as of December31, 2010 In millions Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets (Level1) Significant other observable inputs (Level2) Significant unobservable inputs (Level3) Total Equities U.S.
$  $ 139 $  $ 139 Non-U.S.
464  464 Fixed Income Government debt 100   100 Corporate debt U.S.
19   19 Non-U.S.
81 212  293 Asset/mortgaged backed securities 16   16 Net cash equivalents(1) 40   40 Private equity and real estate(2)   40 40 Total $ 256 $ 815 $ 40 $ 1,111 Pending trade/purchases/sales (26 ) Accruals(3) 3 Total $ 1,088 (1) Cash equivalents include commercial paper, short-term government/agency, mortgage and credit instruments.
(2) The investments in private equity and real estate funds, for which quoted market prices are not available, are valued at their estimated fair value as determined by applicable investment managers or by audited financial statement of the funds.
(3) Interest or dividends that had not settled as of December31, 2010.
120 Table of Contents CUMMINSINC. AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) NOTE 12. PENSION AND OTHER POSTRETIREMENT BENEFITS (Continued) The reconciliation of Level3 assets is as follows: Fair Value Measurements as of December31, Using Significant Unobservable Inputs (Level3) In millions Private Equity Real Estate Total Ending balance at December31, 2009 $ 4 $ 31 $ 35 Actual return on plan assets: Unrealized (losses) gains on assets still held at the reporting date 1 (2 ) (1 ) Purchases, sales and settlements 5 1 6 Ending balance at December31, 2010 $ 10 $ 30 $ 40 Actual return on plan assets: Unrealized (losses) gains on assets still held at the reporting date 2  2 Purchases, sales and settlements 2 3 5 Ending balance at December31, 2011 $ 14 $ 33 $ 47 The investments in private equity and real estate funds, for which quoted market prices are not available, are valued at their estimated fair value as determined by applicable investment managers or by quarterly financial statements of the funds. These financial statements are audited at least annually. The fair value of all real estate properties, held in the partnerships, are valued at least once per year by an independent professional real estate valuation firm. Fair value generally represents the fund's proportionate share of the net assets of the investment partnerships as reported by the general partners of the underlying partnerships. Some securities with no readily available market are initially valued at cost, utilizing independent professional valuation firms as well as market comparisons with subsequent adjustments to values which reflect either the basis of meaningful third-party transactions in the private market or the fair value deemed appropriate by the general partners of the underlying investment partnerships. In such instances, consideration is also given to the financial condition and operating results of the issuer, the amount that the investment partnerships can reasonably expect to realize upon the sale of the securities and any other factors deemed relevant. The estimated fair values are subject to uncertainty and therefore may differ from the values that would have been used had a ready market for such investments existed and such differences could be material.
Estimated Future Contributions and Benefit Payments We plan to contribute approximately $130million to our defined benefit pension plans in 2012. The table below presents expected future benefit payments under our pension plans: Qualified and Non-Qualified Pension Plans In millions 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017-2021 Expected benefit payments $ 218 $ 211 $ 216 $ 219 $ 223 $ 1,157 121 Table of Contents CUMMINSINC. AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) NOTE 12. PENSION AND OTHER POSTRETIREMENT BENEFITS (Continued) Other Pension Plans We also sponsor defined contribution plans for certain hourly and salaried employees. Our contributions to these plans were $72million, $44million and $42million for the years ended December31, 2011, 2010 and 2009.
OTHER POSTRETIREMENT BENEFITS Our other postretirement benefit plans provide various health care and life insurance benefits to eligible employees, who retire and satisfy certain age and service requirements, and their dependents. The plans are contributory and contain cost-sharing features such as caps, deductibles, coinsurance and spousal contributions. Employer contributions are limited by formulas in each plan. Retiree contributions for health care benefits are adjusted annually and we reserve the right to change benefits covered under these plans. There were no plan assets for the postretirement benefit plans as our policy is to fund benefits and expenses for these plans as claims and premiums are incurred.
Obligations and Funded Status The following tables present the changes in the benefit obligations, the funded status of the plans and the amounts recognized in our Consolidated Balance Sheets for our significant other postretirement benefit plans. Benefit obligation balances presented below reflect the accumulated postretirement benefit obligations (APBO) for our other postretirement benefit plans.
In millions 2011 2010 Change in benefit obligation Benefit obligation at beginning of year $ 490 $ 504 Interest cost 24 27 Plan participants' contributions 10 10 Amendments  (1 ) Actuarial losses (gains) 18 14 Benefits paid directly by employer (59 ) (64 ) Benefit obligation at end of year $ 483 $ 490 Funded status at end of year $ (483 ) $ (490 ) Amounts recognized in consolidated balance sheets Accrued compensation, benefits and retirement costscurrent liabilities $ (51 ) $ (51 ) Postretirement benefits other than pensionslong-term liabilities (432 ) (439 ) Net amount recognized $ (483 ) $ (490 ) Amounts recognized in accumulated other comprehensive loss consist of: Net actuarial loss $ 66 $ 50 Prior service credit (6 ) (14 ) Net amount recognized $ 60 $ 36 122 Table of Contents CUMMINSINC. AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) NOTE 12. PENSION AND OTHER POSTRETIREMENT BENEFITS (Continued) Components of Net Periodic Other Postretirement Benefits Cost The following table presents the net periodic other postretirement benefits cost under our plans: In millions 2011 2010 2009 Service cost $  $  $ 1 Interest cost 24 27 29 Amortization of prior service credit (8 ) (8 ) (9 ) Other 1  (1 ) Net periodic other postretirement benefit cost before curtailments 17 19 20 Curtailment loss   6 Net periodic other postretirement benefit cost $ 17 $ 19 $ 26 Other changes in benefit obligations recognized in other comprehensive income in 2011, 2010 and 2009 are as follows: In millions 2011 2010 2009 Amortization of prior service credit $ 8 $ 8 $ 9 Incurred actuarial loss (gain) 16 14 17 Incurred prior service credit  (2 )  Other  1 (1 ) Total recognized in other comprehensive income 24 21 25 Total recognized in net periodic other postretirement benefit cost and other comprehensive income $ 41 $ 40 $ 51 The amounts in accumulated other comprehensive loss that are expected to be recognized as a component of net periodic other postretirement benefit cost during the next fiscal year is a prior service credit of $5million and an actuarial loss of $3million.
As disclosed in Note22, "RESTUCTURING AND OTHER CHARGES," we executed restructuring actions in 2009. As a result, our U.S. postretirement benefit plans were remeasured and we recognized curtailment losses, as prescribed under GAAP other postretirement benefit standards, due to the significant reduction in the expected aggregate years of future service of the employees affected by the actions. In 2009, we recorded net curtailment losses of $6million. The curtailment losses include recognition of the change in the APBO and a portion of the previously unrecognized prior service cost reflecting the reduction in expected future service.
Assumptions The table below presents assumptions used in determining the other postretirement benefit obligation for each year and reflects weighted-average percentages for our other postretirement plans: 2011 2010 Discount rate 4.70 % 5.20 % 123 Table of Contents CUMMINSINC. AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) NOTE 12. PENSION AND OTHER POSTRETIREMENT BENEFITS (Continued) The table below presents assumptions used in determining the net periodic other postretirement benefits cost and reflects weighted-average percentages for the various plans: 2011 2010 2009 Discount rate 5.20 % 5.60 % 6.20 % Our consolidated other postretirement benefit obligation is determined by application of the terms of health care and life insurance plans, together with relevant actuarial assumptions and health care cost trend rates. For measurement purposes, an 8.00percent annual rate of increase in the per capita cost of covered health care benefits was assumed in 2011. The rate was assumed to remain at 8.00percent for two years and then decrease on a linear basis to 5.00percent through 2019 and remain at that level thereafter. An increase in the health care cost trends of one percent would increase our APBO by $23million as of December31, 2011 and the net periodic other postretirement benefit expense for 2012 by $1million. A decrease in the health care cost trends of one percent would decrease our APBO by $19million as of December31, 2011 and the net periodic other postretirement benefit expense for 2012 by $1million.
The Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 was reflected in the APBO beginning December31, 2004, assuming we will continue to provide a prescription drug benefit to retirees that is at least actuarially equivalent to Medicare PartD and we will receive the federal subsidy. We received a subsidy of approximately $2million in 2011 and $4million in 2010.
Estimated Benefit Payments The table below presents expected benefit payments under our other postretirement benefit plans and also provides the Medicare subsidy receipts expected to be received: In millions 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017-2021 Expected benefit payments, net of Medicare PartD subsidypostretirement $ 51 $ 47 $ 46 $ 44 $ 42 $ 171 Medicare PartD subsidy 3      NOTE 13. OTHER LIABILITIES AND DEFERRED REVENUE Other liabilities and deferred revenue include the following: December31, In millions 2011 2010 Accrued warranty $ 279 $ 275 Deferred revenue 252 231 Accrued compensation 165 149 Other long-term liabilities 189 148 Other liabilities and deferred revenue $ 885 $ 803 124 Table of Contents CUMMINSINC. AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) NOTE 14. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES We are subject to numerous lawsuits and claims arising out of the ordinary course of our business, including actions related to product liability; personal injury; the use and performance of our products; warranty matters; patent, trademark or other intellectual property infringement; contractual liability; the conduct of our business; tax reporting in foreign jurisdictions; distributor termination; workplace safety; and environmental matters. We also have been identified as a potentially responsible party at multiple waste disposal sites under U.S. federal and related state environmental statutes and regulations and may have joint and several liability for any investigation and remediation costs incurred with respect to such sites. We have denied liability with respect to many of these lawsuits, claims and proceedings and are vigorously defending such lawsuits, claims and proceedings. We carry various forms of commercial, property and casualty, product liability and other forms of insurance; however, such insurance may not be applicable or adequate to cover the costs associated with a judgment against us with respect to these lawsuits, claims and proceedings. We do not believe that these lawsuits are material individually or in the aggregate. While we believe we have also established adequate accruals for our expected future liability with respect to pending lawsuits, claims and proceedings, where the nature and extent of any such liability can be reasonably estimated based upon then presently available information, there can be no assurance that the final resolution of any existing or future lawsuits, claims or proceedings will not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.
We conduct significant business operations in Brazil that are subject to the Brazilian federal, state and local labor, social security, tax and customs laws. While we believe we comply with such laws, they are complex, subject to varying interpretations and we are often engaged in litigation regarding the application of these laws to particular circumstances. In 2010, it was determined that we overpaid a Brazilian revenue based tax during the period 2004-2008. Our results include a recovery of $32million recorded in cost of sales ($21million after-tax) related to tax credits on imported products arising from an overpayment. This recovery has been excluded from segment results as it was not considered in our evaluation of operating results for the year.
In June 2008, four of our sites in Southern Indiana, including our Technical Center, experienced extensive flood damage. In October 2011, we received $40million from our insurance carriers to settle all outstanding 2008 flood claims. As a result, we recognized a gain of approximately $38million ($24million after-tax), net of any remaining flood related expenses, in "Other operating (expense) income, net" in our Consolidated Statements of Income .
U.S. Distributor Commitments Our distribution agreements with independent and partially-owned distributors generally have a renewable three-year term and are restricted to specified territories. Our distributors develop and maintain a network of dealers with which we have no direct relationship. Our distributors are permitted to sell other, noncompetitive products only with our consent. We license all of our distributors to use our name and logo in connection with the sale and service of our products, with no right to assign or sublicense the trademarks, except to authorized dealers, without our consent. Products are sold to the distributors at standard domestic or international distributor net prices, as applicable. Net prices are wholesale prices we establish to permit our distributors an adequate margin on their sales. Subject to local laws, we can generally refuse to renew these agreements upon expiration or terminate them upon written notice for inadequate sales, change in principal ownership and certain other reasons. Distributors also have the right to terminate the agreements upon 60-day notice without cause, or 125 Table of Contents CUMMINSINC. AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) NOTE 14. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES (Continued) 30-day notice for cause. Upon termination or failure to renew, we are required to purchase the distributor's current inventory, signage and special tools, and may, at our option purchase other assets of the distributor, but are under no obligation to do so.
Other Guarantees and Commitments In addition to the matters discussed above, from time to time we enter into other guarantee arrangements, including guarantees of non-U.S. distributor financing, residual value guarantees on equipment under operating leases and other miscellaneous guarantees of third-party obligations. As of December31, 2011, the maximum potential loss related to these other guarantees is $45million ($18million of which relates to the Beijing Foton guarantee discussed below and $19million relates to the Cummins Olayan Energy Limited guarantee discussed below).
We have arrangements with certain suppliers that require us to purchase minimum volumes or be subject to monetary penalties. The penalty amounts are less than our purchase commitments and essentially allow the supplier to recover their tooling costs in most instances. As of December31, 2011, if we were to stop purchasing from each of these suppliers, the aggregate amount of the penalty would be approximately $40million, of which $39million relates to a contract with an engine parts supplier that extends to 2013. We do not currently anticipate paying any penalties under these contracts. In addition, we also have a "take or pay" contract with an emission solutions business supplier requiring us to purchase approximately $73million annually from 2012 through 2018. These arrangements enable us to secure critical components.
In July 2008, Beijing Foton Cummins Engine Company, a 50percent owned entity accounted for under the equity method, entered into a line of credit agreement with a borrowing capacity of up to $190million (at current exchange rates). The line was used primarily to fund equipment purchases for a new manufacturing plant which went into production in June 2009. As a part of this transaction, we guaranteed 50percent of any outstanding borrowings up to a maximum guarantee of $95million (at current exchange rates). A portion of this debt was collateralized in April 2011 by the assets of BFCEC and no longer requires partner guarantees. As of December31, 2011, outstanding borrowings under this agreement were $129million and our guarantee was $18million (at current exchange rates). We recorded a liability for the fair value of this guarantee. The amount of the liability was less than $1million. The offset to this liability was an increase in our investment in the joint venture.
In February 2010, Cummins Olayan Energy Limited, a 49percent owned entity accounted for under the equity method, executed a four-year $101million (at current exchange rates) debt financing arrangement to acquire certain rental equipment assets. As a part of this transaction, we guaranteed 49percent of the total outstanding loan amount or $50million (at current exchange rates). As of December31, 2011, outstanding borrowings under this agreement were $39million and our guarantee was $19million (at current exchange rates). We recorded a liability for the fair value of this guarantee. The amount of the liability was less than $1million. The offset to this liability was an increase in our investment in the joint venture.
We have guarantees with certain customers that require us to satisfactorily honor contractual or regulatory obligations, or compensate for monetary losses related to nonperformance. These performance bonds and other performance-related guarantees were $81million and $78million as of December31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.
126 Table of Contents CUMMINSINC. AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) NOTE 14. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES (Continued) Indemnities Periodically, we enter into various contractual arrangements where we agree to indemnify a third-party against certain types of losses. Common types of indemnities include:  product liability and license, patent or trademark indemnifications,  asset sale agreements where we agree to indemnify the purchaser against future environmental exposures related to the asset sold and  any contractual agreement where we agree to indemnify the counter-party for losses suffered as a result of a misrepresentation in the contract.
We regularly evaluate the probability of having to incur costs associated with these indemnities and accrue for expected losses that are probable. Because the indemnities are not related to specified known liabilities and due to their uncertain nature, we are unable to estimate the maximum amount of the potential loss associated with these indemnifications.
Joint Venture Commitments As of December31, 2011, we have committed to invest an additional $82million into existing joint ventures with $74million to be funded in 2012.
Leases We lease certain manufacturing equipment, facilities, warehouses, office space and equipment, aircraft and automobiles for varying periods under lease agreements. Most of the leases are non-cancelable operating leases with fixed rental payments, expire over the next ten years and contain renewal provisions. Rent expense under these leases approximated: December31, In millions 2011 2010 2009 Rent expense $ 169 $ 146 $ 130 The following is a summary of the leased property under capital leases by major classes: Asset balances at December31, In millions 2011 2010 Building $ 69 $ 68 Equipment 110 106 Other 7 7 Less: Accumulated amortization (91 ) (74 ) Total $ 95 $ 107 Following is a summary of the future minimum lease payments due under capital and operating leases, including leases in our rental business discussed below, with terms of more than one year at 127 Table of Contents CUMMINSINC. AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) NOTE 14. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES (Continued) December31, 2011, together with the net present value of the minimum payments due under capital leases: In millions Capital Leases Operating Leases 2012 $ 35 $ 136 2013 19 90 2014 6 63 2015 6 48 2016 6 39 After 2016 22 121 Total minimum lease payments $ 94 $ 497 Interest (23 ) Present value of net minimum lease payments $ 71 In addition, we have subleased certain of the facilities under operating lease to third parties. The future minimum lease payments due from lessees under those arrangements are $1million per year for the years 2012 through 2016.
Sale and Leaseback Transaction Amendment and Extension During 2001, we entered into a sale-leaseback transaction with a financial institution with regard to certain heavy-duty engine manufacturing equipment. The lease was classified as an operating lease with a lease term of 11.5years, expiring June28, 2013. The financial institution created a grantor trust to act as the lessor in the arrangement. The financial institution owns all of the equity in the trust. The grantor trust has no assets other than the equipment and its rights to the lease agreement with us. The terms of the agreement contained a guarantee of the residual value of the equipment and in December 2003, the grantor trust (which acted as the lessor in the sale and leaseback transaction described above) was consolidated as a result of the adoption of new accounting standards for VIEs, due primarily to the existence of the residual value guarantee.
In February 2009, we amended the lease agreement to extend the lease for an additional two years to June 2015 and we removed the residual value guarantee. As a result of removing the residual value guarantee, we were no longer required to consolidate the grantor trust and we deconsolidated the trust in the first quarter of 2009. With the deconsolidation, we were required to account for the leasing arrangement with the trust as a capital lease. The deconsolidation of the trust had minimal impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements as the present value of the minimum lease payments (including the extension) approximated the amount that was reported as noncontrolling interest as of the date of the amendment. The reduction in noncontrolling interests and increase in our capital lease liabilities was $35million.
In September 2011, we purchased the leased assets from the lessor for approximately $48million. The amount exceeded the existing capital lease obligation by approximately $14million. This excess was recorded as an increase to the book value of those assets and is being depreciated over the estimated remaining useful life of approximately 10years.
128 Table of Contents CUMMINSINC. AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) NOTE 15. SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY Preferred and Preference Stock We are authorized to issue one million shares each of zero par value preferred and preference stock with preferred shares being senior to preference shares. We can determine the number of shares of each series, and the rights, preferences and limitations of each series. At December31, 2011, there was no preferred or preference stock outstanding.
Common Stock Changes in shares of common stock, treasury stock and common stock held in trust for employee benefit plans are as follows: In millions Common Stock Treasury Stock Common Stock Held in Trust Balance at December31, 2008 221.7 20.4 5.1 Shares acquired  0.4  Shares issued 0.9 (0.1 )  Employee benefits trust activity   (2.1 ) Other shareholder transactions (0.6 )   Balance at December31, 2009 222.0 20.7 3.0 Shares acquired  3.5  Shares issued 0.2 (0.2 )  Employee benefits trust activity   (0.9 ) Other shareholder transactions (0.4 )   Balance at December31, 2010 221.8 24.0 2.1 Shares acquired  6.4  Shares issued 0.4 (0.2 )  Employee benefits trust activity   (0.3 ) Balance at December31, 2011 222.2 30.2 1.8 Treasury Stock Shares of common stock repurchased by us are recorded at cost as treasury stock and result in a reduction of shareholders' equity in our Consolidated Balance Sheets . Treasury shares may be reissued as part of our stock-based compensation programs. When shares are reissued, we use the weighted-average cost method for determining cost. The gains between the cost of the shares and the issuance price are added to additional paid-in-capital. The losses are deducted from additional paid-in capital to the extent of the gains. Thereafter, the losses are deducted from retained earnings. Treasury stock activity for the three-year period ended December31, 2011, consisting of shares issued and repurchased is presented in our Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity .
In December 2007, the Board of Directors authorized the acquisition of up to $500million of our common stock, which was completed in February 2011.
129 Table of Contents CUMMINSINC. AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) NOTE 15. SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY (Continued) Repurchases under this plan by year were as follows: In millions (except per share amounts) Shares Purchased Average Cost Per Share Total Cost of Repurchases Remaining Authorized Capacity 2008 2.3 $ 55.49 $ 128 $ 372 2009 0.4 46.52 20 352 2010 3.5 68.57 241 111 2011 1.1 104.47 111  Total 7.3 $ 500 In February 2011, the Board of Directors approved a new share repurchase program and authorized the acquisition of up to $1billion of our common stock upon completion of the $500million program. In 2011, we made the following quarterly purchases under the repurchase programs as indicated: In millions (except per share amounts) For each quarter ended 2011 Shares Purchased Average Cost Per Share Total Cost of Repurchases Remaining Authorized Capacity December 2007, $500million repurchase program March27 1.1 $ 104.47 $ 111 $  February 2011, $1billion repurchase program March27 0.8 $ 99.14 $ 79 $ 921 June26 1.6 110.49 183 738 September25 1.9 89.55 173 565 December31 1.0 88.17 83 482 Subtotal 5.3 $ 97.26 $ 518 $ 482 Total 6.4 $ 98.46 $ 629 $ 482 Quarterly Dividends In July 2011, the Board of Directors approved a 52percent increase to our quarterly cash dividend on our common stock from $0.2625 per share to $0.40 per share. In July 2010, our Board of Directors approved a 50percent increase in our quarterly cash dividend on our common stock from $0.175 per share to $0.2625 per share. Cash dividends per share paid to common shareholders for the last three years were as follows: Quarterly Dividends 2011 2010 2009 First quarter $ 0.2625 $ 0.175 $ 0.175 Second quarter 0.2625 0.175 0.175 Third quarter 0.40 0.2625 0.175 Fourth quarter 0.40 0.2625 0.175 Total $ 1.325 $ 0.875 $ 0.70 130 Table of Contents CUMMINSINC. AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) NOTE 15. SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY (Continued) Total dividends paid to common shareholders in 2011, 2010 and 2009 were $255million, $172million and $141million, respectively. Declaration and payment of dividends in the future depends upon our income and liquidity position, among other factors, and is subject to declaration by our Board of Directors, who meet quarterly to consider our dividend payment. We expect to fund dividend payments with cash from operations.
Employee Benefits Trust In 1997, we established the Employee Benefits Trust (EBT) funded with common stock for use in meeting our future obligations under employee benefit and compensation plans. The primary sources of cash for the EBT are dividends received on unallocated shares of our common stock held by the EBT. The EBT may be used to fund matching contributions to employee accounts in the 401(k) Retirement Savings Plan (RSP) made in proportion to employee contributions under the terms of the RSP. In addition, we may direct the trustee to sell shares of the EBT on the open market to fund other non-qualified employee benefit plans. Matching contributions charged to income for the years ended December31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 were $28million, $21million and $13million, respectively. EBT shares sold on the open market and proceeds from those sales for the years ended December31, 2011 and 2010 were as follows: In millions 2011 2010 2009 EBT shares sold on open market  0.7 1.5 Proceeds from sale $  $ 58 $ 72 Employee Stock Ownership Plan Our ESOP Trust was established in 1989 for certain domestic salaried and non-bargained employees participating in our RSP. The ESOP had a note payable to us which was funded through future employer contributions to the ESOP Trust. In 2010, the debt was repaid and the ESOP became an unleveraged plan. There was no activity related to the ESOP Trust for the year ended December31, 2011.
During the plan years of 2010 and 2009, our total annual cash contributions and cash contributions from the EBT were $2million and $10million, respectively. These contributions were equal to the required principal and interest payments due under the ESOP notes. Dividends received on allocated ESOP shares were used to purchase shares of our common stock from the EBT. Those shares were allocated to the participant accounts. Compensation expense was recorded as shares were allocated to plan participants each year and reduced by the common stock dividends received by the ESOP Trust. Annual compensation expense for the plan years of 2010 and 2009 were $1million and $4million, respectively. Unearned compensation was included in CumminsInc. shareholders' equity and represented compensation expense which was recorded as the remaining shares were allocated to participants. All shares issued to the ESOP Trust were considered outstanding for purposes of computing earnings per share.
131 Table of Contents CUMMINSINC. AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) NOTE 16. OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS) Following are the items included in other comprehensive income (loss) and the related tax effects: In millions Before Tax Amount Tax (Provision) Benefit After Tax Amount Year ended December31, 2011 Change in pensions and other postretirement defined benefit plans $ (107 ) $ 29 $ (78 ) Foreign currency translation adjustments (120 ) 12 (108 ) Unrealized gain (loss) on marketable securities: Holding gain (loss) (3 ) 1 (2 ) Reclassification of realized gain (loss) to net income 3 (1 ) 2 Net unrealized gain (loss)    Unrealized gain (loss) on derivatives: Holding gain (loss) (26 ) 11 (15 ) Reclassification of realized gain (loss) to net income (22 ) 5 (17 ) Net unrealized gain (loss) (48 ) 16 (32 ) Other comprehensive income (loss) attributable to CumminsInc.
(275 ) 57 (218 ) Noncontrolling interests (38 )  (38 ) Total other comprehensive income (loss) $ (313 ) $ 57 $ (256 ) Year ended December31, 2010 Change in pensions and other postretirement defined benefit plans $ 207 $ (65 ) $ 142 Foreign currency translation adjustments 52 (25 ) 27 Unrealized gain (loss) on marketable securities: Holding gain (loss) 2  2 Reclassification of realized gain (loss) to net income    Net unrealized gain (loss) 2  2 Unrealized gain (loss) on derivatives: Holding gain (loss) 8 (3 ) 5 Reclassification of realized gain (loss) to net income (2 ) 1 (1 ) Net unrealized gain (loss) 6 (2 ) 4 Other comprehensive income (loss) attributable to CumminsInc.
267 (92 ) 175 Noncontrolling interests 12  12 Total other comprehensive income (loss) $ 279 $ (92 ) $ 187 Year ended December31, 2009 Change in pensions and other postretirement defined benefit plans $ 14 $ (4 ) $ 10 Foreign currency translation adjustments 95 (9 ) 86 Unrealized gain (loss) on marketable securities: Holding gain (loss) 2 (1 ) 1 Reclassification of realized gain (loss) to net income (2 ) 1 (1 ) Net unrealized gain (loss)    Unrealized gain (loss) on derivatives: Holding gain (loss) 81 (25 ) 56 Reclassification of realized gain (loss) to net income 25 (6 ) 19 Net unrealized gain (loss) 106 (31 ) 75 Other comprehensive income (loss) attributable to CumminsInc.
215 (44 ) 171 Noncontrolling interests 14  14 Total other comprehensive income (loss) $ 229 $ (44 ) $ 185 132 Table of Contents CUMMINSINC. AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) NOTE 17. STOCK INCENTIVE AND STOCK OPTION PLANS In September 2003, our shareholders approved the 2003 Stock Incentive Plan (the Plan), which replaced and succeeded the 1993 Stock Incentive Plan. The Plan, as amended most recently in January 2010, allows for the granting of up to 13.5million stock-based awards to executives and employees, of which one-half must be in the form of stock options or stock appreciation rights. Awards available for grant under the Plan include, but are not limited to, stock options, stock appreciation rights and stock awards.
Stock options are generally granted with a strike price equal to the fair market value of the stock on the date of grant, a life of 10years and a two-year vesting period. The strike price may be higher than the fair value of the stock on the date of the grant, but cannot be lower. Compensation expense is recorded on a straight-line basis over the vesting period beginning on the grant date. The compensation expense is based on the fair value of each option grant using the Black-Scholes option pricing model. Options granted to employees eligible for retirement under our retirement plan are fully expensed as of the grant date.
Stock options are also awarded through the Key Employee Stock Investment Plan (KESIP) which allows certain employees, other than officers, to purchase shares of common stock on an installment basis up to an established credit limit. Fifty stock options are granted for every even block of 100 KESIP shares purchased by the employee. The options granted through the KESIP program are considered awards under the Plan and are vested immediately. Compensation expense for stock options granted through the KESIP program is recorded based on the fair value of each option grant using the Black-Scholes option pricing model.
Performance shares are granted as target awards and are earned based on our return on equity (ROE) performance. A payout factor has been established ranging from zero to 200percent of the target award based on our actual ROE performance during a two-year performance period, for grants prior to 2011, and during a three-year performance period, for grants in 2011. Any shares earned under grants prior to 2011 are then restricted for one additional year. Employees leaving the company prior to the end of the restriction period forfeit any shares subject to the restriction period. Shares earned under grants in 2011 are not restricted for one year after they are earned because the performance period is three years. Compensation expense is recorded ratably over the period beginning on the grant date until the shares become unrestricted and is based on the amount of the award that is expected to be earned under the plan formula, adjusted each reporting period based on current information.
Restricted common stock is awarded from time to time at no cost to certain employees. Participants are entitled to cash dividends and voting rights. Restrictions limit the sale or transfer of the shares during a defined period. Generally, one-third of the shares become vested and free from restrictions after two years and one-third of the shares issued become vested and free from restrictions each year thereafter on the anniversary of the grant date, provided the participant remains an employee. Compensation expense is determined at the grant date and is recognized over the four-year restriction period on a straight-line basis.
Compensation expense (net of estimated forfeitures) related to our share-based plans for the year ended December31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 was approximately $40million, $20million and $20million, respectively. The excess tax benefit/(deficiency) associated with our share-based plans for the years ended December31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, was $5million, $10million and $(1) million, respectively. The total unrecognized compensation expense (net of estimated forfeitures) related to nonvested 133 Table of Contents CUMMINSINC. AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) NOTE 17. STOCK INCENTIVE AND STOCK OPTION PLANS (Continued) awards was approximately $39million at December31, 2011, and is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of less than two years.
The tables below summarize the activity in the Plan: Options Weighted-average Exercise Price Weighted- average Remaining Contractual Life (in years) Aggregate Intrinsic Value Balance at December31, 2008 440,080 $ 16.14 Granted 598,510 25.31 Exercised (117,830 ) 14.66 Forfeited (3,530 ) 25.05 Expired (20,400 ) 10.63 Balance at December31, 2009 896,830 $ 22.55 Granted 387,250 62.74 Exercised (195,530 ) 17.36 Forfeited (8,555 ) 41.54 Expired (6,400 ) 9.33 Balance at December31, 2010 1,073,595 $ 37.92 Granted 316,159 115.71 Exercised (134,520 ) 23.93 Forfeited (12,197 ) 57.68 Balance at December31, 2011 1,243,037 $ 59.02 7.29 $ 45,224,497 Exercisable, December31, 2009 376,450 $ 18.50 4.82 $ 10,709,436 Exercisable, December31, 2010 222,110 $ 26.36 5.40 $ 18,683,972 Exercisable, December31, 2011 721,210 $ 38.75 6.25 $ 37,526,500 The weighted-average grant date fair value of options granted during the years ended December31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, was $51.23, $27.45 and $10.57, respectively. The total intrinsic value of options exercised during the years ended December31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, was approximately $12million, $13million and $3million, respectively.
134 Table of Contents CUMMINSINC. AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) NOTE 17. STOCK INCENTIVE AND STOCK OPTION PLANS (Continued) The weighted-average grant date fair value of performance and restricted shares is as follows: Performance Shares Restricted Shares Shares Weighted-average Fair Value Shares Weighted-average Fair Value Nonvested at December31, 2008 2,206,486 $ 32.98 138,130 $ 27.51 Granted 440,168 31.67   Vested (1,382,720 ) 25.34 (68,264 ) 27.33 Forfeited (50,548 ) 47.40   Nonvested at December31, 2009 1,213,386 $ 40.63 69,866 $ 27.68 Granted 186,947 60.92 68,290 52.16 Vested (704,931 ) 38.62 (68,266 ) 27.33 Cancelled (200,324 ) 56.53   Forfeited (13,307 ) 30.98   Nonvested at December31, 2010 481,771 $ 45.10 69,890 $ 51.94 Granted 229,436 86.65 13,555 108.51 Vested (178,653 ) 48.03 (1,600 ) 42.61 Forfeited (7,163 ) 59.15   Nonvested at December31, 2011 525,391 $ 62.05 81,845 $ 61.49 The total fair value of performance shares vested during the years ended December31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 was $9million, $27million and $35million, respectively. The total fair value of restricted shares vested was less than $1million for the year ended December31, 2011 and $2million for each of the years ended December31, 2010 and 2009.
The fair value of each option grant was estimated on the grant date using the Black-Scholes option pricing model with the following assumptions: Years ended December31, 2011 2010 2009 Expected life (years) 5 5 5 Risk-free interest rate 1.87 % 2.26 % 2.55 % Expected volatility 55.39 % 54.23 % 50.55 % Dividend yield 1.3 % 1.4 % 1.5 % Expected life The expected life of employee stock options represents the weighted-average period the stock options are expected to remain outstanding based upon our historical data.
Risk-free interest rate The risk-free interest rate assumption is based upon the observed U.S. treasury security rate appropriate for the expected life of our employee stock options.
Expected volatility The expected volatility assumption is based upon the weighted-average historical daily price changes of our common stock over the most recent period equal to the expected option life of the grant, adjusted for activity which is not expected to occur in the future.
135 Table of Contents CUMMINSINC. AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) NOTE 17. STOCK INCENTIVE AND STOCK OPTION PLANS (Continued) Dividend yield The dividend yield assumption is based on our history and expectation of dividend payouts.
NOTE 18. NONCONTROLLING INTERESTS Noncontrolling interests in the equity of consolidated subsidiaries are as follows: December31, In millions 2011 2010 Cummins IndiaLtd.
$ 233 $ 247 Wuxi Cummins Turbo TechnologiesCo.Ltd.
75 60 Other 31 19 Total $ 339 $ 326 NOTE 19. EARNINGS PER SHARE We calculate basic earnings per share (EPS) of common stock by dividing net income attributable to CumminsInc. by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding for the period. The calculation of diluted EPS assumes the issuance of common stock for all potentially dilutive share equivalents outstanding. We exclude shares of common stock held in the EBT (see Note15, "SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY") from the calculation of the weighted-average common shares outstanding until those shares are distributed from the EBT to the RSP. Following are the computations for basic and diluted earnings per share: Years ended December31, Dollars in millions, except per share amounts 2011 2010 2009 Net income attributable to CumminsInc.
$ 1,848 $ 1,040 $ 428 Weighted-average commons shares outstanding: Basic 192,972,211 196,699,155 197,445,998 Dilutive effect of stock compensation awards 625,667 449,252 249,126 Diluted 193,597,878 197,148,407 197,695,124 Earnings per common share attributable to CumminsInc.
Basic $ 9.58 $ 5.29 $ 2.17 Diluted 9.55 5.28 2.16 The weighted-average diluted common shares outstanding for 2011, 2010 and 2009 excludes the effect of approximately 177,460, 7,795 and 53,750 weighted-average shares, respectively, of common stock options, since such options had an exercise price in excess of the monthly average market value of our common stock during that year.
136 Table of Contents CUMMINSINC. AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) NOTE 20. DERIVATIVES We are exposed to financial risk resulting from volatility in foreign exchange rates, commodity prices and interest rates. This risk is closely monitored and managed through the use of financial derivative instruments including foreign currency forward contracts, commodity swap contracts and interest rate swaps. As stated in our policies and procedures, financial derivatives are used expressly for hedging purposes, and under no circumstances are they used for speculative purposes. When material, we adjust the value of our derivative contracts for counter-party or our credit risk.
Foreign Exchange Rates As a result of our international business presence, we are exposed to foreign currency exchange risks. We transact business in foreign currencies and, as a result, our income experiences some volatility related to movements in foreign currency exchange rates. To help manage our exposure to exchange rate volatility, we use foreign exchange forward contracts on a regular basis to hedge forecasted intercompany and third-party sales and purchases denominated in non-functional currencies. Our internal policy allows for managing anticipated foreign currency cash flows for up to one year. These foreign currency forward contracts are designated and qualify as foreign currency cash flow hedges under GAAP. The effective portion of the unrealized gain or loss on the forward contract is deferred and reported as a component of "Accumulated other comprehensive loss" (AOCL). When the hedged forecasted transaction (sale or purchase) occurs, the unrealized gain or loss is reclassified into income in the same line item associated with the hedged transaction in the same period or periods during which the hedged transaction affects income. The ineffective portion of the hedge, unrealized gain or loss, if any, is recognized in current income during the period of change. As of December31, 2011, the amount we expect to reclassify from AOCL to income over the next year is an unrealized net loss of $6million. For the years ended December31, 2011 and 2010, there were no circumstances that would have resulted in the discontinuance of a foreign currency cash flow hedge.
To minimize the income volatility resulting from the remeasurement of net monetary assets and payables denominated in a currency other than the functional currency, we enter into foreign currency forward contracts, which are considered economic hedges. The objective is to offset the gain or loss from remeasurement with the gain or loss from the fair market valuation of the forward contract. These derivative instruments are not designated as hedges under GAAP.
The table below summarizes our outstanding foreign currency forward contracts. Only the U.S. dollar forward contracts are designated and qualify for hedge accounting as of each period presented 137 Table of Contents CUMMINSINC. AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) NOTE 20. DERIVATIVES (Continued) below. The currencies in this table represent 98percent and 97percent of the notional amounts of contracts outstanding as of December31, 2011 and December31, 2010.
Notional amount in millions Currency denomination December31, 2011 December31, 2010 United States Dollar (USD) 181 142 British Pound Sterling (GBP) 347 87 Euro (EUR) 47 46 Singapore Dollar (SGD) 20 17 Indian Rupee (INR) 1,701 1,275 Japanese Yen (JPY) 3,348 3,722 Canadian Dollar (CAD) 39 39 South Korea Won (KRW) 36,833 28,028 Chinese Renmimbi (CNY) 61 60 Commodity Price Risk We are exposed to fluctuations in commodity prices due to contractual agreements with component suppliers. In order to protect ourselves against future price volatility and, consequently, fluctuations in gross margins, we periodically enter into commodity swap contracts with designated banks to fix the cost of certain raw material purchases with the objective of minimizing changes in inventory cost due to market price fluctuations. Certain commodity swap contracts are derivative contracts that are designated as cash flow hedges under GAAP. We also have commodity swap contracts that represent an economic hedge, however do not qualify for hedge accounting and are marked to market through earnings. For those contracts that qualify for hedge accounting, the effective portion of the unrealized gain or loss is deferred and reported as a component of AOCL. When the hedged forecasted transaction (purchase) occurs, the unrealized gain or loss is reclassified into income in the same line item associated with the hedged transaction in the same period or periods during which the hedged transaction affects income. The ineffective portion of the hedge, if any, is recognized in current income in the period in which the ineffectiveness occurs. As of December31, 2011, we expect to reclassify an unrealized net loss of $11million from AOCL to income over the next year. Our internal policy allows for managing these cash flow hedges for up to three years.
The following table summarizes our outstanding commodity swap contracts that were entered into to hedge the cost of certain raw material purchases: December31, 2011 December31, 2010 Dollars in millions Commodity Notional Amount Quantity Notional Amount Quantity Copper $ 78 9,220 metric tons (1) $ 55 7,560 metric tons(1) Platinum 84 50,750 troy ounces (2) 11 9,157 troy ounces(2) Palladium 5 7,141 troy ounces (2) 1 1,763 troy ounces(2) (1) A metric ton is a measurement of mass equal to 1,000 kilograms.
(2) A troy ounce is a measurement of mass equal to approximately 31 grams.
138 Table of Contents CUMMINSINC. AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) NOTE 20. DERIVATIVES (Continued) Interest Rate Risk We are exposed to market risk from fluctuations in interest rates. We manage our exposure to interest rate fluctuations through the use of interest rate swaps. The objective of the swaps is to more effectively balance our borrowing costs and interest rate risk.
In November 2005, we entered into an interest rate swap to effectively convert our $250million debt issue, due in 2028, from a fixed rate of 7.125percent to a floating rate based on a LIBOR spread. The terms of the swap mirror those of the debt, with interest paid semi-annually. This swap qualifies as a fair value hedge under GAAP. The gain or loss on this derivative instrument as well as the offsetting gain or loss on the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk are recognized in current income as "Interest expense." The following table summarizes these gains and losses for the years presented below: For the years ended December31, 2011 2010 In millions Income Statement Classification Gain/(Loss) on Swaps Gain/(Loss) on Borrowings Gain/(Loss) on Swaps Gain/(Loss) on Borrowings Interest expense $ 41 $ (41 ) $ 16 $ (16 ) Cash Flow Hedging The following table summarizes the effect on our Consolidated Statements of Income for derivative instruments classified as cash flow hedges for the years ended December31, 2011 and 2010 presented below. The table does not include amounts related to ineffectiveness as it was not material for the periods presented.
For the years ended December31, Amount of Gain/(Loss) Reclassified from AOCL into Income (Effective Portion) Amount of Gain/(Loss) Recognized in AOCL on Derivative (Effective Portion) Location of Gain/(Loss) Reclassified into Income (Effective Portion) In millions Derivatives in Cash Flow Hedging Relationships 2011 2010 2011 2010 Foreign currency forward contracts Net sales $ (4 ) $ (5 ) $ 3 $ (6 ) Commodity swap contracts Cost of sales (22 ) 13 19 8 Total $ (26 ) $ 8 $ 22 $ 2 139 Table of Contents CUMMINSINC. AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) NOTE 20. DERIVATIVES (Continued) Derivatives Not Designated as Hedging Instruments The following table summarizes the effect on our Consolidated Statements of Income for derivative instruments that are not classified as hedges for the years ended December31, 2011 and 2010.
For the years ended December31, Amount of Gain/(Loss) Recognized in Income on Derivatives Location of Gain/(Loss) Recognized in Income on Derivatives In millions Derivatives Not Designated as Hedging Instruments 2011 2010 Foreign currency forward contracts Cost of sales $ (2 ) $ (3 ) Foreign currency forward contracts Other income (expense), net (14 ) 4 Commodity swap contracts Cost of sales (6 )  Fair Value Amount and Location of Derivative Instruments The following tables summarize the location and fair value of derivative instruments on our Consolidated Balance Sheets : Derivative assets Fair Value In millions December31, 2011 December31, 2010 Balance Sheet Location Derivatives designated as hedging instruments Commodity swap contracts $  $ 20 Prepaid expenses and other current assets Commodity swap contracts  1 Other assets Interest rate contract 82 41 Other assets Total derivative assets $ 82 $ 62 140 Table of Contents CUMMINSINC. AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) NOTE 20. DERIVATIVES (Continued) Derivative liabilities Fair Value In millions December31, 2011 December31, 2010 Balance Sheet Location Derivatives designated as hedging instruments Foreign currency forward contracts $ 7 $ 1 Other accrued expenses Commodity swap contracts 16  Other accrued expenses Total derivatives designated as hedging instruments 23 1 Derivatives not designated as hedging instruments Foreign currency forward contracts 1  Other accrued expenses Commodity swap contracts 6  Other accrued expenses Total derivatives not designated as hedging instruments 7  Total derivative liabilities $ 30 $ 1 NOTE 21. SALES OF ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE We have a trade receivables facility (subject to renewal annually) with a financial institution to sell trade receivables from time to time to Cummins Trade Receivables,LLC (CTR), a wholly-owned special purpose subsidiary, for the purpose of obtaining credit secured by such receivables from one or more commercial paper conduit and committed institutional lenders. To support outstanding advances under the agreement, we sell new receivables to CTR as they arise. Receivables sold to CTR are included in "Receivables, net" on our Consolidated Balance Sheets . The amount of aggregate advances that can be outstanding under the agreement at any point in time is limited to the lesser of $250million or, with certain adjustments, the amount of eligible receivables held by CTR. There are no provisions in the agreement that require us to maintain a minimum investment credit rating; however, the terms of the agreement contain the same financial covenants as our revolving credit facility. In accordance with FASB Standards for transfer of financial assets, any activity under our receivable sales program will be accounted for as secured borrowings. As of December31, 2011, the amount available under the agreement was $209million and no advances were outstanding under the agreement.
CTR is a separate legal entity from CumminsInc. and each of its affiliates and its assets and credit are not available to satisfy our debts or obligations or the debts and obligations of any other entity. CTR's assets are listed separately on its balance sheet on a stand-alone basis. CTR's assets will be available first and foremost to satisfy claims of its creditors.
141 Table of Contents CUMMINSINC. AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) NOTE 21. SALES OF ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE (Continued) No accounts receivable sold to CTR were written off during 2011, 2010 or 2009. The sold receivables servicing portfolio, which is included in receivables and the proceeds from the sale of receivables and other related cash flows are as follows: As of and for the years ended December31, In millions 2011 2010 2009 Sold receivables servicing portfolio $ 578 $ 416 $ 806 Receivables sold to special purpose subsidiary 5,802 3,877 5,424 Collections reinvested in special purpose subsidiary 5,640 4,267 5,270 Servicing fees and interest 2 4 3 NOTE 22. RESTRUCTURING AND OTHER CHARGES 2009 Restructuring Actions In 2009, we executed restructuring actions in response to a reduction in orders in most of our U.S. and foreign markets due to the deterioration in the global economy. We reduced our global workforce by approximately 1,000 professional employees. In addition, we took numerous employee actions at many of our manufacturing locations, including approximately 3,200hourly employees, significant downsizing at numerous facilities and complete closure of several facilities and branch distributor locations. Employee termination and severance costs were recorded based on approved plans developed by the businesses and corporate management which specified positions to be eliminated, benefits to be paid under existing severance plans, union contracts or statutory requirements and the expected timetable for completion of the plan. Estimates of restructuring costs were made based on information available at the time charges were recorded.
In response to closures and downsizing noted above, we incurred $2million of restructuring expenses for lease terminations and $5million of restructuring expenses for asset impairments. During 2009, we recorded a total pre-tax restructuring charge of $85million, comprising $90million of charges related to 2009 actions net of the $3million favorable change in estimate related to 2008 actions and the $2million favorable change in estimate related to earlier 2009 actions, in "Restructuring and other charges" in the Consolidated Statements of Income . These restructuring actions included: In millions Year ended December31, 2009 Workforce reductions $ 81 Exit activities 7 Other 2 Changes in estimate (5 ) Total restructuring charges 85 Curtailment loss 14 Total restructuring and other charges $ 99 142 Table of Contents CUMMINSINC. AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) NOTE 22. RESTRUCTURING AND OTHER CHARGES (Continued) In addition, as a result of the restructuring actions described above, we also recorded a $14million curtailment loss in 2009 in our pension and other postretirement plans. See Note12, "PENSION AND OTHER POST RETIREMENT BENEFITS," for additional detail.
At December31, 2010, of the approximately 4,200 employees affected by this plan, substantially all terminations were complete.
We do not include restructuring charges in our operating segment results. The pre-tax impact of allocating restructuring charges to the segment results would have been as follows: In millions Year ended December31, 2009 Engine $ 47 Components 35 Power Generation 12 Distribution 5 Total restructuring and other charges $ 99 The following table summarizes the balance of accrued restructuring charges by expense type and the changes in the accrued amounts for the applicable periods. The restructuring related accruals were recorded in "Other accrued expenses" in our Consolidated Balance Sheets .
In millions Severance Costs Exit Activities Other Total 2009 Restructuring charges $ 81 $ 7 $ 2 $ 90 Cash payments for 2009 actions (70 ) (1 )  (71 ) Non cash items  (5 ) (2 ) (7 ) Changes in estimates (2 )   (2 ) Translation 1   1 Balance at December31, 2009 $ 10 $ 1 $  $ 11 Cash payments for 2009 actions (7 )   (7 ) Changes in estimates (3 ) (1 )  (4 ) Balance at December31, 2010 $  $  $  $  NOTE 23. OPERATING SEGMENTS Operating segments under GAAP are defined as components of an enterprise about which separate financial information is available that is evaluated regularly by the chief operating decision-maker, or decision-making group, in deciding how to allocate resources and in assessing performance. Cummins chief operating decision-maker (CODM) is the Chief Executive Officer.
Our reportable operating segments consist of the following: Engine, Components, Power Generation and Distribution. This reporting structure is organized according to the products and markets each segment serves and allows management to focus its efforts on providing enhanced service to a wide range of customers. The Engine segment produces engines and parts for sale to customers in on-highway and various industrial markets. Our engines are used in trucks of all sizes, buses and recreational vehicles, as well as in various industrial applications, including construction, mining, 143 Table of Contents CUMMINSINC. AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) NOTE 23. OPERATING SEGMENTS (Continued) agriculture, marine, oil and gas, rail and military equipment. The Components segment sells filtration products, exhaust aftertreatment systems, turbochargers and fuel systems. The Power Generation segment is an integrated provider of power systems which sells engines, generator sets and alternators. The Distribution segment includes wholly-owned and partially-owned distributorships engaged in wholesaling engines, generator sets and service parts, as well as performing service and repair activities on our products and maintaining relationships with various OEMsthroughout the world.
We use segment EBIT (defined as earnings before interest expense, taxes and noncontrolling interests) as a primary basis for the CODM to evaluate the performance of each of our operating segments. Segment amounts exclude certain expenses not specifically identifiable to segments.
The accounting policies of our operating segments are the same as those applied in our Consolidated Financial Statements . We prepared the financial results of our operating segments on a basis that is consistent with the manner in which we internally disaggregate financial information to assist in making internal operating decisions. We have allocated certain common costs and expenses, primarily corporate functions, among segments differently than we would for stand-alone financial information prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP). These include certain costs and expenses of shared services, such as information technology, human resources, legal and finance. We also do not allocate debt-related items, actuarial gains or losses, prior service costs or credits, changes in cash surrender value of corporate owned life insurance, restructuring and other charges, flood damage gains or losses, or income taxes to individual segments. In 2011 non-segment items included the gain on disposition of certain assets and liabilities of our exhaust business and our light-duty filtration business while 2010 included a Brazil revenue tax recovery. These gains were not allocated to the businesses as they were not considered in our evaluation of operating results for the year. Segment EBIT may not be consistent with measures used by other companies.
144 Table of Contents CUMMINSINC. AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) NOTE 23. OPERATING SEGMENTS (Continued) Summarized financial information regarding our reportable operating segments at December31, is shown in the table below: In millions Engine Components Power Generation Distribution Non-segment Items(1) Total 2011 External sales $ 9,649 $ 2,886 $ 2,492 $ 3,021 $  $ 18,048 Intersegment sales 1,658 1,177 1,006 23 (3,864 )  Total sales 11,307 4,063 3,498 3,044 (3,864 ) 18,048 Depreciation and amortization(2) 181 73 42 25  321 Research, development and engineering expenses 397 175 54 3  629 Equity, royalty and interest income from investees 166 31 47 172  416 Interest income 18 5 8 3  34 Segment EBIT 1,384 470 373 386 102 2,715 Net assets 3,167 1,467 1,547 1,123  7,304 Investments and advances to equity investees 398 123 79 238  838 Capital expenditures 339 141 87 55  622 2010 External sales $ 6,594 $ 2,171 $ 2,150 $ 2,311 $  $ 13,226 Intersegment sales 1,294 875 769 13 (2,951 )  Total sales 7,888 3,046 2,919 2,324 (2,951 ) 13,226 Depreciation and amortization(2) 171 79 41 25  316 Research, development and engineering expenses 263 114 36 1  414 Equity, royalty and interest income from investees 161 23 35 132  351 Interest income 12 2 5 2  21 Segment EBIT 809 278 299 297 (26 ) 1,657 Net assets 2,662 1,450 1,286 929  6,327 Investments and advances to equity investees 355 106 73 200  734 Capital expenditures 197 78 53 36  364 2009 External sales $ 5,582 $ 1,562 $ 1,879 $ 1,777 $  $ 10,800 Intersegment sales 823 793 538 7 (2,161 )  Total sales 6,405 2,355 2,417 1,784 (2,161 ) 10,800 Depreciation and amortization(2) 185 73 49 17  324 Research, development and engineering expenses 241 88 33   362 Equity, royalty and interest income from investees 54 13 22 125  214 Restructuring and other charges     99 99 Interest income 3 1 3 1  8 Segment EBIT 252 95 167 235 (74 ) 675 Net assets 2,176 1,287 1,123 687  5,273 Investments and advances to equity investees 261 91 50 172  574 Capital expenditures 207 59 34 10  310 (1) Includes intersegment sales and profit in inventory eliminations and unallocated corporate expenses. The year ended December31, 2011, includes a $68million gain ($37million after-tax) related to the sale of certain assets and liabilities of our exhaust business and a $53million gain ($33million after-tax) recorded for the sale of certain assets and liabilities of our light-duty filtration business, both from the Components segment, and a $38million gain ($24million after-tax) related to flood damage recoveries from the insurance settlement regarding a June 2008 flood in Southern Indiana. The gains have been excluded from segment results as they were not considered in our evaluation of operating results for the year ended December31, 2011. For the year ended December31, 2010, unallocated corporate expenses include $32million in Brazil 145 Table of Contents CUMMINSINC. AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) NOTE 23. OPERATING SEGMENTS (Continued) tax recoveries ($21million after-tax) and $2million in flood damage expenses. The Brazil tax recovery has been excluded from segment results as it was not considered in our evaluation of operating results for the year ended December31, 2010. For the year ended December31, 2009, unallocated corporate expenses included $99million in restructuring and other charges and a gain of $12million related to flood damage recoveries.
(2) Depreciation and amortization as shown on a segment basis excludes the amortization of debt discount that is included in the Consolidated Statements of Income as "Interest expense." A reconciliation of our segment information to the corresponding amounts in the Consolidated Statements of Income is shown in the table below: Years ended December31, In millions 2011 2010 2009 Segment EBIT $ 2,715 $ 1,657 $ 675 Less: Interest expense 44 40 35 Income before income taxes $ 2,671 $ 1,617 $ 640 December31, In millions 2011 2010 2009 Net assets for operating segments $ 7,304 $ 6,327 $ 5,273 Liabilities deducted in arriving at net assets 4,832 4,412 4,018 Pension and other postretirement benefit adjustments excluded from net assets (928 ) (879 ) (1,180 ) Deferred tax assets not allocated to segments 435 517 680 Debt-related costs not allocated to segments 25 25 25 Total assets $ 11,668 $ 10,402 $ 8,816 The table below presents certain segment information by geographic area. Net sales attributed to geographic areas are based on the location of the customer.
Years ended and as of December31, In millions 2011 2010 2009 Net Sales United States $ 7,354 $ 4,817 $ 5,141 China 1,452 1,206 630 Brazil 1,286 1,014 596 India 859 808 592 United Kingdom 727 562 406 Canada 653 506 327 Mexico 631 415 240 Other foreign countries 5,086 3,898 2,868 Total net sales $ 18,048 $ 13,226 $ 10,800 146 Table of Contents CUMMINSINC. AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) NOTE 23. OPERATING SEGMENTS (Continued) Years ended and as of December31, In millions 2011 2010 2009 Long-lived assets United States $ 2,218 $ 1,981 $ 1,811 China 520 446 322 United Kingdom 318 266 188 India 203 173 134 Brazil 151 146 125 Netherlands 111   Mexico 72 62 54 Canada 64 64 27 Germany 47 44 37 Australia 34 48 11 Korea 27 19 2 Turkey 19 1 1 Other foreign countries 78 72 74 Total long-lived assets $ 3,862 $ 3,322 $ 2,786 Our largest customer is PACCARInc. Worldwide sales to this customer were $2,144million in 2011, $986million in 2010 and $925million in 2009, representing 12percent, seven percent and nine percent, respectively, of our consolidated net sales. No other customer accounted for more than tenpercent of consolidated net sales.
147 Table of Contents CUMMINSINC. AND SUBSIDIARIES SELECTED QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA UNAUDITED In millions, except per share amounts First Quarter Second Quarter Third Quarter Fourth Quarter 2011 Net sales $ 3,860 $ 4,641 $ 4,626 $ 4,921 Gross margin 957 1,203 1,188 1,241 Net income attributable to CumminsInc.(1) 343 505 452 548 Net earnings per share attributable to CumminsInc.basic(2) $ 1.75 $ 2.61 $ 2.35 $ 2.87 Net earnings per share attributable to CumminsInc.diluted 1.75 2.60 2.35 2.86 Cash dividends per share 0.2625 0.2625 0.40 0.40 Stock price per share High $ 114.81 $ 121.49 $ 114.00 $ 103.95 Low 93.50 91.13 79.62 79.53 2010 Net sales $ 2,478 $ 3,208 $ 3,401 $ 4,139 Gross margin 601 753 830 984 Net income attributable to CumminsInc.(1) 149 246 283 362 Net earnings per share attributable to CumminsInc.basic(2) $ 0.75 $ 1.25 $ 1.45 $ 1.85 Net earnings per share attributable to CumminsInc.diluted 0.75 1.25 1.44 1.84 Cash dividends per share 0.175 0.175 0.2625 0.2625 Stock price per share High $ 63.44 $ 77.10 $ 92.50 $ 111.87 Low 44.84 58.91 63.04 87.00 (1) For the year ended December31, 2011, net income includes a $68million gain ($37million after-tax) related to the disposition of certain assets and liabilities of our exhaust business and a $53million gain ($33million after-tax) recorded for the disposition of certain assets and liabilities of our light-duty filtration business, both from the Components segment, and a $38million gain ($24million after-tax) related to flood damage recoveries from the insurance settlement related to a June 2008 flood in Southern Indiana. For the year ended December31, 2010, net income includes $32million in Brazil tax recoveries ($21million after-tax) and $2million in flood damage expenses.
(2) Earnings per share in each quarter is computed using the weighted-average number of shares outstanding during that quarter while earnings per share for the full year is computed using the weighted-average number of shares outstanding during the year. Thus, the sum of the four quarters earnings per share does not equal the full year earnings per share.
At December31, 2011, there were approximately 3,942 holders of record of CumminsInc.'s $2.50 par value common stock.
148 Table of Contents ITEM 9.Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure None.
ITEM 9A.Controls and Procedures Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures As of the end of the period covered by this Annual Report on Form10-K, our management evaluated, with the participation of our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures as defined in Exchange Act Rules13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e). Based upon that evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of the end of the period covered by this Annual Report on Form10-K.
Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting There has been no change in our internal control over financial reporting during the quarter ended December31, 2011, that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.
Management's Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting The information required by Item9A relating to Management's Annual Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting and Attestation Report of the Registered Public Accounting Firm is incorporated herein by reference to the information set forth under the captions "Management's Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting" and "Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm," respectively, under Item8.
ITEM 9B.Other Information None.
PART III ITEM 10.Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance The information required by Item10 is incorporated by reference to the relevant information under the captions "Corporate Governance," "Election of Directors" and "Other InformationSection16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance" in our 2012 Proxy Statement, which will be filed within 120days after the end of 2011. Information regarding our executive officers may be found in Part1 of this annual report under the caption "Executive Officers of the Registrant." Except as otherwise specifically incorporated by reference, our Proxy Statement is not deemed to be filed as part of this annual report.
ITEM 11.Executive Compensation The information required by Item11 is incorporated by reference to the relevant information under the caption "Executive Compensation" in our 2012 Proxy Statement, which will be filed within 120days after the end of 2011.
149 Table of Contents ITEM 12.Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters Information concerning our equity compensation plans as of December31, 2011, is as follows: Plan Category Number of securities to be issued upon exercise of outstanding options, warrants and rights(1) Weighted-average exercise price of outstanding options, warrants and rights(2) Number of securities remaining available for future issuance under equity compensation plans (excluding securities reflected in the first column) Equity compensation plans approved by security holders 1,850,273 $ 59.02 4,169,221 Equity compensation plans not approved by security holders    Total 1,850,273 $ 59.02 4,169,221 (1) The number is comprised of 1,243,037 stock options, 525,391 performance shares and 81,845 restricted shares. Refer to Note17, "STOCK INCENTIVE AND STOCK OPTION PLANS," to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of how options and shares are rewarded.
(2) The weighted-average exercise price relates only to the 1,243,037 stock options. Performance and restricted shares do not have an exercise price and, therefore, are not included in this calculation.
(3) The 2010 - 2011 award cycle performance shares had a payout factor of 2.0. This payout factor was determined after year-end 2011. In 2012, we granted an additional 183,635 shares related to the 2010-2011 award cycle, which reduced the number of shares remaining available for future issuance under our equity compensation plans.
The remaining information required by Item12 is incorporated by reference to the relevant information under the caption "Stock Ownership of Directors, Management and Others" in our 2012 Proxy Statement, which will be filed within 120days after the end of 2011.
ITEM 13.Certain Relationships, Related Transactions and Director Independence The information required by Item13 is incorporated by reference to the relevant information under the captions "Corporate Governance" and "Other InformationRelated Party Transactions" in our 2012 Proxy Statement, which will be filed within 120days after the end of 2011.
ITEM 14.Principal Accountant Fees and Services The information required by Item14 is incorporated by reference to the relevant information under the caption "Selection of Independent Public Accountants" in our 2012 Proxy Statement, which will be filed within 120days after the end of 2011.
150 Table of Contents PART IV ITEM 15.Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules (a) The following Consolidated Financial Statements and schedules filed as part of this report can be found in Item8 "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data":  Management's Report to Shareholders  Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  Consolidated Statements of Income for the years ended December31, 2011, 2010 and 2009  Consolidated Balance Sheets at December31, 2011 and 2010  Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended December31, 2011, 2010 and 2009  Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity for the years ended December31, 2011, 2010 and 2009  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  Selected Quarterly Financial Data (b) See Exhibit Index at the end of this Annual Report on Form10-K.
151 Table of Contents SIGNATURES Pursuant to the requirements of Section13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
CUMMINSINC.
By: /s/PATRICK J. WARD Patrick J. Ward Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (Principal Financial Officer) By: /s/MARSHA L. HUNT Marsha L. Hunt Vice PresidentCorporate Controller (Principal Accounting Officer) Date: February20, 2012 Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by or on behalf of the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities as of this February20, 2012.
Signatures Title Date /s/N. THOMAS LINEBARGER N. Thomas Linebarger Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer (Principal Executive Officer) February20, 2012 /s/PATRICK J. WARD Patrick J. Ward Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (Principal Financial Officer) February20, 2012 /s/MARSHA L. HUNT Marsha L. Hunt Vice PresidentCorporate Controller (Principal Accounting Officer) February20, 2012 * Robert J. Bernhard Director February20, 2012 * Franklin R. Chang-Diaz Director February20, 2012 * Stephen B. Dobbs Director February20, 2012 * Robert K. Herdman Director February20, 2012 152 Table of Contents Signatures Title Date * Alexis M. Herman Director February20, 2012 * William I. Miller Director February20, 2012 * Georgia R. Nelson Director February20, 2012 * Carl Ware Director February20, 2012 By: /s/PATRICK J. WARD Patrick J. Ward Attorney-in-fact 153 Table of Contents CUMMINSINC.
EXHIBIT INDEX Exhibit No.
Description of Exhibit 3(a) Restated Articles of Incorporation, as amended (incorporated by reference to Exhibit3(a) to CumminsInc.'s Quarterly Report on Form10-Q for the quarter ended June28, 2009).
3(b) By-laws, as amended and restated effective as of July14, 2009 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit3.1 to CumminsInc.'s Current Report on Form8-K dated July17, 2009).
10(a)# 2003 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended (incorporated by reference to Exhibit10(a) to CumminsInc.'s Annual Report on Form10-K for the year ended December31, 2009).
10(b)# Target Bonus Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit10(b) to CumminsInc.'s Annual Report on Form10-K for the year ended December31, 2009).
10(c)# Deferred Compensation Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit10(c) to CumminsInc.'s Annual Report on Form10-K for the year ended December31, 2009).
10(d)# Supplemental Life Insurance and Deferred Income Plan, as amended (filed herewith).
10(e) Credit Agreement, dated as of July16, 2010, by and among CumminsInc., CumminsLtd., Cummins Power GenerationLtd., Cummins Generator Technologies Limited, certain other subsidiaries referred to therein and the Lenders party thereto. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit10.1 to CumminsInc.'s Current Report on Form10-K dated July16, 2010).
10(f)# Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors (incorporated by reference to Exhibit10(f) to CumminsInc.'s Annual Report on Form10-K for the year ended December31, 2009).
10(g)# Excess Benefit Retirement Plan, as amended (filed herewith).
10(h)# Employee Stock Purchase Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit10(h) to CumminsInc.'s Annual Report on Form10-K for the year ended December31, 2009).
10(i)# Longer Term Performance Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit10(i) to CumminsInc.'s Annual Report on Form10-K for the year ended December31, 2009).
10(j)# 2006 Executive Retention Plan, as amended (filed herewith).
10(k)# Senior Executive Target Bonus Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit10(k) to CumminsInc.'s Annual Report on Form10-K for the year ended December31, 2009).
10(l)# Senior Executive Longer Term Performance Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit10(l) to CumminsInc.'s Annual Report on Form10-K for the year ended December31, 2009).
10(m)# Form of Stock Option Agreement under the 2003 Stock Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit10(m) to CumminsInc.'s Annual Report on Form10-K for the year ended December31, 2009).
10(n)# Form of Performance Share Award Agreement under the 2003 Stock Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit10(n) to CumminsInc.'s Annual Report on Form10-K for the year ended December31,  2009).
12 Calculation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges (filed herewith).
154 Table of Contents Exhibit No.
Description of Exhibit 21 Subsidiaries of the Registrant (filed herewith).
23 Consent of PricewaterhouseCoopersLLP (filed herewith).
24 Powers of Attorney (filed herewith).
31(a) Certification Pursuant to Section302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (filed herewith).
31(b) Certification Pursuant to Section302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (filed herewith).
32 Certifications Pursuant to Section906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (filed herewith).
101.INS XBRL Instance Document.
101.SCH XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document.
101.CAL XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document.
101.DEF XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document.
101.LAB XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document.
101.PRE XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document.
# A management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.