http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/922864/000092286414000008/a201310-k.htm
4300000000.0
AIV
2014-02-21
10-K
AIV_2014-02-21_10-K.txt

10-K 1 a201310-k.htm 10-K 2013 10-K Table of Contents UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D.C. 20549 _______________________________________ Form 10-K (Mark One) x ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2013 OR o TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 For the transition period from to Commission File Number 1-13232 (Apartment Investment and Management Company) Commission File Number 0-24497 (AIMCO Properties, L.P.) Apartment Investment and Management Company AIMCO Properties, L.P.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) Maryland (Apartment Investment and Management Company) 84-1259577 Delaware (AIMCO Properties, L.P.) 84-1275621 (State or other jurisdiction of incorporation or organization) (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.) 4582 South Ulster Street, Suite 1100 Denver, Colorado 80237 (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code) (303) 757-8101 (Registrants telephone number, including area code) Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: Title of Each Class Name of Each Exchange on Which Registered ClassA Common Stock (Apartment Investment and Management Company) New York Stock Exchange Class Z Cumulative Preferred Stock (Apartment Investment and Management Company) New York Stock Exchange Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: None (Apartment Investment and Management Company) Partnership Common Units (AIMCO Properties, L.P.) Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined by Rule 405 of the Securities Act.
Apartment Investment and Management Company :  Yes x No o AIMCO Properties, L.P.
:  Yes x No o Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act.
Apartment Investment and Management Company :  Yes o No x AIMCO Properties, L.P.
:  Yes o No x Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.
Apartment Investment and Management Company :  Yes x No o AIMCO Properties, L.P.
:  Yes x No o Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files).
Apartment Investment and Management Company :  Yes x No o AIMCO Properties, L.P.
:  Yes x No o Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrants knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.
Apartment Investment and Management Company :  Yes x No o AIMCO Properties, L.P.
:  Yes x No o Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company.  See the definitions of large accelerated filer, accelerated filer, non-accelerated filer and smaller reporting company in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.
Apartment Investment and Management Company : Large accelerated filer x Accelerated filer o Non-accelerated filer o (Do not check if a smaller reporting company) Smaller reporting company o AIMCO Properties, L.P.
: Large accelerated filer o Accelerated filer x Non-accelerated filer o (Do not check if a smaller reporting company) Smaller reporting company o Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act).
Apartment Investment and Management Company :  Yes o No x AIMCO Properties, L.P.
:  Yes o No x The aggregate market value of the voting and non-voting common stock of Apartment Investment and Management Company held by non-affiliates of Apartment Investment and Management Company was approximately $4.3 billion as of June 30, 2013.  As of February 20, 2014, there w ere 146,099,061 shares of Class A Common Stock outstanding.
_______________________________________________________ Documents Incorporated by Reference Portions of Apartment Investment and Management Companys definitive proxy statement to be issued in conjunction with Apartment Investment and Management Companys annual meeting of stockholders to be held April 29, 2014, are incorporated by reference into Part III of this Annual Report.
Table of Contents EXPLANATORY NOTE This filing combines the Annual Reports on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December31, 2013 , of Apartment Investment and Management Company, or Aimco, and AIMCO Properties, L.P., or the Aimco Operating Partnership.  Where it is important to distinguish between the two entities, we refer to them specifically.  Otherwise, references to we, us or our mean collectively Aimco, the Aimco Operating Partnership and their consolidated subsidiaries.
Aimco, a Maryland corporation, is a self-administered and self-managed real estate investment trust, or REIT.  Aimco, through wholly-owned subsidiaries, is the general and special limited partner of and, as of December31, 2013 , owned a 94.9% ownership interest in the common partnership units of, the Aimco Operating Partnership.  The remaining 5.1% interest is owned by limited partners.  As the sole general partner of the Aimco Operating Partnership, Aimco has exclusive control of the Aimco Operating Partnerships day-to-day management.
The Aimco Operating Partnership holds all of Aimcos assets and manages the daily operations of Aimcos business and assets.  Aimco is required to contribute all proceeds from offerings of its securities to the Aimco Operating Partnership.  In addition, substantially all of Aimcos assets must be owned through the Aimco Operating Partnership; therefore, Aimco is generally required to contribute all assets acquired to the Aimco Operating Partnership.  In exchange for the contribution of offering proceeds or assets, Aimco receives additional interests in the Aimco Operating Partnership with similar terms (e.g., if Aimco contributes proceeds of a stock offering, Aimco receives partnership units with terms substantially similar to the stock issued by Aimco).
We believe combining the periodic reports of Aimco and the Aimco Operating Partnership into this single report provides the following benefits:  presents our business as a whole, in the same manner our management views and operates the business;  eliminates duplicative disclosure and provides a more streamlined and readable presentation since a substantial portion of the disclosures apply to both Aimco and the Aimco Operating Partnership; and  saves time and cost through the preparation of a single combined report rather than two separate reports.
We operate Aimco and the Aimco Operating Partnership as one enterprise and the management of Aimco directs the management and operations of the Aimco Operating Partnership.
We believe it is important to understand the few differences between Aimco and the Aimco Operating Partnership in the context of how Aimco and the Aimco Operating Partnership operate as a consolidated company.  Aimco has no assets or liabilities other than its investment in the Aimco Operating Partnership.  Also, Aimco is a corporation that issues publicly traded equity from time to time, whereas the Aimco Operating Partnership is a partnership that has no publicly traded equity.  Except for the net proceeds from stock offerings by Aimco, which are contributed to the Aimco Operating Partnership in exchange for additional limited partnership interests (of a similar type and in an amount equal to the shares of stock sold in the offering), the Aimco Operating Partnership generates all remaining capital required by its business.  These sources include the Aimco Operating Partnerships working capital, net cash provided by operating activities, borrowings under its revolving credit facility, the issuance of secured debt and equity securities, including additional partnership units, and proceeds received from the sale of apartment communities.
Equity, partners capital and noncontrolling interests are the main areas of difference between the consolidated financial statements of Aimco and those of the Aimco Operating Partnership.  Interests in the Aimco Operating Partnership held by entities other than Aimco are classified within partners capital in the Aimco Operating Partnerships financial statements and as noncontrolling interests in Aimcos financial statements.
To help investors understand the differences between Aimco and the Aimco Operating Partnership, this report provides separate consolidated financial statements for Aimco and the Aimco Operating Partnership; a single set of consolidated notes to such financial statements that includes separate discussions of Aimcos shareholders equity and the Aimco Operating Partnerships partners capital, as applicable; and a combined Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations section that includes discrete information related to each entity.
This report also includes separate Part II, Item 9A. Controls and Procedures sections and separate Exhibit 31 and 32 certifications for Aimco and the Aimco Operating Partnership in order to establish that the requisite certifications have been made and that Aimco and the Aimco Operating Partnership are both compliant with Rule13a-15 or Rule15d-15 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), and 18 U.S.C. 1350.
Table of Contents APARTMENT INVESTMENT AND MANAGEMENT COMPANY AIMCO PROPERTIES, L.P.
TABLE OF CONTENTS ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K For the Fiscal Year Ended December31, 2013 Item Page PART I 1.
Business 2 1A.
Risk Factors 7 1B.
Unresolved Staff Comments 13 2.
Properties 14 3.
Legal Proceedings 15 4.
Mine Safety Disclosures 15 PART II 5.
Market for the Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 15 6.
Selected Financial Data 18 7.
Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 20 7A.
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 38 8.
Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 39 9.
Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 39 9A.
Controls and Procedures 40 9B.
Other Information 44 PART III 10.
Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 44 11.
Executive Compensation 44 12.
Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 44 13.
Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 44 14.
Principal Accounting Fees and Services 44 PART IV 15.
Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 45 Table of Contents FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides a safe harbor for forward-looking statements in certain circumstances. Certain information included in this Annual Report contains or may contain information that is forward-looking, within the meaning of the federal securities laws, including, without limitation, statements regarding: our ability to maintain current or meet projected occupancy; rental rates and property operating results; the effect of acquisitions, dispositions, developments and redevelopments; our ability to meet budgeted costs and timelines, and achieve budgeted rental rates related to our development and redevelopment projects; and our ability to comply with debt covenants, including financial coverage ratios.
Actual results may differ materially from those described in these forward-looking statements and, in addition, may be affected by a variety of risks and factors, some of which are beyond our control, including, without limitation:  financing risks, including the availability and cost of financing and the risk that our cash flows from operations may be insufficient to meet required payments of principal and interest; the risk that our earnings may not be sufficient to maintain compliance with debt covenants; real estate risks, including fluctuations in real estate values and the general economic climate in the markets in which we operate and competition for residents in such markets; national and local economic conditions, including the pace of job growth and the level of unemployment; the terms of governmental regulations that affect us and interpretations of those regulations; the competitive environment in which we operate; the timing of acquisitions, dispositions, redevelopments and developments; insurance risk, including the cost of insurance; natural disasters and severe weather such as hurricanes; litigation, including costs associated with prosecuting or defending claims and any adverse outcomes; energy costs; and possible environmental liabilities, including costs, fines or penalties that may be incurred due to necessary remediation of contamination of apartment communities presently owned or previously owned by us.  In addition, our current and continuing qualification as a real estate investment trust involves the application of highly technical and complex provisions of the Internal Revenue Code and depends on our ability to meet the various requirements imposed by the Internal Revenue Code, through actual operating results, distribution levels and diversity of stock ownership.
Readers should carefully review our financial statements and the notes thereto, as well as the section entitled Risk Factors described in Item 1A of this Annual Report and the other documents we file from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
PART I Item 1.
Business The Company Apartment Investment and Management Company, or Aimco, is a Maryland corporation incorporated on January 10, 1994.  Aimco is a self-administered and self-managed real estate investment trust, or REIT.  AIMCO Properties, L.P., or the Aimco Operating Partnership, is a Delaware limited partnership formed on May 16, 1994, to conduct our business, which is focused on the ownership, management and redevelopment of quality apartment communities located in the largest coastal and job growth markets of the United States.
Aimco, through its wholly-owned subsidiaries, AIMCO-GP, Inc. and AIMCO-LP Trust, owns a majority of the ownership interests in the Aimco Operating Partnership.  Aimco conducts all of its business and owns all of its assets through the Aimco Operating Partnership.  Interests in the Aimco Operating Partnership that are held by limited partners other than Aimco are referred to as OP Units.  OP Units include common partnership units, high performance partnership units and partnership preferred units, which we refer to as common OP Units, HPUs and preferred OP Units, respectively.  We also refer to HPUs as common partnership unit  equivalents.  At December31, 2013 , after eliminations for units held by consolidated entities, the Aimco Operating Partnership had 153,837,804 common partnership units and equivalents outstanding.  At December31, 2013 , Aimco owned 145,917,387 of the common partnership units ( 94.9% of the outstanding common partnership units and equivalents of the Aimco Operating Partnership) and Aimco had outstanding an equal number of shares of its Class A Common Stock, which we refer to as Common Stock.
As of December31, 2013 , our real estate portfolio consisted of 236 apartment communities with 60,553 apartment homes.
Business Overview Our business activities are defined by a commitment to our core values of integrity, respect, collaboration, performance culture and a focus on our customers. These values and our corporate mission, to consistently provide quality apartment homes in a respectful environment delivered by a team of people who care, continually shape our culture. In all our dealings with residents, team members, business partners and equity holders, we aim to be the best owner and operator of apartment communities and an outstanding corporate citizen.
2 Table of Contents Our principal financial objective is to provide predictable and attractive returns to our equity holders, as measured by growth in our Net Asset Value and Adjusted Funds From Operations (each defined in Item 7).  Our business plan to achieve this objective is to:  operate our portfolio of desirable apartment homes with valued amenities, with a high level of customer service and in an efficient manner that realizes the benefits of our local management expertise;  improve our geographically diversified portfolio of apartment communities, which average B/B+ in quality (defined under the Portfolio Management heading below) by selling apartment communities inconsistent with our portfolio strategy and investing the proceeds from such sales through property upgrades, capital improvements, redevelopment, development and acquisition of higher-quality apartment communities; and  provide financial leverage primarily by the use of non-recourse, long-dated, fixed-rate property debt and perpetual preferred equity, a combination which helps to limit our refunding and re-pricing risk and provides a hedge against increases in interest rates, capitalization rates and inflation.
Our business is organized around two core activities: Property Operations and Portfolio Management.  Our core activities, along with our leverage strategy, are described in more detail below.
Property Operations Our property operations consist primarily of our diversified portfolio of market-rate apartment communities, which we refer to as conventional apartment communities.  At December31, 2013 , our conventional property operations consisted of 162 apartment communities with 50,486 apartment homes in which we held an average ownership of approximately 97% We also operate a portfolio of affordable apartment communities, which  consists of apartments with rents that are generally paid, in whole or part, by a government agency.  At December31, 2013 , our affordable property operations consisted of 74 apartment communities with 10,067 apartment homes in which we held an average ownership of approximately 87% .  Our conventional and affordable property operations comprise our reportable segments and generated 90% and 10% , respectively, of our proportionate property net operating income (as defined in Item 7) during the year ended December 31, 2013 . Over the next four to five years, we expect to dispose of our affordable apartment communities and reinvest the proceeds in our conventional portfolio.
Our property operations are organized into two geographic areas, the West and East.  To manage our portfolio more efficiently and to increase the benefits from our local management expertise, we have given direct responsibility for operations within each area to area operations leaders with regular senior management reviews. To enable the area operations leaders to focus on sales and service, as well as to improve financial control and budgeting, we have dedicated area financial officers to support the operations leaders.  Additionally, with the exception of routine maintenance and purchases and installation of equipment and other capital assets, our specialized Redevelopment and Construction Services group manages capital spending related to larger capital and construction projects, thus reducing the need for the area operations leaders to spend time on oversight of such projects.
We seek to improve our property operations by: employing service-oriented, well-trained employees; upgrading systems; standardizing business processes, operational measurements and internal reporting; and enhancing financial controls over field operations. We focus on the following areas:  Customer Service.
Our operating culture is focused on our residents.  Our goal is to provide our residents with a high level of service in clean, safe and attractive communities.  We have automated certain aspects of our on-site operations to enable our on-site employees to focus more of their time on customer service as well as allow our current and future residents to interact with us in methods that are more efficient and effective for them, such as placing self-service work orders, self-guided apartment community tours and electronic leases and renewals. We evaluate our performance through a customer satisfaction tracking system.  In addition, we emphasize the quality of our on-site employees through recruiting, training and retention programs, which we believe contributes to improved customer service and leads to increased occupancy rates and enhanced operational performance.
Resident Selection and Retention.
In apartment communities, neighbors are a meaningful part of the product, together with the location of the community and the physical quality of the apartment homes.  Part of our property operations strategy is to focus on resident acquisition and retention - attracting and retaining credit-worthy residents who are good neighbors.  We have structured goals and coaching for all of our sales personnel, a tracking system for inquiries and a standardized renewal communication program.  We have standardized residential financial stability requirements and have policies and monitoring practices to maintain our resident quality.
Revenue Management and Ancillary Services.
For our conventional apartment communities, we have a centralized revenue management system that leverages people, processes and technology to work in partnership with our area operational management teams to develop rental rate pricing.  We seek to increase revenue and net operating income by optimizing 3 Table of Contents the balance between rental and occupancy rates, as well as taking into consideration the cost of preparing an apartment home for a new resident.  We are also focused on careful measurements of on-site operations, as we believe that timely and accurate collection of apartment community performance and resident profile data will enable us to maximize revenue through better property management and leasing decisions.  We have standardized policies for new and renewal pricing with timely data and analysis by floor-plan, thereby enabling us to respond quickly to changing supply and demand for our product and maximize rental revenue.  We also generate incremental revenue by providing services to our residents, including cable television, telephone services, appliance rental, and carport, garage and storage space rental at certain apartment communities.
Controlling Expenses.
Cost controls are accomplished by local focus at the area level; taking advantage of economies of scale at the corporate level; and through electronic procurement.
Maintaining and Improving Apartment Community Quality.
We believe that the physical condition and amenities of our apartment communities are important factors in our ability to maintain and increase rental rates. We invest in the maintenance and improvement of our apartment communities primarily through: Capital Improvements, which are non-redevelopment capital additions that are made to enhance the value, profitability or useful life of an asset from its original purchase condition; Capital Replacements, which represent the share of additions that are deemed to replace the consumed portion of acquired capital assets; and Property Upgrades, which may include kitchen and bath remodeling, energy conservation projects, and investments in longer-lived materials designed to reduce turnover costs, such as simulated wood flooring and granite countertops.  We also improve apartment community quality through the redevelopment of certain apartment communities in superior locations.  Refer to the Portfolio Management section below for further discussion of our redevelopment program.  Refer to the Liquidity and Capital Resources discussion within Item 7 for further information regarding our capital spending activities.
Portfolio Management Portfolio management involves the ongoing allocation of investment capital to meet our geographic and product type goals.  We target geographic balance in our diversified portfolio in order to optimize risk-adjusted returns and to avoid the risk of undue concentration in any particular market.  We also seek to balance the portfolio by product type, with both high quality apartment communities in excellent locations and also high land value apartment communities that support redevelopment activities.
Our portfolio strategy seeks predictable rent growth from a portfolio of A, B and C quality conventional apartment communities, which average B/B+ in quality and are diversified among the largest coastal and job growth markets in the United States, as measured by total apartment value. We measure conventional apartment community quality based on average rents of our apartment homes compared to local market average rents as reported by a third-party provider of commercial real estate performance and analysis.  Under this rating system, we classify as A quality apartment communities those earning rents greater than 125% of the local market average, as "B" quality apartment communities those earning rents 90% to 125% of the local market average and as C quality apartment communities those earning rents less than 90% of the local market average.  We classify as B/B+ those apartment communities earning rents ranging from 100% to 125% of the local market average.  Although some companies and analysts within the multifamily real estate industry use apartment community class ratings of A, B and C, some of which are tied to local market rent averages, the metrics used to classify apartment community quality as well as the timing for which local markets rents are calculated may vary from company to company.  Accordingly, our rating system for measuring apartment community quality is neither broadly nor consistently used in the multifamily real estate industry.  For the three months ended September 30, 2013, the most recent period for which market average rent information is available, our conventional portfolio's rents averaged 105% of local market average rents.
We expect to sell each year the lowest-rated 5% to 10% of our portfolio and to reinvest the sale proceeds in apartment communities already in our portfolio, through Property Upgrades, Capital Improvements and redevelopment, or through the purchase of other apartment communities and, in limited situations, the development of apartment communities.   The apartment communities we expect to sell are those with lower projected returns, lower operating margins, and lower expected future rent growth.  These apartment communities are often located in markets we deem less desirable than our target markets.
We invest in the redevelopment of certain apartment communities in superior locations, when we believe the investment will yield returns in excess of those from the apartment communities we sell to fund the equity component of the redevelopments.  We have historically undertaken a range of redevelopment projects: from those in which there is significant renovation, such as exteriors, common areas or apartment home improvements, typically done upon lease expirations without the need to vacate apartment homes on any wholesale or substantial basis, to those in which a substantial number of all available apartment homes are vacated for significant renovations to the apartment community.  Redevelopment work may also include seeking entitlements from local governments, which enhance the value of our existing portfolio by increasing density, that is, the right to add apartment homes to a site.  We also undertake ground-up development, either directly in connection with the redevelopment of an existing 4 Table of Contents apartment community or, on a more limited basis, at a new location with a third party development partner with expertise in the local market.  We have a specialized Redevelopment and Construction Services group to oversee these projects.
Refer to the Executive Overview within Item 7 for information regarding our Portfolio Management activities during the year ended December 31, 2013 .
Leverage Strategy Our leverage strategy seeks to balance our desire to increase financial returns with the inherent risks of leverage and we have set leverage targets of Debt and Preferred Equity to EBITDA (on a proportionate basis) of less than 7.0x and EBITDA Coverage of Interest and Preferred Dividends (on a proportionate basis) of greater than 2.5x.Our annualized ratios for the three months ended December 31, 2013 were 7.2x and 2.6x , respectively.  We also focus on the ratios of Debt to EBITDA (on a proportionate basis) and EBITDA Coverage of Interest (on a proportionate basis). We expect future leverage reduction from earnings growth and from regularly scheduled property debt amortization funded from retained earnings.  Our leverage ratios, including definitions of the numerators and denominators used in their calculation, are discussed further under the Executive Overview heading in Item 7.
At December31, 2013 , approximately 96% of our leverage consisted of property-level, non-recourse, long-dated debt and 3% consisted of perpetual preferred equity, a combination which helps to limit our refunding and re-pricing risk.  The weighted average maturity of our property-level debt was 8.2 years, with 1.9% of our unpaid principal balance maturing during 2014 and, on average, 7.8% of our unpaid principal balance maturing per year from 2015 through 2017.  Approximately 97% of our property-level debt is fixed-rate, which provides a hedge against increases in interest rates, capitalization rates and inflation.
During 2013, one of the rating agencies completed its initial review of our creditworthiness and outlined the factors that may have a positive impact on our ratings. These factors are: growing the unencumbered asset pool to more than $500 million (based on a stressed 8% capitalization rate) with asset quality consistent with the overall portfolio; sustaining leverage, defined by the rating agency as the ratio of net debt to recurring operating EBITDA, below 7.5x; and sustaining a fixed charge coverage ratio, also as defined by the rating agency, above 2.0x.  Our stated leverage targets are in line with, or more conservative than, those indicated by the rating agency.  In addition, through our normal course of refinancing activity as loans mature, we have the opportunity to grow our unencumbered pool by $150 to $200 million per year.
Although our primary sources of leverage are property-level, non-recourse, long-dated, fixed-rate, amortizing debt and perpetual preferred equity, we also have a Senior Secured Credit Agreement with a syndicate of financial institutions, which we refer to as our Credit Agreement.  The Credit Agreement provides for $600.0 million of revolving loan commitments which we use for working capital and other short-term purposes.  As of December31, 2013 , pursuant to our Credit Agreement, we had the capacity to borrow $505.0 million , net of $50.4 million of outstanding borrowings and $44.6 million for undrawn letters of credit backed by the Credit Agreement.  The Credit Agreement matures in September 2017, and may be extended for an additional one-year period, subject to certain conditions.
Competition In attracting and retaining residents to occupy our apartment communities we compete with numerous other housing alternatives. Our apartment communities compete directly with other rental apartments as well as condominiums and single-family homes that are available for rent or purchase in the markets in which our apartment communities are located. Principal factors of competition include rent or price charged, attractiveness of the location and apartment community and quality and breadth of services. The number of competitive apartment communities relative to demand in a particular area has a material effect on our ability to lease apartment homes at our communities and on the rents we charge.  In certain markets there exists an oversupply of single family homes and condominiums and a reduction of households, both of which affect the pricing and occupancy of our rental apartments.
We also compete with other real estate investors, including other apartment REITs, pension and investment funds, partnerships and investment companies in acquiring, redeveloping, managing, obtaining financing for and disposing of apartment communities.  This competition affects our ability to acquire apartment communities we want to add to our portfolio and the price that we pay in such acquisitions; our ability to finance or refinance communities in our portfolio and the cost of such financing; and our ability to dispose of communities we no longer desire to retain in our portfolio and the timing and price for which we dispose of such communities.
Taxation Aimco Aimco has elected to be taxed as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, which we refer to as the Code, commencing with our taxable year ended December 31, 1994, and intends to continue to operate in such a manner. Aimcos current 5 Table of Contents and continuing qualification as a REIT depends on its ability to meet the various requirements imposed by the Code, which relate to organizational structure, distribution levels, diversity of stock ownership and certain restrictions with regard to owned assets and categories of income.  If Aimco qualifies for taxation as a REIT, Aimco will generally not be subject to United States Federal corporate income tax on our taxable income that is currently distributed to stockholders.  This treatment substantially eliminates the double taxation (at the corporate and stockholder levels) that generally results from an investment in a corporation.
Even if Aimco qualifies as a REIT, Aimco may be subject to United States Federal income and excise taxes in various situations, such as on its undistributed income.  Aimco also will be required to pay a 100% tax on any net income on non-arms length transactions between Aimco and a taxable REIT subsidiary (described below) and on any net income from sales of apartment communities that were held for sale to customers in the ordinary course.  In addition, Aimco could also be subject to the alternative minimum tax, or AMT, on our items of tax preference.  State and local tax laws may not conform to the United States Federal income tax treatment, and Aimco and its stockholders may be subject to state or local taxation in various state or local jurisdictions, including those in which Aimco transacts business or Aimcos stockholders reside. Any taxes imposed on Aimco reduce our operating cash flow and net income.
Certain of Aimcos operations or a portion thereof, including property management, asset management and risk management are conducted through taxable REIT subsidiaries, each of which we refer to as a TRS.  A TRS is a subsidiary C-corporation that has not elected REIT status and, as such, is subject to United States Federal corporate income tax.  We use TRS entities to facilitate our ability to offer certain services and activities to our residents and investment partners that cannot be offered directly by a REIT.  We also use TRS entities to holdinvestments incertain apartment communities.
The Aimco Operating Partnership The Aimco Operating Partnership is treated as a pass-through entity for United States Federal income tax purposes and is not subject to United States Federal income taxation. Each of its partners, however, is subject to tax on his or her allocable share of partnership tax items, including partnership income, gains, losses, deductions and credits, or Partnership Tax Items, for each taxable year during which he or she is a partner, regardless of whether he or she receives any actual distributions of cash or other property from the Aimco Operating Partnership during the taxable year.  Generally, the characterization of any particular partnership tax item is determined by us, rather than at the partner level, and the amount of a partners allocable share of such item is governed by the terms of the Aimco Operating Partnerships Partnership Agreement. The General Partner is our tax matters partner for United States Federal income tax purposes. The tax matters partner is authorized, but not required, to take certain actions on behalf of the Aimco Operating Partnership with respect to tax matters. The Aimco Operating Partnership is subject to tax in certain states.
Regulation General Apartment communities and their owners are subject to various laws, ordinances and regulations, including those related to real estate broker licensing and regulations relating to recreational facilities such as swimming pools, activity centers and other common areas. Changes in laws increasing the potential liability for environmental conditions existing on apartment communities or increasing the restrictions on discharges or other conditions, as well as changes in laws affecting development, construction and safety requirements, may result in significant unanticipated expenditures, which would adversely affect our net income and cash flows from operating activities. In addition, future enactment of rent control or rent stabilization laws, such as legislation that has been considered in New York, or other laws regulating multifamily housing may reduce rental revenue or increase operating costs in particular markets.
Environmental Various Federal, state and local laws subject apartment community owners or operators to liability for management, and the costs of removal or remediation, of certain potentially hazardous materials present on an apartment community. These materials may include lead-based paint, asbestos, polychlorinated biphenyls, and petroleum-based fuels, among other miscellaneous materials. Such laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the release or presence of such materials. In connection with the ownership, operation and management of apartment communities, we could potentially be liable for environmental liabilities or costs associated with our apartment communities or communities we acquire or manage in the future.  These and other risks related to environmental matters are described in more detail in Item1A, Risk Factors.
Insurance Our primary lines of insurance coverage are property, general liability, and workers compensation.  We believe that our insurance coverages adequately insure our apartment communities against the risk of loss attributable to fire, earthquake, hurricane, tornado, 6 Table of Contents flood, terrorism and other perils, and adequately insure us against other risk.  Our coverage includes deductibles, retentions and limits that are customary in the industry.  We have established loss prevention, loss mitigation, claims handling and litigation management procedures to manage our exposure.
Employees At December31, 2013 , we had 1,932 employees, of which 1,352 were at the apartment community level, performing various on-site functions, with the balance managing corporate and area operations, including investment and debt transactions, legal, financial reporting, accounting, information systems, human resources and other support functions.  As of December31, 2013 , unions represented 92 of our employees. We have never experienced a work stoppage and believe we maintain satisfactory relations with our employees.
Available Information Our combined Annual Report on Form 10-K, our combined Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K filed by Aimco and/or the Aimco Operating Partnership and any amendments to any of those reports that we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission are available free of charge as soon as reasonably practicable through Aimcos website at www.aimco.com .   The information contained on Aimcos website is not incorporated into this Annual Report.  Aimcos Common Stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol AIV.  In 2013 , Aimcos chief executive officer submitted his annual corporate governance listing standards certification to the New York Stock Exchange, which certification was unqualified.
Item 1A.
Risk Factors The risk factors noted in this section and other factors noted throughout this Annual Report, describe certain risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement.
Redevelopment, development and construction risks could affect our profitability.
We are currently redeveloping, and we intend to continue to redevelop, certain of our apartment communities.  Additionally, during 2013, we commenced the development of a 12-story apartment building in Boston, Massachusetts.  During 2014, we expect to invest approximately $185 million to $220 million in conventional redevelopment and development activities.  Redevelopment and development activities are subject to the following risks:  we may be unable to obtain, or experience delays in obtaining, necessary zoning, occupancy, or other required governmental or third party permits and authorizations, which could result in increased costs or the delay or abandonment of opportunities;  we may incur costs that exceed our original estimates due to increased material, labor or other costs, such as litigation;  we may be unable to complete construction and lease up of an apartment community on schedule, resulting in increased construction and financing costs and a decrease in expected rental revenues;  occupancy rates and rents at an apartment community may fail to meet our expectations for a number of reasons, including changes in market and economic conditions beyond our control and the development by competitors of competing communities;  we may be unable to obtain financing with favorable terms, or at all, which may cause us to delay or abandon an opportunity;  we may abandon opportunities that we have already begun to explore for a number of reasons, including changes in local market conditions or increases in construction or financing costs, and, as a result, we may fail to recover costs already incurred in exploring those opportunities;  we may incur liabilities to third parties during the redevelopment or development process;  unexpected events or circumstances may arise during the redevelopment or development process that affect the timing of completion and the cost and profitability of the project; and  loss of a key member of a project team could adversely affect our ability to deliver projects on time and within our budget.
If we are not successful in our acquisition of apartment communities, our results of operations could be adversely affected.
The selective acquisition of apartment communities is a component of our strategy. However, we may not be able to complete transactions successfully in the future. Although we seek to acquire apartment communities when such acquisitions increase our Net Asset Value, Adjusted Funds From Operations, Pro forma Funds From Operations and property net operating income, such transactions may fail to perform in accordance with our expectations.  In particular, following acquisition, the value and operational 7 Table of Contents performance of an apartment community may be diminished if obsolescence or neighborhood changes occur before we are able to redevelop or sell the community.
Because real estate investments are relatively illiquid, we may not be able to sell apartment communities when appropriate.
Real estate investments are relatively illiquid and cannot always be sold quickly.  REIT tax rules also restrict our ability to sell apartment communities. Thus, we may not be able to change our portfolio promptly in response to changes in economic or other market conditions. Our ability to dispose of apartment communities in the future will depend on prevailing economic and market conditions, including the cost and availability of financing. This could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations.
Competition could limit our ability to lease apartment homes or increase or maintain rents.
Our apartment communities compete for residents with other housing alternatives, including other rental apartments and condominiums, and, to a lesser degree, single-family homes that are available for rent, as well as new and existing condominiums and single-family homes for sale. Competitive residential housing in a particular area could adversely affect our ability to lease apartment homes and to increase or maintain rental rates.
Failure to generate sufficient net operating income may adversely affect our liquidity, limit our ability to fund necessary capital expenditures or adversely affect our ability to pay dividends or distributions .
Our ability to fund necessary capital expenditures on our apartment communities depends on, among other things, our ability to generate net operating income in excess of required debt payments.  If we are unable to fund capital expenditures on our apartment communities, we may not be able to preserve the competitiveness of our communities, which could adversely affect our net operating income.
Our ability to make payments to our investors depends on our ability to generate net operating income in excess of required debt payments and capital expenditure requirements. Our net operating income and liquidity may be adversely affected by events or conditions beyond our control, including:  the general economic climate;  an inflationary environment in which the costs to operate and maintain our communities increase at a rate greater than our ability to increase rents, which we can only do upon renewal of existing leases or at the inception of new leases;  competition from other apartment communities and other housing options;  local conditions, such as loss of jobs, unemployment rates or an increase in the supply of apartments, that might adversely affect apartment occupancy or rental rates;  changes in governmental regulations and the related cost of compliance;  changes in tax laws and housing laws, including the enactment of rent control laws or other laws regulating multifamily housing; and  changes in interest rates and the availability of financing.
Our existing and future debt financing could render us unable to operate, result in foreclosure of our apartment communities, prevent us from making distributions on our equity or otherwise adversely affect our liquidity.
We are subject to the risk that our cash flow from operations will be insufficient to make required payments of principal and interest, and the risk that existing indebtedness may not be refinanced or that the terms of any refinancing will not be as favorable as the terms of existing indebtedness. If we fail to make required payments of principal and interest on secured debt, our lenders could foreclose on the apartment communities and other collateral securing such debt, which would result in loss of income and asset value to us. As of December31, 2013 , the majority of our apartment communities were encumbered by debt.  Our organizational documents do not limit the amount of debt that we may incur, and we have significant amounts of debt outstanding. Payments of principal and interest may leave us with insufficient cash resources to operate our communities or pay distributions required to be paid in order to maintain Aimcos qualification as a REIT.
Disruptions in the financial markets could affect our ability to obtain financing and the cost of available financing and could adversely affect our liquidity.
Our ability to obtain financing and the cost of such financing depends on the overall condition of the United States credit markets. In recent years, the United States credit markets experienced significant liquidity disruptions, which caused the spreads on debt financings to widen considerably and made obtaining financing, both non-recourse property debt and corporate borrowings, 8 Table of Contents such as our Credit Agreement, more difficult. Additionally, Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation, or Freddie Mac, and Federal National Mortgage Association, or Fannie Mae, have historically provided significant capital in the secondary credit markets at a relatively low cost.  Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae are currently under conservatorship of the Housing Finance Agency, and their future role in the housing finance market is uncertain.  Any significant reduction in Freddie Macs or Fannie Maes level of involvement in the secondary credit markets may adversely affect the pricing at which we may obtain non-recourse property debt financing.
If our ability to obtain financing is adversely affected, we may be unable to satisfy scheduled maturities on existing financing through other sources of liquidity, which could result in lender foreclosure on the apartment communities securing such debt and loss of income and asset value, each of which would adversely affect our liquidity.
Increases in interest rates would increase our interest expense and reduce our profitability.
As of December31, 2013 , on a consolidated basis, we had approximately $195.4 million of variable-rate indebtedness outstanding and $37.0 million of variable rate preferred securities outstanding.  We estimate that an increase in 30-day LIBOR of 100 basis points with constant credit risk spreads would result in our net income and the amount of net income attributable to our common security holders (including Aimco common stockholders and the Aimco Operating Partnerships common unitholders) being reduced (or the amounts of net loss and net loss attributable to our common equity holders being increased) by approximately $1.6 million and $1.8 million , respectively, on an annual basis.
At December31, 2013 , we had approximately $182.8 million in cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash, a portion of which bear interest at variable rates indexed to LIBOR-based rates, and which may mitigate the effect of an increase in variable rates on our variable-rate indebtedness and preferred securities discussed above.
Covenant restrictions may limit our ability to make payments to our investors.
Some of our debt and other securities contain covenants that restrict our ability to make distributions or other payments to our investors unless certain financial tests or other criteria are satisfied. Our Credit Agreement provides, among other things, that we may make distributions to our investors during any four consecutive fiscal quarters in an aggregate amount that does not exceed the greater of 95% of our Funds From Operations for such period, subject to certain non-cash adjustments, or such amount as may be necessary to maintain Aimcos REIT status. Our outstanding classes of preferred stock or preferred units prohibit the payment of dividends on our Common Stock or common partnership units if we fail to pay the dividends to which the holders of the preferred stock or preferred units are entitled.
Our subsidiaries may be prohibited from making distributions and other payments to us.
All of Aimcos apartment communities are owned, and all of Aimcos operations are conducted, by the Aimco Operating Partnership.  Further, many of the Aimco Operating Partnerships apartment communities are owned by other subsidiaries. As a result, Aimco depends on distributions and other payments from the Aimco Operating Partnership, and the Aimco Operating Partnership depends on distributions and payments from its subsidiaries in order to satisfy our collective financial obligations and make payments to our investors.  The ability of the Aimco Operating Partnership and its subsidiaries to make such distributions and other payments depends on their earnings and cash flows and may be subject to statutory or contractual limitations. As an equity investor in the Aimco Operating Partnership and these subsidiaries, our right to receive assets upon their liquidation or reorganization will be effectively subordinated to the claims of their creditors. To the extent that we are recognized as a creditor of such subsidiaries, our claims may still be subordinate to any security interest in or other lien on their assets and to any of their debt or other obligations that are senior to our claims.
Potential liability or other expenditures associated with potential environmental contamination may be costly.
Various Federal, state and local laws subject apartment community owners or operators to liability for management, and the costs of removal or remediation, of certain potentially hazardous materials present on a community, including lead-based paint, asbestos, polychlorinated biphenyls, petroleum-based fuels, and other miscellaneous materials. Such laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the release or presence of such materials. The presence of, or the failure to manage or remedy properly, these materials may adversely affect occupancy at affected apartment communities and the ability to sell or finance affected communities. In addition to the costs associated with investigation and remediation actions brought by government agencies, and potential fines or penalties imposed by such agencies in connection therewith, the improper management of these materials on a community could result in claims by private plaintiffs for personal injury, disease, disability or other infirmities. Various laws also impose liability for the cost of removal, remediation or disposal of certain materials through a licensed disposal or treatment facility. Anyone who arranges for the disposal or treatment of these materials is potentially liable under such laws. These laws often impose liability whether or not the person arranging for the disposal ever owned or operated the disposal facility. In connection with the ownership, operation and management of apartment 9 Table of Contents communities, we could potentially be responsible for environmental liabilities or costs associated with our apartment communities or communities we acquire in the future.
Laws benefiting disabled persons may result in our incurrence of unanticipated expenses.
Under the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, or ADA, all places intended to be used by the public are required to meet certain Federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. The Fair Housing Amendments Act of 1988, or FHAA, requires apartment communities first occupied after March 13, 1991, to comply with design and construction requirements for disabled access. For those projects receiving Federal funds, the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 also has requirements regarding disabled access. These and other Federal, state and local laws may require modifications to our apartment communities, or affect renovations of the communities. Noncompliance with these laws could result in the imposition of fines or an award of damages to private litigants and also could result in an order to correct any non-complying feature, which could result in substantial capital expenditures. Although we believe that our apartment communities are substantially in compliance with present requirements, we may incur unanticipated expenses to comply with the ADA, the FHAA and the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 in connection with the ongoing operation or redevelopment of our apartment communities.
Moisture infiltration and resulting mold remediation may be costly.
Although we are proactively engaged in managing moisture intrusion and preventing the presence of mold at our apartment communities, it is not unusual for periodic moisture intrusion issues to cause mold in isolated locations within an apartment community.  We have implemented policies, procedures and training, and include a detailed moisture intrusion and mold assessment during acquisition due diligence.  We believe these measures will manage mold exposure at our apartment communities and will minimize the effects that mold may have on our residents.  To date, we have not incurred any material costs or liabilities relating to claims of mold exposure or to abate mold conditions.  We have only limited insurance coverage for property damage claims arising from the presence of mold and for personal injury claims related to mold exposure.  Because the law regarding mold is unsettled and subject to change, we can make no assurance that liabilities resulting from the presence of or exposure to mold will not have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations.
We may be subject to litigation associated with partnership transactions that could increase our expenses and prevent completion of beneficial transactions.
We have engaged in, and intend to continue to engage in, the selective acquisition of interests in partnerships controlled by us that own apartment communities.  In some cases, we have acquired the general partner of a partnership and then made an offer to acquire the limited partners interests in the partnership. In these transactions, we may be subject to litigation based on claims that we, as the general partner, have breached our fiduciary duty to our limited partners or that the transaction violates the relevant partnership agreement or state law. Although we intend to comply with our fiduciary obligations and the relevant partnership agreements, we may incur costs in connection with the defense or settlement of this type of litigation. In some cases, this type of litigation may adversely affect our desire to proceed with, or our ability to complete, a particular transaction. Any litigation of this type could also have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations.
Government housing regulations may limit the opportunities at some of our apartment communities and failure to comply with resident qualification requirements may result in financial penalties and/or loss of benefits, such as rental revenues paid by government agencies.  Additionally, the government may cease to operate or reduce funding for government housing programs which would result in a loss of benefits.
We own equity interests in consolidated and unconsolidated entities that own certain apartment communities that benefit from governmental programs intended to provide housing to people with low or moderate incomes.  These programs, which are usually administered by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, or HUD, or state housing finance agencies, typically provide one or more of the following: mortgage insurance; favorable financing terms; tax-exempt interest; historic or low-income housing tax-credits; or rental assistance payments to the apartment community owners.  As a condition of the receipt of assistance under these programs, the apartment communities must comply with various requirements, which typically limit rents to pre-approved amounts and limit our choice of residents to those with incomes at or below certain levels. Failure to comply with these requirements may result in financial penalties or loss of benefits.  We are usually required to obtain the approval of HUD in order to acquire or dispose of a significant interest in or manage a HUD-assisted apartment community.  We may not always receive such approval.
Additionally, there is no guarantee that the government will continue to operate these programs or that the programs will be operated in a manner that generates benefits consistent with those received in the past.  Any cessation of or change in the administration of benefits from these government housing programs may result in our loss or reduction in the amount of the benefits we receive under these programs, including rental subsidies.  During 2013 , 2012 and 2011 , for continuing and discontinued operations, our rental revenues include $88.4 million, $117.3 million and $132.1million, respectively, of subsidies from government 10 Table of Contents agencies.  Of the 2013 subsidy amounts, $78.1 million related to apartment communities included in continuing operations, approximately 9.0% of which related to communities benefiting from housing assistance contracts that expired in late 2013 or expire in 2014, which we are in the process of renewing or anticipate renewing, and the remainder related to communities benefiting from housing assistance contracts that expire after 2014 and have a weighted average term of 9.7 years.  Any loss or reduction in the amount of these benefits may adversely affect our liquidity and results of operations.
Although we are insured for certain risks, the cost of insurance, increased claims activity or losses resulting from casualty events may affect our operating results and financial condition.
We are insured for a portion of our consolidated apartment communities exposure to casualty losses resulting from fire, earthquake, hurricane, tornado, flood and other perils, which insurance is subject to deductibles and self-insurance retention.  We recognize casualty losses or gains based on the net book value of the affected apartment community and the amount of any related insurance proceeds.  In many instances, the actual cost to repair or replace the apartment community may exceed its net book value and any insurance proceeds.  We recognize the uninsured portion of losses as part of casualty losses in the periods in which they are incurred. In addition, we are self-insured for a portion of our exposure to third-party claims related to our employee health insurance plans, workers compensation coverage and general liability exposure. With respect to our exposure to claims of third parties, we establish reserves at levels that reflect our known and estimated losses.  The ultimate cost of losses and the impact of unforeseen events may vary materially from recorded reserves, and variances may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition.  We purchase insurance to reduce our exposure to losses and limit our financial losses on large individual risks.  The availability and cost of insurance are determined by market conditions outside our control.  No assurance can be made that we will be able to obtain and maintain insurance at the same levels and on the same terms as we do today.  If we are not able to obtain or maintain insurance in amounts we consider appropriate for our business, or if the cost of obtaining such insurance increases materially, we may have to retain a larger portion of the potential loss associated with our exposures to risks.
Natural disasters and severe weather may affect our operating results and financial condition.
Natural disasters and severe weather such as hurricanes may result in significant damage to our apartment communities.  The extent of our casualty losses and loss in operating income in connection with such events is a function of the severity of the event and the total amount of exposure in the affected area.  When we have geographic concentration of exposures, a single catastrophe (such as an earthquake) or destructive weather event (such as a hurricane) affecting a region may have a significant adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.  We cannot accurately predict natural disasters or severe weather, or the number and type of such events that will affect us.  As a result, our operating and financial results may vary significantly from one period to the next.  Although we anticipate and plan for losses, there can be no assurance that our financial results will not be adversely affected by our exposure to losses arising from natural disasters or severe weather in the future that exceed our previous experience and assumptions.
We depend on our senior management.
Our success depends upon the retention of our senior management, including Terry Considine, our chief executive officer. We have a succession planning and talent development process that is designed to identify potential replacements and develop our team members to provide depth in the organization and a bench of talent on which to draw.  However, there are no assurances that we would be able to find qualified replacements for the individuals who make up our senior management if their services were no longer available. The loss of services of one or more members of our senior management team could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We do not currently maintain key-man life insurance for any of our employees.
Aimco may fail to qualify as a REIT.
If Aimco fails to qualify as a REIT, Aimco will not be allowed a deduction for dividends paid to its stockholders in computing its taxable income, and will be subject to United States Federal income tax at regular corporate rates, including any applicable AMT. This would substantially reduce our funds available for distribution to our investors. Unless entitled to relief under certain provisions of the Code, Aimco also would be disqualified from taxation as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year during which it ceased to qualify as a REIT.  In addition, Aimcos failure to qualify as a REIT would place us in default under our Credit Agreement.
We believe that Aimco operates, and has always operated, in a manner that enables it to meet the requirements for qualification as a REIT for Federal income tax purposes.  Aimcos continued qualification as a REIT will depend on its satisfaction of certain asset, income, investment, organizational, distribution, stockholder ownership and other requirements on a continuing basis. Aimcos ability to satisfy the asset tests depends upon our analysis of the fair market values of our assets, some of which are not susceptible to a precise determination, and for which we do not obtain independent appraisals.  Aimcos compliance with the REIT income and quarterly asset requirements also depends upon our ability to manage successfully the composition of our income and 11 Table of Contents assets on an ongoing basis. Moreover, the proper classification of an instrument as debt or equity for United States Federal income tax purposes may be uncertain in some circumstances, which could affect the application of the REIT qualification requirements. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that the Internal Revenue Service, or the IRS, will not contend that our interests in subsidiaries or other issuers constitutes a violation of the REIT requirements. Moreover, future economic, market, legal, tax or other considerations may cause Aimco to fail to qualify as a REIT, or Aimcos Board of Directors may determine to revoke its REIT status.
REIT distribution requirements limit our available cash.
As a REIT, Aimco is subject to annual distribution requirements.  As Aimcos operating partnership, the Aimco Operating Partnership pays distributions intended to satisfy Aimcos distribution requirements.  This limits the amount of cash available for other business purposes, including amounts to fund our growth.  Aimco generally must distribute annually at least 90% of its REIT taxable income, determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction and excluding any net capital gain, in order for its distributed earnings not to be subject to United States Federal corporate income tax.  We intend to make distributions to Aimcos stockholders to comply with the requirements of the Code. However, differences in timing between the recognition of taxable income and the actual receipt of cash could require us to sell apartment communities or borrow funds on a short-term or long-term basis to meet the 90% distribution requirement of the Code.
Limits on ownership of shares in Aimcos charter may result in the loss of economic and voting rights by purchasers that violate those limits.
Aimcos charter limits ownership of Common Stock by any single stockholder (applying certain beneficial ownership rules under the Federal securities laws) to 8.7% (or up to 12.0% upon a waiver from Aimcos Board of Directors) of outstanding shares of Common Stock, or 15% in the case of certain pension trusts, registered investment companies and Mr. Considine. Aimcos charter also limits ownership of Aimcos Common Stock and preferred stock by any single stockholder to 8.7% of the value of the outstanding Common Stock and preferred stock, or 15% in the case of certain pension trusts, registered investment companies and Mr. Considine.  The charter also prohibits anyone from buying shares of Aimcos capital stock if the purchase would result in Aimco losing its REIT status. This could happen if a transaction results in fewer than 100 persons owning all of Aimcos shares of capital stock or results in five or fewer persons (applying certain attribution rules of the Code) owning 50% or more of the value of all of Aimcos shares of capital stock. If anyone acquires shares in excess of the ownership limit or in violation of the ownership requirements of the Code for REITs:  the transfer will be considered null and void;  we will not reflect the transaction on Aimcos books;  we may institute legal action to enjoin the transaction;  we may demand repayment of any dividends received by the affected person on those shares;  we may redeem the shares;  the affected person will not have any voting rights for those shares; and  the shares (and all voting and dividend rights of the shares) will be held in trust for the benefit of one or more charitable organizations designated by Aimco.
Aimco may purchase the shares of capital stock held in trust at a price equal to the lesser of the price paid by the transferee of the shares or the then current market price. If the trust transfers any of the shares of capital stock, the affected person will receive the lesser of the price paid for the shares or the then current market price. An individual who acquires shares of capital stock that violate the above rules bears the risk that the individual:  may lose control over the power to dispose of such shares;  may not recognize profit from the sale of such shares if the market price of the shares increases;  may be required to recognize a loss from the sale of such shares if the market price decreases; and  may be required to repay to us any distributions received from us as a result of his or her ownership of the shares.
Aimcos charter may limit the ability of a third party to acquire control of Aimco.
The 8.7% ownership limit discussed above may have the effect of delaying or precluding acquisition of control of Aimco by a third party without the consent of Aimcos Board of Directors.  Aimcos charter authorizes its Board of Directors to issue up to 510,587,500 shares of capital stock. As of December31, 2013 , 505,787,260 shares were classified as Common Stock, of which 12 Table of Contents 145,917,387 were outstanding, and 4,800,240 shares were classified as preferred stock, of which 1,274,317 were outstanding.  Under Aimcos charter, its Board of Directors has the authority to classify and reclassify any of Aimcos unissued shares of capital stock into shares of capital stock with such preferences, conversion or other rights, voting power restrictions, limitations as to dividends, qualifications or terms or conditions of redemptions as the Board of Directors may determine. The authorization and issuance of a new class of capital stock could have the effect of delaying or preventing someone from taking control of Aimco, even if a change in control were in Aimcos stockholders best interests.
The Maryland General Corporation Law may limit the ability of a third party to acquire control of Aimco.
As a Maryland corporation, Aimco is subject to various Maryland laws that may have the effect of discouraging offers to acquire Aimco and increasing the difficulty of consummating any such offers, even if an acquisition would be in Aimcos stockholders best interests. The Maryland General Corporation Law, specifically the Maryland Business Combination Act, restricts mergers and other business combination transactions between Aimco and any person who acquires, directly or indirectly, beneficial ownership of shares of Aimcos stock representing 10% or more of the voting power without Aimcos Board of Directors prior approval. Any such business combination transaction could not be completed until five years after the person acquired such voting power, and generally only with the approval of stockholders representing 80% of all votes entitled to be cast and 66 2/3% of the votes entitled to be cast, excluding the interested stockholder, or upon payment of a fair price. The Maryland General Corporation Law, specifically the Maryland Control Share Acquisition Act, provides generally that a person who acquires shares of Aimcos capital stock representing 10% or more of the voting power in electing directors will have no voting rights unless approved by a vote of two-thirds of the shares eligible to vote. Additionally, the Maryland General Corporation Law provides, among other things, that the board of directors has broad discretion in adopting stockholders rights plans and has the sole power to fix the record date, time and place for special meetings of the stockholders. To date, Aimco has not adopted a stockholdersrights plan.  In addition, the Maryland General Corporation Law provides that a corporation that:  has at least three directors who are not officers or employees of the entity or related to an acquiring person; and  has a class of equity securities registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, may elect in its charter or bylaws or by resolution of the board of directors to be subject to all or part of a special subtitle that provides that:  the corporation will have a staggered board of directors;  any director may be removed only for cause and by the vote of two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast in the election of directors generally, even if a lesser proportion is provided in the charter or bylaws;  the number of directors may only be set by the board of directors, even if the procedure is contrary to the charter or bylaws;  vacancies may only be filled by the remaining directors, even if the procedure is contrary to the charter or bylaws; and  the secretary of the corporation may call a special meeting of stockholders at the request of stockholders only on the written request of the stockholders entitled to cast at least a majority of all the votes entitled to be cast at the meeting, even if the procedure is contrary to the charter or bylaws.
To date, Aimco has not made any of the elections described above.
Item 1B.
Unresolved Staff Comments None.
13 Table of Contents Item 2.
Properties Our portfolio includes garden style, mid-rise and high-rise apartment communities located in 23 states, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico. Our geographic allocation strategy focuses on the largest coastal and job growth markets in the United States, which are grouped according to the East and West areas into which our property operations team is organized.  The following table sets forth information on all of our apartment communities as of December31, 2013 : Number of Apartment Communities Number of Apartment Homes Average Ownership Conventional: Los Angeles 13 4,248 85 % Orange County 4 1,213 100 % San Diego 12 2,430 97 % East Bay 2 413 100 % San Jose 1 224 100 % San Francisco 7 1,208 100 % Seattle 2 239 100 % Houston 3 1,143 95 % Denver 8 2,177 97 % Phoenix 5 1,374 90 % Chicago 10 3,245 100 % West 67 17,914 94 % Washington - Northern Virginia - Maryland 14 6,547 100 % Boston 12 4,173 100 % Philadelphia 7 3,888 98 % Manhattan 21 959 100 % Suburban New York - New Jersey 2 1,162 100 % Miami 5 2,505 100 % Palm Beach - Fort Lauderdale 2 776 100 % Orlando 1 368 100 % Jacksonville 4 1,643 100 % Atlanta 6 1,325 99 % East 74 23,346 99 % Total target markets 141 41,260 97 % Other markets 21 9,226 98 % Total conventional owned and managed 162 50,486 97 % Affordable 74 10,067 87 % Total 236 60,553 96 % At December31, 2013 , we owned an equity interest in and consolidated 216 apartment communities containing 59,297 apartment homes.  These consolidated apartment communities contain, on average, 275 apartment homes, with the largest community containing 2,113 apartment homes.  These apartment communities offer residents a range of amenities, including swimming pools, clubhouses, spas, fitness centers, dog parks and open spaces.  Many of the apartment homes offer features such as vaulted ceilings, fireplaces, washer and dryer connections, cable television, balconies and patios.  Additional information on our consolidated apartment communities is contained in Schedule III - Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  At December31, 2013 , we held an equity interest in and did not consolidate 20 apartment communities containing 1,256 apartment homes.
The majority of our consolidated apartment communities are encumbered by property debt.  At December31, 2013 , 206 of our consolidated apartment communities were encumbered by, in aggregate, $4,337.8 million of property debt with a weighted average interest rate of 5.31% and a weighted average maturity of 8.2 years, respectively.  Each of the non-recourse property debt instruments comprising this total are collateralized by one of our apartment communities, without cross-collateralization, with an aggregate gross book value of $7,765.3 million .  Refer to Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 for additional information regarding our property debt.  At December 31, 2013, we had ten unencumbered apartment communities, seven of which we expect to hold beyond 2014.
14 Table of Contents Item 3.
Legal Proceedings None.
Item 4.
Mine Safety Disclosures Not applicable.
PART II Item 5.
Market for the Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Aimco Aimcos Common Stock has been listed and traded on the NYSE under the symbol AIV since July 22, 1994. The following table sets forth the quarterly high and low sales prices of our Common Stock, as reported on the NYSE, and the dividends declared in the periods indicated: Quarter Ended High Low Dividends Declared (per share) December31, 2013 $ 29.62 $ 24.78 $ 0.24 September30, 2013 31.76 26.95 0.24 June30, 2013 33.44 27.31 0.24 March31, 2013 30.85 27.04 0.24 December31, 2012 $ 27.13 $ 24.05 $ 0.20 September30, 2012 28.30 25.52 0.20 June30, 2012 27.98 25.17 0.18 March31, 2012 26.44 22.19 0.18 Aimcos Board of Directors determines and declares its dividends.  In making a dividend determination, Aimcos Board of Directors considers a variety of factors, including:  REIT distribution requirements; current market conditions; liquidity needs and other uses of cash, such as for deleveraging and accretive investment activities.  Aimco's Board of Directors targets a dividend payout ratio of approximately 60% of Adjusted Funds From Operations (which is defined in Item 7).  In January 2014, Aimcos Board of Directors declared a cash dividend of $0.26 per share on its Common Stock, which is payable on February 28, 2014, to stockholders of record on February 14, 2014.  Aimcos Board of Directors anticipates similar per share quarterly dividends for the remainder of 2014.  However, the Board of Directors may adjust the dividend amount or the frequency with which the dividend is paid based on then prevailing facts and circumstances.
On February20, 2014 , the closing price of the Common Stock was $29.28 per share, as reported on the NYSE, and there were 146,099,061 shares of Common Stock outstanding, held by 2,115 stockholders of recor d.  The number of holders does not include individuals or entities who beneficially own shares but whose shares are held of record by a broker or clearing agency, but does include each such broker or clearing agency as one recordholder.
As a REIT, Aimco is required to distribute annually to holders of its Common Stock at least 90% of its real estate investment trust taxable income, which, as defined by the Code and United States Department of Treasury regulations, is generally equivalent to net taxable ordinary income.
From time to time, Aimco may issue shares of Common Stock in exchange for common and preferred OP Units tendered to the Aimco Operating Partnership for redemption in accordance with the terms and provisions of the agreement of limited partnership of the Aimco Operating Partnership. Such shares are issued based on an exchange ratio of one share for each common OP Unit or the applicable conversion ratio for preferred OP Units. Additionally, from time to time, Aimco may also issue shares of Common Stock in exchange for limited partnership units in consolidated real estate partnerships that are tendered to the Aimco Operating Partnership for redemption in accordance with the terms and provisions of the related limited partnership agreement.  The shares are generally issued in exchange for OP Units in private transactions exempt from registration under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, pursuant to Section 4(2) thereof.  During the  year ended December31, 2013 , we did not issue any shares of Common Stock in exchange for common OP Units or preferred OP Units.  During the year ended December31, 2013 , we issued approximately 17,000 shares of Common Stock in exchange for limited partnership interests in consolidated real estate partnerships.
15 Table of Contents Aimcos Board of Directors has, from time to time, authorized Aimco to repurchase shares of its outstanding capital stock.  There were no repurchases of Aimco shares during the year ended December31, 2013 .  As of December31, 2013 , Aimco was authorized to repurchase approximately 19.3 million shares.  This authorization has no expiration date.  These repurchases may be made from time to time in the open market or in privately negotiated transactions.
Performance Graph The following graph compares cumulative total returns for Aimcos Common Stock, the MSCI US REIT Index and the Standard & Poors 500 Total Return Index (the S&P 500). The MSCI US REIT Index is published by Morgan Stanley Capital International Inc., a provider of equity indices. The indices are weighted for all companies that fit the definitional criteria of the particular index and are calculated to exclude companies as they are acquired and add them to the index calculation as they become publicly traded companies. All companies of the definitional criteria in existence at the point in time presented are included in the index calculations. The graph assumes the investment of $100 in Aimcos Common Stock and in each index on December 31, 2008, and that all dividends paid have been reinvested.  The historical information set forth below is not necessarily indicative of future performance.
For the fiscal years ended December 31, Index 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Aimco $ 100.00 $ 142.84 $ 235.12 $ 212.52 $ 258.61 $ 255.89 MSCI US REIT 100.00 128.61 165.23 179.60 211.50 216.73 S&P 500 100.00 126.46 145.51 148.59 172.37 228.19 Source:  SNL Financial LC, Charlottesville, VA  2014 The Performance Graph will not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any filing by Aimco under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, except to the extent that Aimco specifically incorporates the same by reference.
16 Table of Contents The information required by Item 5 with respect to securities authorized for issuance under equity compensation plans is incorporated by reference in Part III, Item 12 of this Annual Report.
The Aimco Operating Partnership There is no public market for the Aimco Operating Partnerships common partnership units, including OP Units, and we have no intention of listing the common partnership units on any securities exchange.  In addition, the Aimco Operating Partnerships Partnership Agreement restricts the transferability of common partnership units, including OP Units.  The following table sets forth the distributions declared per common partnership unit in each quarterly period during the two years ended December31, 2013 and 2012 : Quarter Ended 2013 2012 December 31 $ 0.24 $ 0.20 September 30 0.24 0.20 June 30 0.24 0.18 March 31 0.24 0.18 During the years ended December31, 2013 and 2012 , the Aimco Operating Partnerships distributions per common partnership unit were equal to the dividends Aimco declared per share of its Common Stock.  We intend for our future common partnership unit distributions to be equal to Aimcos Common Stock dividends.
At February20, 2014 , there were 153,923,799 common partnership units and equivalents outstanding ( 146,099,061 of which were held by Aimco) that were held by 3,097 unithol ders of record.
During the year ended December31, 2013 , the Aimco Operating Partnership acquired the noncontrolling limited partnership interests in certain consolidated real estate partnerships in exchange for the Aimco Operating Partnerships issuance of approximately 21,500 common OP Units.
The Aimco Operating Partnerships Partnership Agreement generally provides that after holding common OP Units for one year, limited partners other than Aimco have the right to redeem their common OP Units for cash, subject to our prior right to cause Aimco to acquire some or all of the common OP Units tendered for redemption in exchange for shares of Aimco Common Stock.  Common OP Units redeemed for shares of Aimco  Common Stock are exchanged on a one-for-one basis (subject to antidilution adjustments).
No common OP Units or preferred OP Units held by Limited Partners were redeemed in exchange for shares of Aimco Common Stock during the year ended December31, 2013 .
The following table summarizes  the Aimco Operating Partnerships repurchases of common OP Units for the three months ended December31, 2013 : Fiscal period Total Number of Units Purchased Average Price Paid per Unit TotalNumberof UnitsPurchased as Part of Publicly Announced Plans or Programs (1) Maximum Number ofUnitsthat May Yet Be Purchased Under Plans or Programs (1) October 1 - October 31, 2013 3,499 $ 28.22 N/A N/A November 1 - November 30, 2013 8,722 27.93 N/A N/A December 1 - December 31, 2013 9,845 25.50 N/A N/A Total 22,066 $ 26.89 (1) The terms of the Aimco Operating Partnerships Partnership Agreement do not provide for a maximum number of units that may be repurchased, and other than the express terms of the Aimco Operating Partnerships Partnership Agreement, the Aimco Operating Partnership has no publicly announced plans or programs of repurchase.  However, whenever Aimco repurchases its Common Stock, it is expected that Aimco will fund the repurchase with a concurrent repurchase by the Aimco Operating Partnership of common partnership units held by Aimco at a price per unit that is equal to the price per share paid for the Common Stock.  Refer to the preceding discussion of Aimcos authorization for equity repurchases.
17 Table of Contents Dividend and Distribution Payments Our Credit Agreement includes customary covenants, including a restriction on dividends and other restricted payments, but permits dividends and distributions during any four consecutive fiscal quarters in an aggregate amount of up to 95% of Aimcos Funds From Operations for such period, subject to certain non-cash adjustments, or such amount as may be necessary to maintain Aimcos REIT status.
Item 6.
Selected Financial Data The following selected financial data is based on audited historical financial statements of Aimco and the Aimco Operating Partnership.  This information should be read in conjunction with such financial statements, including the notes thereto, and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included herein or in previous filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Aimco For The Years Ended December 31, 2013 2012 (1) 2011 (1) 2010 (1) 2009 (1) (dollar amounts in thousands, except per share data) OPERATING DATA: Total revenues $ 974,053 $ 958,511 $ 914,355 $ 892,592 $ 896,510 Total operating expenses (725,034 ) (779,495 ) (779,064 ) (805,192 ) (836,615 ) Operating income 249,019 179,016 135,291 87,400 59,895 Income (loss) from continuing operations 34,596 (18,756 ) (136,237 ) (161,020 ) (190,895 ) Income from discontinued operations, net (2) 203,229 214,117 78,073 71,396 146,095 Net income (loss) 237,825 195,361 (58,164 ) (89,624 ) (44,800 ) Net income (loss) attributable to Aimco common     stockholders (3) 203,673 82,146 (103,161 ) (125,318 ) (114,840 ) Earnings (loss) per common share - basic and diluted: Income (loss) from continuing operations attributable to Aimco common stockholders $ 0.29 $ (0.60 ) $ (1.22 ) $ (1.48 ) $ (1.69 ) Net income (loss) attributable to Aimco common stockholders $ 1.40 $ 0.61 $ (0.86 ) $ (1.08 ) $ (1.00 ) BALANCE SHEET INFORMATION: Total real estate $ 8,214,081 $ 7,872,018 $ 7,688,798 $ 7,603,535 $ 7,501,749 Total assets 6,079,413 6,401,380 6,871,862 7,378,566 7,906,468 Total indebtedness 4,388,185 4,413,083 4,488,822 4,502,755 4,545,638 Total equity 1,172,744 1,154,894 1,144,674 1,306,772 1,534,703 OTHER INFORMATION: Dividends declared per common share $ 0.96 $ 0.76 $ 0.48 $ 0.30 $ 0.40 Total consolidated apartment communities (end of period) 216 243 331 399 426 Total consolidated apartment homes (end of period) 59,297 66,107 79,093 89,875 95,202 Total unconsolidated apartment communities (end of period) 20 22 39 48 77 Total unconsolidated apartment homes (end of period) 1,256 1,870 4,353 5,637 8,478 18 Table of Contents The Aimco Operating Partnership For The Years Ended December 31, 2013 2012 (1) 2011 (1) 2010 (1) 2009 (1) (dollar amounts in thousands, except per unit data) OPERATING DATA: Total revenues $ 974,053 $ 958,511 $ 914,355 $ 892,592 $ 896,510 Total operating expenses (725,034 ) (779,495 ) (779,064 ) (805,192 ) (836,615 ) Operating income 249,019 179,016 135,291 87,400 59,895 Income (loss) from continuing operations 34,596 (18,756 ) (134,938 ) (160,161 ) (190,075 ) Income from discontinued operations, net (2) 203,229 214,117 78,073 71,396 146,095 Net income (loss) 237,825 195,361 (56,865 ) (88,765 ) (43,980 ) Net income (loss) attributable to the Aimco Operating Partnerships common unitholders (3) 215,312 87,337 (109,365 ) (134,018 ) (123,276 ) Earnings (loss) per common unit - basic and diluted: Income (loss) from continuing operations attributable to the Aimco Operating Partnerships common unitholders $ 0.29 $ (0.60 ) $ (1.22 ) $ (1.48 ) $ (1.69 ) Net income (loss) attributable to the Aimco Operating Partnerships common unitholders $ 1.40 $ 0.61 $ (0.86 ) $ (1.07 ) $ (1.00 ) BALANCE SHEET INFORMATION: Total real estate $ 8,214,081 $ 7,872,018 $ 7,688,798 $ 7,603,535 $ 7,501,749 Total assets 6,079,413 6,401,380 6,871,862 7,395,796 7,922,839 Total indebtedness 4,388,185 4,413,083 4,488,822 4,502,755 4,545,638 Total partners capital 1,172,744 1,154,894 1,144,674 1,324,002 1,551,074 OTHER INFORMATION (4): Distributions declared per common unit (5) $ 0.96 $ 0.76 $ 0.63 $ 0.30 $ 0.40 (1) Certain reclassifications have been made to conform to the current financial statement presentation, including retroactive adjustments to reflect additional apartment communities sold during 2013 as discontinued operations (see Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8).
(2) Income from discontinued operations for the years ended December 31, 2013 , 2012 , 2011 , 2010 and 2009 includes $212.5 million , $234.5 million , $108.2 million , $94.9 million and $221.8 million in gains on disposition of real estate, respectively.  Income from discontinued operations for 2013 , 2012 and 2011 is discussed further in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Item 7.
(3) Net income attributed to Aimco common stockholders and the Aimco Operating Partnerships common unitholders increased during the year ended December 31, 2013, as compared to the year ended December 31, 2012, due to large decreases in the amount of net income allocated to noncontrolling interests in consolidated real estate partnerships and net income attributable to preferred stockholders and unitholders, each of which are further explained within Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Item 7.
(4) The number of consolidated apartment communities and apartment homes has been omitted from the Aimco Operating Partnerships selected financial data table as these amounts are identical to those of Aimco during each of the periods presented.
(5) The Aimco Operating Partnerships distributions declared per common unit during the year ended December 31, 2011, included a $0.15 per unit special distribution discussed in Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8.
19 Table of Contents Item 7.
Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Executive Overview Aimco and the Aimco Operating Partnership are focused on the ownership, management and redevelopment of quality apartment communities located in the largest coastal and job growth markets in the United States.  Our business activities are defined by a commitment to our core values of integrity, respect, collaboration, a focus on our customers and a performance culture. These values and our corporate mission, to consistently provide quality apartment homes in a respectful environment delivered by a team of people who care, continually shape our culture. In all our dealings with residents, team members, business partners and equity holders, we aim to be the best owner and operator of apartment communities and an outstanding corporate citizen.
Our principal financial objective is to provide predictable and attractive returns to our equity holders, as measured by growth in our Net Asset Value and Adjusted Funds From Operations (each defined under the Key Financial Indicators heading below).  Our business plan to achieve this objective is to:  operate our portfolio of desirable apartment homes with valued amenities, with a high level of customer service and in an efficient manner that realizes the benefits of our local management expertise;  improve our geographically diversified portfolio of apartment communities, which average B/B+ in quality (defined under the Portfolio Management heading below) by selling apartment communities inconsistent with our portfolio strategy and investing the proceeds from such sales through Property Upgrades, Capital Improvements, redevelopment, development and acquisition of higher-quality apartment communities; and  provide financial leverage primarily by the use of non-recourse, long-dated, fixed-rate property debt and perpetual preferred equity, a combination which helps to limit our refunding and re-pricing risk and provides a hedge against increases in interest rates, capitalization rates and inflation.
Our property operations consist primarily of our diversified portfolio of market-rate apartment communities, which we refer to as conventional apartment communities.  At December31, 2013 , our conventional property operations included 162 apartment communities with 50,486 apartment homes in which we held an average ownership of approximately 97% .  We also operate a portfolio of affordable apartment communities, which consists of apartments with rents that are generally paid, in whole or part, by a government agency. At December31, 2013 , our affordable property operations consisted of 74 apartment communities with 10,067 apartment homes in which we held an average ownership of approximately 87% .  Our conventional and affordable property operations comprise our reportable segments and generated 90% and 10% , respectively, of our proportionate property net operating income (defined below under the Results of Operations  Real Estate Operations heading) during the year ended December 31, 2013 .  Over the next four to five years, we expect to dispose of our affordable apartment communities and reinvest the proceeds in our conventional portfolio.
For the three months ended December 31, 2013 , our conventional portfolio had average revenue per effective apartment home of $1,469 . Average revenue per effective apartment home represents rental and other property revenues divided by the number of actual apartment homes multiplied by our ownership interest in the apartment community as of the end of the current period.  The average revenue per effective apartment home for our conventional portfolio increased 7.9% from average revenues of $1,362 for the three months ended December 31, 2012 , as a result of year-over-year revenue growth of 3.5% , the delivery of new apartment homes at our redevelopment apartment communities and the sale of conventional apartment communities during 2013 with average revenues per home substantially lower than the apartment communities in the retained portfolio. During the year ended December 31, 2013 , on average, combined conventional new and renewal lease rates were 3.3% higher than expiring lease rates.
Our portfolio strategy seeks predictable rent growth from a portfolio of A, B and C quality conventional apartment communities, which average B/B+ in quality and are diversified among the largest coastal and job growth markets in the United States, as measured by total apartment value. Refer to the discussion under the Portfolio Management heading within Item 1 for an explanation of our rating system for measuring conventional apartment community quality. For the three months ended September 30, 2013, the most recent period for which market average rent information is available, our conventional portfolio's rents averaged 105% of local market average rents.
As further discussed in Item 1, we upgrade the quality of our portfolio through the sale of apartment communities with lower projected returns, lower operating margins, and lower expected future rent growth, and we reinvest the sale proceeds in apartment communities already in our portfolio, through Property Upgrades, Capital Improvements and redevelopment, or through the purchase of other apartment communities and, in limited situations, the development of apartment communities.
In addition to improving our portfolio through the capital additions, including redevelopment, discussed below under the Liquidity and Capital Resources heading, during the year ended December 31, 2013 , we upgraded our portfolio through the 20 Table of Contents acquisition, for $29.0 million , $9.5 million and $15.1 million , of conventional apartment communities located in La Jolla, California, Atlanta, Georgia, and Boston, Massachusetts, respectively.  The apartment communities we acquired in La Jolla, Atlanta, and Boston had average revenues per home of $2,400 , $2,100 , and $2,200 , respectively, at the the dates of their acquisition, which represented revenues per apartment home of approximately 164% , 265% , and 119% , respectively, of the local market averages.
During the year ended December 31, 2013 , we also broke ground on the One Canal Street development, a 12 -story apartment community in Boston, Massachusetts.  We expect to invest approximately $190.0 million over the next two and one-half years to construct 310 luxury apartment homes and approximately 22,000 square feet of commercial space.  The development will be funded in part by a $114.0 million construction loan and in part by proceeds from the sales of lower rated apartment communities in less desirable submarkets.  Through December31, 2013 , we have incurred approximately $15.9 million of costs related to this development.
Our leverage strategy seeks to balance our desire to increase financial returns with the inherent risks of leverage and we have set leverage targets of Debt and Preferred Equity to Adjusted EBITDA of less than 7.0x and Adjusted EBITDA Coverage of Interest and Preferred Dividends of greater than 2.5x.We also focus on the ratios of Debt to Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA Coverage of Interest.
Debt, as used in these ratios, represents our proportionate share of debt, net of our proportionate share of cash and restricted cash and our investment in the subordinate tranches of a securitization that holds certain of our property debt, and Preferred Equity represents Aimcos preferred stock and the Aimco Operating Partnerships preferred OP Units.  Adjusted EBITDA is calculated by adding to our Pro forma Funds From Operations, which is calculated on an proportionate basis, our proportionate share of interest expense, taxes, depreciation and amortization related to non-real estate assets, non-cash stock-based compensation, and dividends and distributions on our preferred equity instruments. Interest, as used in these ratios, represents our proportionate share of interest expense, excluding debt prepayment penalties and amortization of deferred financing costs, and reduced by interest income we receive on our investment in the subordinate tranches of a securitization that holds certain of our property debt.  Our leverage ratios for the trailing twelve month and annualized three month periods ended December31, 2013 and 2012 , are presented below: Trailing Twelve Months Ended December 31, Annualized Three Months Ended December 31, 2013 2012 2013 2012 Debt to Adjusted EBITDA 7.1x 7.5x 6.9x 7.4x Debt and Preferred Equity to Adjusted EBITDA 7.3x 7.8x 7.2x 7.7x Adjusted EBITDA Coverage of Interest 2.6x 2.4x 2.7x 2.5x Adjusted EBITDA Coverage of Interest and Preferred Dividends 2.5x 2.1x 2.6x 2.4x We expect future leverage reduction from earnings growth and from regularly scheduled property debt amortization funded from retained earnings.  We also expect to increase our financial flexibility by expanding our pool of unencumbered apartment communities.  As of December31, 2013 , this pool included seven consolidated apartment communities, which we expect to hold beyond 2014, with an estimated fair value of approximately $380.0 million.  During 2013, we increased this pool by approximately $312.0 million, and we expect to further expand this pool in 2014.
In June2013, one of the rating agencies completed its initial review of our creditworthiness and outlined the factors that may have a positive impact on our ratings. These factors are: growing the unencumbered asset pool to more than $500 million (based on a stressed 8% cap italization rate, as directed by the rating agency) with asset quality consistent with the overall portfolio; sustaining leverage, defined by the rating agency as the ratio of net debt to recurring operating EBITDA, below 7.5x; and sustaining a fixed charge coverage ratio, also as defined by the rating agency, above 2.0x.  Our stated leverage targets are in line with, or more conservative than, those indicated by the rating agency.  In addition, through our normal course of refinancing activity as loans mature, we have the opportunity to grow our unencumbered pool by $150 to $200 million per year.
In addition to lowering the cost of borrowings under our Credit Agreement, an investment-grade rating may lower the cost of any future preferred equity issuance, provide additional flexibility for sources of capital and provide other intangible benefits.
At December31, 2013 , approximately 96% of our leverage consisted of property-level, non-recourse, long-dated debt and 3% consisted of perpetual preferred equity, a combination which helps to limit our refunding and re-pricing risk.  The weighted average maturity of our property-level debt was 8.2 years, with 1.9% of our unpaid principal balance maturing during 2014 and, on average, 7.8% of our unpaid principal balance maturing per year from 2015 through 2017.  Approximately 97% of our property-level debt is fixed-rate, which provides a hedge against increases in interest rates, capitalization rates and inflation.
21 Table of Contents At December31, 2013 , the estimated fair value of our consolidated property debt totaled $4.5 billion ($4.3 billion on a proportionate basis), as compared to a carrying value of $4.3 billion ( $4.2 billion on a proportionate basis).  During the year ended December 31, 2013 , the estimated weighted average market rate for our property debt increased by approximately 60 basis points, which decreased the estimated mark to market adjustment for our property debt at December31, 2013 , by approximately $115 million.  Additionally, capitalization rates were relatively flat during 2013 and the net operating income of our retained portfolio of apartment communities increased during 2013, which increased the estimated fair value of our apartment communities.  The combination of these factors resulted in an increase in our Net Asset Value (defined below).
Although our primary sources of leverage are property-level, non-recourse, long-dated, fixed-rate, amortizing debt and perpetual preferred equity, we also have a Senior Secured Credit Agreement with a syndicate of financial institutions, which we refer to as our Credit Agreement.  The Credit Agreement provides for $600.0 million of revolving loan commitments, which we use for working capital and other short-term purposes.  Borrowings under the Credit Agreement bear interest at a rate set forth on a pricing grid, which varies based on our leverage.  As of December31, 2013 , we had $50.4 million of outstanding borrowings under our Credit Agreement, and we had the capacity to borrow $505.0 million , net of the outstanding borrowings and $44.6 million for undrawn letters of credit backed by the Credit Agreement.  The Credit Agreement matures in September 2017, and may be extended for an additional one-year period, subject to certain conditions.
Under the Credit Agreement, we have agreed to Debt Service and Fixed Charge Coverage covenants, as well as other covenants customary to similar revolving credit arrangements. For the twelve month period ended December31, 2013 , our Debt Service and Fixed Charge Coverage ratios were 1.77x and 1.72x , respectively, compared to covenants of 1.50x and 1.30x , respectively, and ratios of 1.65x and 1.50x , respectively, for the twelve month period ended December31, 2012 .  We expect to remain in compliance with these covenants during 2014.  The Fixed Charge Coverage covenant will increase in 2015 to 1.40x.
Key Financial Indicators The key financial indicators that we use in managing our business and in evaluating our financial condition and operating performance are: Net Asset Value and Adjusted Funds From Operations.  In addition to these indicators, we also use Pro forma Funds From Operations; Free Cash Flow, Free Cash Flow internal rate of return, same store property operating results, proportionate property net operating income, financial coverage ratios, and leverage as shown on our balance sheet to evaluate our operating performance and financial condition.
Net Asset Value is the estimated fair value of our assets, net of liabilities, noncontrolling interests and preferred equity.  Adjusted Funds From Operations and Pro forma Funds From Operations are defined and further described below under the Funds From Operations and Adjusted Funds From Operations heading, and proportionate property net operating income is defined and further described below under the Results of Operations  Real Estate Operations heading.  Free Cash Flow represents net operating income less spending for Capital Replacements and Free Cash Flow internal rate of return represents the rate of return generated by the Free Cash Flow from the apartment community and the proceeds from its eventual sale, and is a common benchmark used in the real estate industry for relative comparison of real estate valuations.
The key macro-economic factors and non-financial indicators that affect our financial condition and operating performance are: household formations; rates of job growth; single-family and multifamily housing starts; interest rates; and availability and cost of financing.
Results of Operations Because our operating results depend primarily on income from our apartment communities, the supply of and demand for apartments influences our operating results.  Additionally, the level of expenses required to operate and maintain our apartment communities and the pace and price at which we redevelop, acquire and dispose of our apartment communities affect our operating results.
The following discussion and analysis of the results of our operations and financial condition should be read in conjunction with the accompanying consolidated financial statements in Item 8.
Overview 2013 Highlights Highlights of our results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2013 , are summarized below:  Conventional Same Store revenues and expenses for 2013 , increased by 4.4% and 3.0% , respectively, resulting in a 5.1% increase in net operating income as compared to 2012 ; 22 Table of Contents  Average revenue per effective apartment home for our conventional portfolio increased by 7.9% , from $1,362 for the three months ended December31, 2012 , to $1,469 for the three months ended December31, 2013 , as a result of year-over-year Conventional Same Store revenue growth of 3.5% , the delivery of new apartment homes at our redevelopment apartment communities, the sale of conventional apartment communities with average revenues per apartment home substantially lower than those of the retained portfolio, and the acquisition of three conventional apartment communities with average revenues per apartment home of $2,290 ; and  Average daily occupancy for our Conventional Same Store apartment communities was 95.4% for the year ended December 31, 2013 , as compared to 95.6% for 2012 .
2013 compared to 2012 Net income attributable to Aimco and net income attributable to the Aimco Operating Partnership increased by $74.8 million and $81.2 million , respectively, during the the year ended December 31, 2013 , as compared to the year ended December 31, 2012 .  The increase in income for Aimco and the Aimco Operating Partnership was principally due to an increase in the net operating income and a decrease in depreciation and amortization of our apartment communities in continuing operations.
In addition to the changes in net income attributable to Aimco and the Aimco Operating Partnership described above, the amounts of net income attributable to Aimco common stockholders and net income attributable to the Aimco Operating Partnerships common unitholders increased by approximately $47.1 million during the year ended December 31, 2013 , as compared to the year ended December 31, 2012 , due to a reduction in preferred stock dividends and preferred unit distributions and related costs resulting from the redemption of $600.9 million of preferred securities during 2012.
2012 compared to 2011 Net income attributable to Aimco and net income attributable to the Aimco Operating Partnership increased by $189.5 million and $200.8 million , respectively, during the the year ended December 31, 2012 , as compared to the year ended December 31, 2011 .  The increase in income for Aimco and the Aimco Operating Partnership was principally due to an increase in the net operating income and a decrease in interest expense of our apartment communities in continuing operations, an increase in income from discontinued operations, primarily due to an increase in gains on dispositions, and an increase in gains on dispositions of interests in unconsolidated real estate.
The following paragraphs discuss these and other items affecting the results of operations of Aimco and the Aimco Operating Partnership in more detail.
Property Operations As described under the preceding Executive Overview heading, our owned real estate portfolio consists primarily of conventional apartment communities, and we also operate a portfolio of affordable apartment communities.  Our conventional and affordable property operations comprise our reportable segments.
In accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, or GAAP, we consolidate certain apartment communities in which we hold an insignificant economic interest and in some cases we do not consolidate other apartment communities in which we have a significant economic interest. Due to the diversity of our economic ownership interests in our apartment communities, our chief operating decision maker emphasizes as a key measurement of segment profit or loss proportionate property net operating income, which represents our share of the property net operating income of the consolidated and unconsolidated apartment communities that we own and manage. Accordingly, the results of operations of our conventional and affordable segments discussed below are presented on a proportionate basis and exclude the results of four conventional apartment communities with 142 apartment homes and 19 affordable apartment communities with 1,276 apartment homes that we do not manage.
We do not include property management revenues, offsite costs associated with property management or casualty-related amounts in our assessment of segment performance.  Accordingly, these items are not allocated to our segment results discussed below.  Refer to Note 15 in the  consolidated financial statements in Item 8 for further discussion regarding our reportable segments, including a reconciliation of these proportionate amounts to consolidated rental and other property revenues and property operating expenses.
Conventional Real Estate Operations Our conventional segment consists of apartment communities we classify as Conventional Same Store, Conventional Redevelopment and Other Conventional apartment communities.  Conventional Same Store apartment communities are those we manage, in which our ownership exceeds 10% and that have reached and maintained a stabilized occupancy rate (greater than 23 Table of Contents 90%) during the current year-to-date and prior year-to-date periods.  Conventional Redevelopment apartment communities are those in which a substantial number of available apartment homes have been vacated for major renovations or have not been stabilized in occupancy for at least one year as of the earliest period presented, or for which other significant non-apartment home renovations are underway or have been complete for less than one year.  Based on the small number of Conventional Redevelopment apartment communities at December31, 2013 , we have included their results in the Other Conventional classification within the presentation below.  Other Conventional apartment communities generally include conventional apartment communities that have significant rent control restrictions, communities affected by casualty events, communities acquired during the periods and the operations of properties that are not multi-family, such as fitness centers.
As of December31, 2013 , as defined by our segment performance metrics, our Conventional Same Store portfolio and our Other Conventional portfolio consisted of 122 and 36 apartment communities with 45,140 and 5,204 apartment homes, respectively.  From December31, 2012 to December31, 2013 , on a net basis, our Conventional Same Store portfolio decreased by 17 apartment communities and 5,164 apartment homes.  This consisted of 16 apartment communities with 5,578 apartment homes that were sold, three apartment communities with 1,294 apartment homes that were reclassified from our Other Conventional portfolio to our Conventional Same Store portfolio when they reached stabilization following a casualty loss, four senior housing apartment communities with 908 apartment homes that were reclassified from our Conventional Same Store portfolio to our Other Conventional portfolio based on our determination that certain restrictions on increases in rental rates for these apartment communities are not appropriately comparable with changes in local market rental rates, and 28 new apartment homes that were placed into service at one of our existing apartment communities.  Our conventional portfolio results for the years ended December31, 2013 and 2012 , as presented below, are based on the apartment community populations as of December31, 2013 .
Year Ended December 31, 2013 2012 $ Change % Change Rental and other property revenues: Conventional Same Store $ 716,618 $ 686,554 $ 30,064 4.4 % Other Conventional 86,624 75,322 11,302 15.0 % Total 803,242 761,876 41,366 5.4 % Property operating expenses: Conventional Same Store 243,593 236,434 7,159 3.0 % Other Conventional 41,469 37,980 3,489 9.2 % Total 285,062 274,414 10,648 3.9 % Property net operating income: Conventional Same Store 473,025 450,120 22,905 5.1 % Other Conventional 45,155 37,342 7,813 20.9 % Total $ 518,180 $ 487,462 $ 30,718 6.3 % For the year ended December 31, 2013 , as compared to 2012 , our conventional segments proportionate property net operating income increased $30.7 million , or 6.3% .
For the year ended December 31, 2013 , as compared to 2012 , Conventional Same Store proportionate property net operating income increased by $22.9 million , or 5.1% . This increase was primarily attributable to a $30.1 million , or 4.4% , increase in rental and other property revenues due to higher average revenues (approximately $61 per effective home), comprised of increases in rental rates, utility reimbursements, and other fees including parking.  Rental rates on new leases transacted during the year ended December 31, 2013 , were 1.5% higher than expiring lease rates, and renewal rates were 5.1% higher than expiring lease rates.  These increases in revenue were partially offset by a 20 basis point decrease in average daily occupancy.  The increase in Conventional Same Store rental and other property revenues was partially offset by a $7.2 million , or 3.0% , increase in property operating expenses, primarily due to increases in real estate taxes, insurance costs, utilities and administrative expenses, partially offset by decreases in personnel and related costs.
Our Other Conventional proportionate property net operating income increased by $7.8 million , or 20.9% , during the year ended December 31, 2013 , as compared to 2012 , primarily due to a $4.3 million increase in net operating income resulting from conventional apartment communities we acquired in 2012 and 2013. Other Conventional net operating income also increased by $3.5 million due to apartment homes at our redevelopment apartment communities that have been completed and an increase in occupancy at one of our communities in New York City.
As of December31, 2012 , as defined by our segment performance metrics, our Conventional Same Store portfolio and our Other Conventional portfolio consisted of 124 and 31 apartment communities with 44,960 and 5,199 apartment homes, respectively.
24 Table of Contents Our conventional portfolio results for the years ended December31, 2012 and 2011 , as presented below, are based on the apartment community populations as of December31, 2012 .
Year Ended December 31, 2012 2011 $ Change % Change Rental and other property revenues: Conventional Same Store $ 681,015 $ 652,058 $ 28,957 4.4 % Other Conventional 80,861 72,808 8,053 11.1 % Total 761,876 724,866 37,010 5.1 % Property operating expenses (1): Conventional Same Store 232,633 229,228 3,405 1.5 % Other Conventional 39,597 34,741 4,856 14.0 % Total 272,230 263,969 8,261 3.1 % Property net operating income (1): Conventional Same Store 448,382 422,830 25,552 6.0 % Other Conventional 41,264 38,067 3,197 8.4 % Total $ 489,646 $ 460,897 $ 28,749 6.2 % (1) At the beginning of 2012, we revised our methodology for including certain costs within property operating expenses for purposes of measuring segment performance.  Based on the lack of comparable expense information for 2011, we have excluded $2.2 million of these costs from property operating expenses and property net operating income for the year ended December 31, 2012, as presented above.  These expenses are included within the comparison of our conventional segment results for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012.
For the year ended December 31, 2012 , as compared to 2011 , our conventional segments proportionate property net operating income increased $28.7 million , or 6.2% .
For the year ended December 31, 2012 , as compared to 2011 , Conventional Same Store proportionate property net operating income increased by $25.6 million , or 6.0% . This increase was primarily attributable to a $29.0 million , or 4.4% , increase in rental and other property revenues due to higher average revenues (approximately $62 per effective home), comprised of increases in rental rates, fee income and utility reimbursements, partially offset by a 30 basis point decrease in average daily occupancy.  Rental rates on new leases transacted during the year ended December 31, 2012 , were 3.2% higher than expiring lease rates, and renewal rates were 5.5% higher than expiring lease rates.  The increase in Conventional Same Store rental and other property revenues was partially offset by a $3.4 million , or 1.5% , increase in property operating expenses, primarily due to increases in real estate taxes, insurance and marketing expenses, partially offset by decreases in personnel and related costs.
Our Other Conventional proportionate property net operating income increased by $3.2 million , or 8.4% , during the year ended December 31, 2012 , as compared to 2011 , primarily due to an increase in net operating income resulting from conventional apartment communities we acquired in 2012 and 2011.
Affordable Real Estate Operations Our affordable segment consists of apartment communities we classify as Affordable Same Store or Other Affordable.  Affordable Same Store apartment communities are those we manage that are subject to tax credit agreements, in which our ownership exceeds 10% and that have reached and maintained a stabilized occupancy rate (greater than 90%) during the current year and prior year-to-date periods.  Other Affordable apartment communities are those that do not meet the Affordable Same Store community definition because they are not subject to tax credit agreements and/or our ownership interest is less than 10%.  During 2013, we revised our definition of Affordable Same Store communities to include only those communities that are subject to tax credit agreements.
At December31, 2013 , as defined by our segment performance metrics, our Affordable Same Store portfolio and Other Affordable portfolio consisted of 46 and nine apartment communities with 7,424 and 1,367 apartment homes, respectively.  From December31, 2012 to December31, 2013 , our Affordable Same Store portfolio decreased by 21 apartment communities with 2,570 apartment homes, which consisted of two apartment communities with 272 apartment homes that were sold and the remainder representing non-tax credit apartment communities we reclassified to our Other Affordable portfolio based on the Affordable Same Store definition change discussed above.  Our affordable results for the years ended December31, 2013 and 2012 presented below are based on the apartment community populations at December31, 2013 .
25 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, 2013 2012 $ Change % Change Rental and other property revenues: Affordable Same Store $ 87,047 $ 85,522 $ 1,525 1.8 % Other Affordable 11,666 11,613 53 0.5 % Total 98,713 97,135 1,578 1.6 % Property operating expenses: Affordable Same Store 34,737 33,696 1,041 3.1 % Other Affordable 4,980 5,236 (256 ) (4.9 )% Total 39,717 38,932 785 2.0 % Property net operating income: Affordable Same Store 52,310 51,826 484 0.9 % Other Affordable 6,686 6,377 309 4.8 % Total $ 58,996 $ 58,203 $ 793 1.4 % For the year ended December 31, 2013 , as compared to 2012 , our affordable segments proportionate property net operating income increased $0.8 million , or 1.4% .  The proportionate property net operating income of our Affordable Same Store apartment communities increased $0.5 million , or 0.9% , which consisted of a $1.5 million , or 1.8% , increase in revenue, partially offset by a $1.0 million , or 3.1% , increase in expense.  Affordable Same Store revenue increased partially due to higher average revenues ($14 per effective home) and higher average physical occupancy (30 basis points).  Affordable Same Store expenses increased primarily due to an increase in utilities, real estate taxes and insurance costs.
At December31, 2012 , as defined by our segment performance metrics, our Affordable Same Store portfolio and Other Affordable portfolio consisted of 46 and nine apartment communities with 7,424 and 1,367 apartment homes, respectively.  Our affordable results for the years ended December31, 2012 and 2011 presented below are based on the apartment community populations at December31, 2012 .
Year Ended December 31, 2012 2011 $ Change % Change Rental and other property revenues: Affordable Same Store $ 85,522 $ 82,498 $ 3,024 3.7 % Other Affordable 11,613 11,509 104 0.9 % Total 97,135 94,007 3,128 3.3 % Property operating expenses (1): Affordable Same Store 33,258 32,412 846 2.6 % Other Affordable 5,224 4,684 540 11.5 % Total 38,482 37,096 1,386 3.7 % Property net operating income (1): Affordable Same Store 52,264 50,086 2,178 4.3 % Other Affordable 6,389 6,825 (436 ) (6.4 )% Total $ 58,653 $ 56,911 $ 1,742 3.1 % (1) Refer to Note 1 to the preceding table comparing our conventional segments results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011.  Similarly, we have excluded $0.5 million of costs from property operating expenses and property net operating income for the year ended December 31, 2012, as presented above.  These expenses are included within the comparison of our affordable segment results for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012.
For the year ended December 31, 2012 , as compared to 2011 , the proportionate property net operating income of our affordable apartment communities increased $1.7 million , or 3.1% . The increase in proportionate net operating income was primarily attributed to a $2.2 million , or 4.3% , increase in the net operating income of our Affordable Same Store apartment communities.  This increase in Affordable Same Store net operating income consisted of a $3.0 million , or 3.7% , increase in revenue, partially offset by a $0.8 million , or 2.6% , increase in expense.  Affordable Same Store revenues increased primarily due to higher average revenues ($22 per effective home) and higher average physical occupancy (130 basis points).  Affordable Same Store expenses increased primarily due to increases in insurance, real estate taxes, and contract services.
26 Table of Contents Non-Segment Real Estate Operations Real estate operations net operating income amounts not attributed to our conventional or affordable segments include property management revenues, offsite costs associated with property management, and casualty losses, reported in consolidated amounts, which we do not allocate to our conventional or affordable segments for purposes of evaluating segment performance (see Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8).
Property management expenses, which include offsite costs associated with managing apartment communities we own (both our share and the share that we allocate to the noncontrolling limited partners in our consolidated partnerships) and offsite costs associated with apartment communities we managed for third parties during 2012 and 2011, totaled $30.7 million , $35.9 million and $41.4 million , respectively, for the years ended December31, 2013 , 2012 and 2011 . The decrease in property management expenses in these periods was primarily due to reductions in personnel and related costs based on the reduction in the number of apartment communities we own and manage.
For the years ended December31, 2013 and 2012 , casualty losses increased by $5.2 million , from $1.5 million to $6.7 million due to fires that damaged apartment communities in New York and Tennessee, flooding that damaged an apartment community in Michigan, and increases in minor casualty losses incurred at our apartment communities in 2013.
For the years ended December31, 2012 and 2011 , casualty losses decreased by $10.1 million, from $11.6 million to $1.5 million .  The decrease in casualty losses during 2012 was primarily due to losses in 2011 from severe snow storms in the Northeast that damaged several apartment communities along with a loss resulting from a severe wind storm in California during 2011 that damaged an apartment community.
Tax Credit and Asset Management Revenues We sponsor certain consolidated partnerships that acquire, develop and operate qualifying affordable housing apartment communities and are structured to provide for the pass-through of tax credits and deductions to their partners.  We recognize income associated with the delivery of tax credits associated with these partnerships to their partners.  The tax credit and other activities are conducted in part by our TRS entities, and the related net operating income may be subject to income taxes.
For the year ended December 31, 2013 , as compared to the year ended December 31, 2012 , tax credit and asset management revenues decreased $6.9 million .  This decrease is primarily attributable to reductions in disposition and other transactional fees from 2012 to 2013.
For the year ended December 31, 2012 , as compared to the year ended December 31, 2011 , tax credit and asset management revenues increased $3.1 million .  This increase is primarily attributable to an increase of $5.3 million of disposition and other fees we earn in connection with transactional activities.  This increase was partially offset by a $1.0 million decrease of income recognized in 2011 upon the syndication of a low-income housing tax credit partnership, with no comparable activity during 2012, and a $1.4 million decrease in asset management fees.
Investment Management Expenses Investment management expenses consist primarily of the costs of personnel who perform tax credit and asset management   activities.  For the year ended December 31, 2013 , compared to the year ended December 31, 2012 , investment management expenses decreased $7.7 million .  Investment management expenses decreased by $3.4 million due to fees paid to third parties during 2012 for asset management services related to the legacy asset management business, which we sold in late 2012 (see Note 3 to the condensed consolidated financial statements in Item 8).  Investment management expenses also decreased by $1.0 million due to a reduction in personnel and related costs and by $3.3 million due to a reduction in transaction and other costs.
For the year ended December 31, 2012 , compared to the year ended December 31, 2011 , investment management expenses increased $1.5 million . This increase was primarily due to fees paid to third parties for providing asset management services and our write off during 2012 of tax credit costs discussed above, partially offset by a reduction in personnel and related costs.
Depreciation and Amortization During the years ended December31, 2013 , 2012 and 2011 , depreciation and amortization totaled $291.9 million , $325.2 million and $323.2 million , respectively.  The $33.3 million decrease from 2012 to 2013 was primarily due to assets that became fully depreciated.
27 Table of Contents Provision for Real Estate Impairment Losses Based on periodic tests of recoverability of long-lived assets, during the year ended December31, 2012 we recognized impairment losses totaling $6.2 million primarily related to assets classified as held for use.  These impairment losses were recognized primarily due to reductions in the estimated period over which we expect to hold the apartment communities, coupled with reductions in the estimated fair values of the assets as compared with their carrying amounts.
General and Administrative Expenses In recent years, we have worked toward simplifying our business, including winding down the portion of our business that generates transaction-based activity fees and reducing the number of partnerships that own our conventional apartment communities by acquiring the noncontrolling interests in these partnerships, which allows us to reduce overhead and other costs associated with these activities.  These and other simplification activities, along with our scale reductions have allowed us to reduce our offsite costs, which consist of general and administrative expenses as well as property management and investment management expenses, by $34.1 million, or 29.7%, since 2010.  Our general and administrative expense as a percentage of total revenues has decreased from 5.6% in 2011, to 5.2% in 2012 and 4.7% in 2013.
For the year ended December 31, 2013 , compared to the year ended December 31, 2012 , general and administrative expenses decreased $3.9 million , or 7.9% , primarily due to decreases in information technology costs.
For the year ended December 31, 2012 , compared to the year ended December 31, 2011 , general and administrative expenses decreased $1.3 million , or 2.6% , primarily due to lower rent expense related to our corporate office space, decreases in  consulting and professional costs, and reductions in personnel and related costs, partially offset by increases in information technology costs.
Other Expenses, Net Other expenses, net includes franchise taxes, risk management activities, partnership administration expenses and certain non-recurring items.
For the year ended December 31, 2013 , compared to the year ended December 31, 2012 , other expenses, net decreased $4.7 million . The net decrease is primarily due to reductions in costs related to the legacy asset management business which we sold in late 2012, severance costs incurred during 2012, and the write off during 2012 of residual receipts amounts held by certain of our affordable apartment communities following a change in the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Developments policies regarding use of these amounts.
For the year ended December 31, 2012 , compared to the year ended December 31, 2011 , other expenses, net decreased by $6.2 million . The net decrease was primarily attributable to the reduction in 2012 of costs associated with certain of our consolidated tax credit partnerships and settlement of various litigation matters and environmental remediation costs during 2011.  This decrease was partially offset by the write off during 2012 of the residual receipts amounts discussed above.
Interest Income Interest income consists primarily of interest on notes receivable, accretion of discounts on certain notes receivable, interest on cash and restricted cash accounts and interest on investments in debt securities of a securitization that holds certain of our property debt, which investments are classified within other assets in our consolidated balance sheets.
For the years ended December31, 2013 , 2012 and 2011 , Aimco recognized interest income of $16.1 million , $9.9 million and $9.7 million , respectively.  Interest income increased during 2013, as compared to 2012, primarily due to interest on the West Harlem property loans that were purchased in 2013 and held for approximately six months prior to their repayment (see Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8), and due to accretion income recognized related to an apartment community sale for which the net proceeds available for repayment of partnership loans exceeded the amounts previously anticipated.
In addition to the interest income recognized by Aimco, the Aimco Operating Partnership recognized $1.3 million of interest income during the year ended December 31, 2011 related to notes receivable from Aimco, for which no interest income was recognized in 2013 or 2012 following repayment of the notes in late 2011.  These notes receivable and related interest income were eliminated in Aimcos consolidated financial statements prior to their repayment.
Recovery of Losses on Notes Receivable During the years ended December31, 2013 , 2012 and 2011 , we recognized net recoveries of previously recognized losses on notes receivable of $1.9 million , $3.4 million and $0.5 million , respectively.  The recoveries recognized during 2013 and 2012were primarily related to our interest in Devco California LLC (formerly Casden Properties LLC), an entity organized to acquire, re- 28 Table of Contents entitle and develop land parcels in southern California.  These recoveries were partially offset by losses on other notes receivable recognized during 2013 and 2012, primarily due to apartment community sales during these years for which the net proceeds available for repayment of partnership loans were less than the amounts previously anticipated.
Interest Expense For the year ended December 31, 2013 , compared to the year ended December 31, 2012 , interest expense, which includes the amortization of deferred financing costs and prepayment penalties incurred on debt refinancings, increased by $7.7 million , or 3.3% . Approximately $10.5 million of the increase was driven by debt forgiveness gains recognized by the legacy asset management business during 2012, partially offset by normal interest expense. The debt forgiveness gains were recognized upon the sale of partnership interests held by the legacy asset management business.  The gains and interest expense were primarily allocated to noncontrolling interests and had no significant effect on the amounts of net income attributable to Aimco or the Aimco Operating Partnership during these periods.  Interest expense also increased by $3.1 million due to prepayment penalties incurred upon the early repayment of property debt on an apartment community included in our unencumbered pool.  These increases in interest expense were partially offset by decreases in interest expense resulting from lower average outstanding balances on non-recourse property debt for our existing apartment communities (inclusive of the expansion of our pool of unencumbered apartment communities).
For the year ended December 31, 2012 , compared to the year ended December 31, 2011 , interest expense decreased by $42.9 million , or 15.8% .  This decrease was primarily attributable to our recognition during 2011 of $20.7 million of prepayment penalties and the write off of $2.3 million of deferred loan costs in connection with the completion of a series of refinancing transactions in 2011. The decrease was also due to $15.6 million of debt forgiveness gains recognized during 2012 upon the sale of partnership interests held by the legacy asset management business.  These gains were primarily allocated to noncontrolling interests and had no significant effect on the amounts of net income attributable to Aimco or the Aimco Operating Partnership during the year ended December 31, 2012 .  The remainder of the decrease in interest expense was due to lower average outstanding loan balances and interest rates.
Equity in Earnings or Income (Losses) of Unconsolidated Real Estate Partnerships Equity in earnings or losses of unconsolidated real estate partnerships includes our share of the net earnings or losses of our unconsolidated real estate partnerships, which may include impairment losses, gains or losses on the disposition of apartment communities or depreciation expense, which may exceed the net operating income recognized by such unconsolidated partnerships.
During 2012 and 2011, the majority of the equity in losses of unconsolidated real estate partnerships related to the legacy asset management business.  These amounts were attributed to noncontrolling interests and had no significant effect on the amounts of net income or loss attributable to Aimco or the Aimco Operating Partnership.  Following the sale of the legacy asset management business during late 2012, the equity in losses of these unconsolidated real estate partnerships is included in (loss) gain on dispositions and other, as further discussed below.
Gain on Dispositions of Unconsolidated Real Estate and Other Gain on dispositions of unconsolidated real estate and other includes gains or losses on disposition of interests in unconsolidated real estate partnerships, gains or losses on dispositions of land and other non-depreciable assets and certain costs related to asset disposal activities, which vary from period to period.  During 2013, gain on dispositions of unconsolidated real estate and other also includes the net results of operations related to the legacy asset management business, which we account for under the profit sharing method as further discussed in Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8.
During the year ended December 31, 2013 , we recognized $1.1 million of income related to the legacy asset management business, which is net of approximately $0.6 million of income tax expense.  We allocated $21.4 million of net losses to noncontrolling interests in the legacy asset management business, resulting in income of $22.5 million from the legacy asset management business attributable to Aimco and the Aimco Operating Partnership.  As described in Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8, $20.6 million of the losses allocated to noncontrolling interests related to the derecognition of residual noncontrolling interest balances related to partnerships that commenced dissolution in 2013.
During the years ended December31, 2012 and 2011 , we recognized $21.9 million and $2.4 million , respectively, in net gains on dispositions of unconsolidated real estate and other.  Approximately $15.7 million of the gains recognized during 2012 related to the sale of our interests in two unconsolidated real estate partnerships.   The majority of the remainder of the gains recognized in 2012 and substantially all the gains recognized in 2011 related to partnership interests held through the legacy asset management business, in which we had an insignificant economic interest.  Accordingly, these gains related to the legacy asset management business were attributed to noncontrolling interests and had no significant effect on the amounts of income or loss attributable to Aimco or the Aimco Operating Partnership during the years ended December31, 2012 and 2011.
29 Table of Contents Income Tax Benefit Certain of our operations or a portion thereof, including property management, asset management and risk management are conducted through TRS entities.  Income taxes related to the results of continuing operations of our TRS entities are included in income tax benefit in our consolidated statements of operations.
For the year ended December 31, 2013 , compared to the year ended December 31, 2012 , income tax benefit increased by $1.1 million from $0.9 million to $2.0 million , primarily due to a $3.9 million tax benefit associated with historic tax credits earned from the redevelopment of our Lincoln Place apartment community, partially offset by an increase in income tax expense resulting from taxable income earned by our TRS entities.
For the year ended December 31, 2012 , compared to the year ended December 31, 2011 , income tax benefit decreased by $5.1 million , from $5.9 million to $0.9 million , primarily due to decreases in tax benefits due to decreases in losses of our TRS entities, including the recovery during 2012 of previously recognized losses on our interest in Devco California LLC.
Income from Discontinued Operations, Net The results of operations for consolidated apartment communities sold during the period or designated as held for sale at the end of the period are required to be classified as discontinued operations for all periods presented.  The components of net earnings that are classified as discontinued operations include all property-related revenues and operating expenses, depreciation expense recognized prior to the classification as held for sale, property-specific interest expense and debt extinguishment gains and losses to the extent there is secured debt on the apartment community.  In addition, any impairment losses on assets held for sale and the net gain or loss on the eventual disposal of assets held for sale are reported in discontinued operations.
For the years ended December31, 2013 and 2012 , income from discontinued operations totaled $203.2 million and $214.1 million , respectively.  The $10.9 million decrease in income from discontinued operations was principally due to a $23.2 million decrease in gain on dispositions of real estate, net of income taxes, with the balance of the change resulting from an increase in operating income, net of interest expense, due to the timing and composition of sales.
For the years ended December31, 2012 and 2011 , income from discontinued operations totaled $214.1 million and $78.1 million , respectively.  The $136.0 million increase in income from discontinued operations was principally due to a $122.9 million increase in gain on dispositions of real estate, net of income taxes, with the balance of the change resulting from an increase in operating income, net of interest expense, due to the timing and composition of sales.
During the year ended December 31, 2013 , we sold 29 consolidated apartment communities for an aggregate sales price of $515.8 million , resulting in net proceeds of $233.1 million and a net gain of approximately $200.6 million (which is net of $11.8 million of related income taxes).  We sold 16 of our lowest-rated conventional apartment communities with average revenue per apartment home of $874, 40% below the average of our retained portfolio. Among the apartment communities sold were the last we held in Dallas-Fort Worth, Tampa, Daytona Beach and Naples, Florida and Detroit. We also sold 13 affordable apartment communities.
During the year ended December 31, 2012 , we sold 75 consolidated apartment communities for an aggregate sales price of $719.0 million, resulting in net proceeds of $289.9 million and a net gain of approximately $223.8 million (which is net of $10.7 million of related income taxes).  During the year ended December 31, 2011 , we sold 67 consolidated apartment communities for an aggregate sales price of $473.5 million, resulting in net proceeds of $185.6 million and a net gain of approximately $100.9 million (which is net of $7.3 million of related income taxes).
Net operating income, or NOI, capitalization rate and free cash flow, or FCF, capitalization rate are common benchmarks used in the real estate industry for relative comparison of real estate valuations, including for apartment community sales.  We calculate NOI capitalization rates using an apartment communitys trailing twelve month net operating income prior to sale, less a 3.0% management fee, divided by gross proceeds.  FCF represents an apartment communitys NOI less capital spending required to maintain the condition of the apartment community, and the FCF capitalization rate represents the rate of return generated by the FCF from the apartment community divided by the gross proceeds from its sale.  The NOI capitalization rates and FCF capitalization rates for our conventional and affordable apartment community sales during the years ended December31, 2013 , 2012 and 2011 , were as follows: 30 Table of Contents 2013 2012 2011 NOI capitalization rate: Conventional 7.6 % 6.2 % 7.0 % Affordable 5.8 % 8.3 % 9.0 % FCF capitalization rate: Conventional 5.8 % 4.8 % 4.8 % Affordable 4.8 % 5.7 % 5.8 % Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Real Estate Partnerships Noncontrolling interests in consolidated real estate partnerships reflects the results of our consolidated real estate partnerships allocated to the owners who are not affiliated with Aimco. The amounts of income or loss of our consolidated real estate partnerships that we allocate to owners not affiliated with Aimco include their share of property management fees, interest on notes and other amounts that we charge to these partnerships.
For the years ended December31, 2013 and 2012 , we allocated net income of $12.5 million and $51.2 million , respectively,  to noncontrolling interests in consolidated real estate partnerships, a decrease of $38.7 million . This decrease was primarily due to a $29.0 million reduction in the noncontrolling interest partners share of income from continuing operations, approximately $20.6 million of which was associated with the sales or dissolution of partnerships interests held by the legacy asset management business, resulting in the derecognition of residual noncontrolling interests balances related to these partnerships (see Note 3 to consolidated financial statements in Item 8). Income attributable to noncontrolling interests also decreased by $9.7 million of  income from discontinued operations resulting primarily from decreases in gains on dispositions of real estate.
For the year ended December 31, 2012 , we allocated net income of $51.2 million to noncontrolling interests in consolidated real estate partnerships, compared to $0.3 million of net losses allocated to these noncontrolling interests during the year ended December 31, 2011 , or a variance of $51.5 million .  This change was primarily due to a $42.1 million increase in the noncontrolling interest partners share of income from continuing operations primarily due to their share of decreases in interest expense (inclusive of debt forgiveness gains during 2012) and gains on dispositions of unconsolidated apartment communities in consolidated real estate partnerships.  These increases were also affected by ownership changes during the periods resulting from our acquisitions of noncontrolling interests in certain of our consolidated partnerships. This change was also due to a $9.4 million decrease in their share of income from discontinued operations.
Noncontrolling Interests in Aimco Operating Partnership In Aimcos consolidated financial statements, noncontrolling interests in Aimco Operating Partnership reflects the results of the Aimco Operating Partnership that are allocated to the holders of OP Units.  Aimco allocates the Aimco Operating Partnerships income or loss to the holders of common OP Units and equivalents based on the weighted average number of these units (including those held by Aimco) outstanding during the period.  The amount of the Aimco Operating Partnerships income allocated to holders of the preferred OP Units is equal to the amount of distributions they receive.
For the years ended December31, 2013 and 2012 , income allocated to noncontrolling interests in the Aimco Operating Partnership were $18.1 million and $11.7 million , respectively.  For the year ended December 31, 2011 , losses allocated to the noncontrolling interests in the Aimco Operating Partnership totaled $0.8 million .
Net Income Attributable to Aimco Preferred Stockholders and the Aimco Operating Partnerships Preferred Unitholders Net income attributable to Aimco preferred stockholders and the Aimco Operating Partnerships preferred unitholders both decreased significantly during the year ended December 31, 2013 , as compared to the year ended December 31, 2012 , due to the redemption by Aimco of $600.9 million of preferred stock during 2012, and the Aimco Operating Partnerships corresponding redemption of preferred units held by Aimco.
Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates We prepare our consolidated financial statements in accordance with GAAP, which requires us to make estimates and assumptions.  We believe that the following critical accounting policies involve our more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements.
Impairment of Long-Lived Assets Real estate and other long-lived assets to be held and used are stated at cost, less accumulated depreciation and amortization, unless the carrying amount of the asset is not recoverable.  If events or circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an 31 Table of Contents apartment community may not be recoverable, we make an assessment of its recoverability by comparing the carrying amount to our estimate of the undiscounted future cash flows, excluding interest charges, of the apartment community.  If the carrying amount exceeds the estimated aggregate undiscounted future cash flows, we recognize an impairment loss to the extent the carrying amount exceeds the estimated fair value of the apartment community.
From time to time, we have non-revenue producing apartment communities that we hold for future redevelopment.  We assess the recoverability of the carrying amount of these redevelopment apartment communities by comparing our estimate of undiscounted future cash flows based on the expected service potential of the redevelopment apartment community upon completion to the carrying amount.  In certain instances, we use a probability-weighted approach to determine our estimate of undiscounted future cash flows when alternative courses of action are under consideration.
Real estate investments are subject to varying degrees of risk.  Several factors may adversely affect the economic performance and value of our real estate investments.  These factors include:  the general economic climate;  competition from other apartment communities and other housing options;  local conditions, such as loss of jobs or an increase in the supply of apartments, that might adversely affect apartment occupancy or rental rates;  changes in governmental regulations and the related cost of compliance;  increases in operating costs (including real estate taxes) due to inflation and other factors, which may not be offset by increased rents;  changes in tax laws and housing laws, including the enactment of rent control laws or other laws regulating multifamily housing; and  changes in interest rates and the availability of financing.
Any adverse changes in these and other factors could cause an impairment of our long-lived assets, including real estate and investments in unconsolidated real estate partnerships.  As we execute our portfolio strategy over the next few years, we are evaluating alternatives to sell or reduce our interest in a significant number of apartment communities that do not align with our long-term investment strategy.  While there is no assurance that we will sell or reduce our investment in these apartment communities during the desired timeframe, the size of our portfolio is likely to change as we continue to execute our portfolio management strategy.  For any apartment communities that are sold or meet the criteria to be classified as held for sale during the next twelve months, the reduction in the estimated holding period for these apartment communities may result in additional impairment losses.
Capitalized Costs We capitalize costs, including certain indirect costs, incurred in connection with our capital additions activities, including redevelopment, development and construction projects, other tangible apartment community improvements and replacements of existing apartment community components.  Included in these capitalized costs are payroll costs associated with time spent by site employees in connection with the planning, execution and control of all capital additions activities at the apartment community level.  We characterize as indirect costs an allocation of certain department costs, including payroll, at the area operations and corporate levels that clearly relate to capital additions activities. We also capitalize interest, property taxes and insurance during periods in which redevelopment, development and construction projects are in progress.  We commence capitalization of costs, including certain indirect costs, incurred in connection with our capital addition activities, at the point in time when activities necessary to get apartment communities ready for their intended use are in progress.  This includes when apartment communities or apartment homes are undergoing physical construction, as well as when apartment homes are held vacant in advance of planned construction, provided that other activities such as permitting, planning and design are in progress.  We cease the capitalization of costs when the assets are substantially complete and ready for their intended use, which is typically when construction has been completed and apartment homes are available for occupancy. We charge to property operating expense, as incurred, costs including ordinary repairs, maintenance and resident turnover costs.  Refer to the discussion of investing activities within the Liquidity and Capital Resources section for a summary of costs capitalized during the periods presented.
32 Table of Contents Funds From Operations and Adjusted Funds From Operations Funds From Operations, or FFO, is a non-GAAP financial measure that we believe, when considered with the financial statements determined in accordance with GAAP, is helpful to investors in understanding our performance because it captures features particular to real estate performance by recognizing that real estate generally appreciates over time or maintains residual value to a much greater extent than do other depreciable assets such as machinery, computers or other personal property.  The National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts, or NAREIT, defines FFO as net income or loss computed in accordance with GAAP, excluding gains from sales of, and impairment losses recognized with respect to, depreciable property, plus depreciation and amortization, and after adjustments for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures.  Adjustments for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures are calculated on the same basis to determine FFO.  We calculate FFO attributable to Aimco common stockholders (diluted) by subtracting, if dilutive, redemption or repurchase related preferred stock issuance costs and dividends on preferred stock, and adding back dividends/distributions on dilutive preferred securities and premiums or discounts on preferred stock redemptions or repurchases.
In addition to FFO, we compute Pro forma FFO and Adjusted FFO, or AFFO, which are also non-GAAP financial measures that we believe are helpful to investors in understanding our performance.  Pro forma FFO represents FFO attributable to Aimco common stockholders (diluted), excluding preferred equity redemption-related amounts (adjusted for noncontrolling interests).  Preferred equity redemption-related amounts (gains or losses) are items that periodically affect our operating results and we exclude these items from our calculation of Pro forma FFO because such amounts are not representative of our operating performance.  AFFO represents Pro forma FFO reduced by Capital Replacements (also adjusted for noncontrolling interests), which represents our estimation of the capital additions required to maintain the value of our portfolio during our ownership period.  When we make capital additions at an apartment community, we evaluate whether the additions enhance the value, profitability or useful life of an asset as compared to its condition at the time we purchased the asset.  We classify as Capital Improvements those capital additions that meet these criteria and we classify as Capital Replacements those that do not.  AFFO is a key financial indicator we use to evaluate our operational performance and is used to help determine the amounts of our dividend payments.
FFO, Pro forma FFO and AFFO should not be considered alternatives to net income (loss) or net cash flows from operating activities, as determined in accordance with GAAP, as indications of our performance or as measures of liquidity.  Although we use these non-GAAP measures for comparability in assessing our performance against other REITs, not all REITs compute these same measures.  Additionally, computation of AFFO is subject to definitions of capital spending, which are subjective. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that our basis for computing these non-GAAP measures is comparable with that of other REITs.  For the years ended December31, 2013 , 2012 and 2011 , Aimcos FFO, Pro forma FFO and AFFO are calculated as follows (in thousands): 33 Table of Contents 2013 2012 2011 Net income (loss) attributable to Aimco common stockholders (1) $ 203,673 $ 82,146 $ (103,161 ) Adjustments: Depreciation and amortization, net of noncontrolling partners interest 282,235 310,047 303,810 Depreciation and amortization related to non-real estate assets, net of noncontrolling partners interest (11,273 ) (13,000 ) (12,539 ) Gain on dispositions of unconsolidated real estate and other, net of noncontrolling partners interest (19,321 ) (15,399 ) (2,156 ) Provision for impairment losses related to depreciable real estate assets, net of noncontrolling partners interest  7,263 4,043 Discontinued operations: Gain on dispositions of real estate, net of income taxes and noncontrolling partners interest (165,061 ) (185,107 ) (60,736 ) (Recovery of) provision for impairment losses related to depreciable real estate assets, net of noncontrolling partners interest (855 ) 14,517 16,229 Depreciation of rental property, net of noncontrolling partners interest 13,349 35,621 57,748 Common noncontrolling interests in Aimco Operating Partnerships share of above adjustments (2) (5,346 ) (9,127 ) (20,868 ) Amounts allocable to participating securities (377 ) (503 ) (556 ) FFO attributable to Aimco common stockholders  diluted $ 297,024 $ 226,458 $ 181,814 Preferred equity redemption related amounts  22,626 (3,904 ) Common noncontrolling interests in Aimco Operating Partnerships share of above adjustments  (1,341 ) 266 Amounts allocable to participating securities  (87 ) 16 Pro forma FFO attributable to Aimco common stockholders  diluted $ 297,024 $ 247,656 $ 178,192 Capital Replacements, net of common noncontrolling interests in Aimco Operating Partnership and participating securities (75,067 ) (66,722 ) (73,802 ) AFFO attributable to Aimco common stockholders  diluted $ 221,957 $ 180,934 $ 104,390 Weighted average common shares outstanding   diluted (earnings per share) 145,532 134,479 119,312 Dilutive common share equivalents  264 314 Weighted average common shares outstanding  diluted (FFO, Pro forma FFO and AFFO) (3) 145,532 134,743 119,626 (1) Represents the numerator for calculating Aimcos earnings per common share in accordance with GAAP (see Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8).
(2) During the years ended December31, 2013 , 2012 and 2011 , the Aimco Operating Partnership had outstanding 7,965,431, 8,134,774 and 8,368,855 common OP Units and equivalents.
(3) Represents the denominator for Aimcos earnings per common share  diluted, calculated in accordance with GAAP, plus common share equivalents that are dilutive for FFO, Pro forma FFO and AFFO.
For the year ended December31, 2013 as compared to the 2012 , Pro forma FFO increased 11% (on a diluted per share basis) as a result of improved property operating results and lower offsite costs.  These positive results were somewhat offset by higher interest expense and lower income from discontinued operations.  For the same period, AFFO increased 14% (on a diluted per share basis), as a result of the Pro forma FFO growth as well as a decrease in Capital Replacements spending as a percentage of net operating income.  An increase in 2013 Capital Replacement spending related to multi-phase capital projects was offset by a reduction in Standard Capital Replacements due to the sale of approximately 18,000 apartment homes during 2012 and 2013.  As we concentrate our investment capital in higher quality, higher price-point properties, Capital Replacements decline as a percentage of net operating income.  Refer to the Liquidity and Capital Resources section for further information regarding our Capital Replacements and other capital investing activities.
The Aimco Operating Partnership does not separately compute or report FFO, Pro forma FFO or AFFO.  However, based on Aimcos method for allocation of amounts of FFO, Pro forma FFO and AFFO to noncontrolling interests in the Aimco Operating Partnership, as well as the limited differences between Aimcos and the Aimco Operating Partnerships net loss amounts during the periods presented, FFO, Pro forma FFO and AFFO amounts on a per unit basis for the Aimco Operating Partnership would be expected to be substantially the same as the corresponding per share amounts for Aimco.
34 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources Liquidity is the ability to meet present and future financial obligations.  Our primary source of liquidity is cash flow from our operations. Additional sources are proceeds from sales of apartment communities, proceeds from refinancings of existing property debt, borrowings under new property debt, borrowings under our Credit Agreement and proceeds from equity offerings.
Our principal uses for liquidity include normal operating activities, payments of principal and interest on outstanding property debt, capital expenditures, dividends paid to stockholders, distributions paid to noncontrolling interest partners and acquisitions of, and investments in, apartment communities.  We use our cash and cash equivalents and our cash provided by operating activities to meet short-term liquidity needs.  In the event that our cash and cash equivalents and cash provided by operating activities are not sufficient to cover our short-term liquidity needs, we have additional means, such as short-term borrowing availability and proceeds from apartment community sales and refinancings.  We may use our Credit Agreement for working capital and other short-term purposes, such as funding investments on an interim basis. We expect to meet our long-term liquidity requirements, such as debt maturities and apartment community acquisitions, through long-term borrowings, primarily secured, the issuance of equity securities (including OP Units), the sale of apartment communities and cash generated from operations.
The availability of credit and its related effect on the overall economy may affect our liquidity and future financing activities, both through changes in interest rates and access to financing.  Currently, interest rates are low compared to historical levels and many lenders are active in the market.  However, any adverse changes in the lending environment could negatively affect our liquidity.  We believe we have mitigated much of this exposure by reducing our short and intermediate term maturity risk through refinancing such loans with long-dated, fixed-rate property debt.  However, if financing options become unavailable for our further debt needs, we may consider alternative sources of liquidity, such as reductions in capital spending or proceeds from asset dispositions.
At December31, 2013 , we had $55.8 million in cash and cash equivalents and $127.0 million of restricted cash, decreases of $28.7 million and $18.5 million , respectively, from December31, 2012 .  Restricted cash primarily consists of reserves and escrows held by lenders for bond sinking funds, capital additions, property taxes and insurance, and escrows related to resident security deposits.
The following discussion relates to changes in cash due to operating, investing and financing activities, which are presented in our consolidated statements of cash flows in Item 8.
Operating Activities For the year ended December 31, 2013 , our net cash provided by operating activities of $325.6 million was primarily related to operating income from our consolidated apartment communities, which is affected primarily by rental rates, occupancy levels and operating expenses related to our portfolio of apartment communities, in excess payments of operating accounts payable and accrued liabilities. Cash provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2013 , increased by $8.8 million as compared to the year ended December 31, 2012 , primarily due to a decrease in the amount of cash we paid for interest, an increase in the net operating income of the apartment communities included in continuing operations, and the repayment of accrued interest related to the West Harlem property loans receivable discussed in Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8.  These increases in cash from operating activities were partially offset by a decrease in the net operating income of our apartment communities included in discontinued operations due to our sales of apartment communities during 2013 and 2012.
Investing Activities For the year ended December 31, 2013 , our net cash provided by investing activities of $65.2 million consisted primarily of capital expenditures and purchases of real estate, partially offset by proceeds from dispositions of real estate and the net proceeds from the repayment of the principal associated with the West Harlem property loans receivable and related purchase option discussed in Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8.
Capital expenditures totaled $350.3 million , $270.2 million , and $200.4 million during the years ended December31, 2013 , 2012 and 2011 , respectively. We generally fund capital additions with cash provided by operating activities and cash proceeds from apartment community sales.  We categorize our capital spending broadly into five primary categories: Capital Replacements (consisting of standard Capital Replacements and those relating to multi-phase projects), Property Upgrades, Capital Improvements, redevelopment and development, and casualty replacements spending.  We monitor our spending in these categories based on capital additions related to apartment communities that we own and manage, and we do not include in these measures capital spending related to apartment communities sold or classified as held for sale at the end of the period, commercial space or fitness facilities at our communities, or apartment communities we own but do not manage.  A summary of the capital spending for these categories, along with a reconciliation of the total for these categories to the capital expenditures reported in the accompanying 35 Table of Contents consolidated statements of cash flow for the years ended December31, 2013 , 2012 , and 2011 , are presented below (dollars in thousands): 2013 2012 2011 Capital Replacements: Standard $ 48,204 $ 53,849 $ 65,772 Multi-phase projects 22,314 4,425  Property Upgrades 39,059 45,702 23,569 Capital Improvements 57,773 35,590 34,652 Redevelopment and development additions 194,159 100,085 33,173 Casualty replacements 9,262 12,033 9,812 Total capital additions 370,771 251,684 166,978 Less: additions related to unconsolidated partnerships  (1,226 ) (461 ) Plus: additions related to sold apartment communities 4,831 20,501 40,214 Plus: additions related to consolidated apartment communities not managed, commercial space, fitness facilities and other 436 1,144 533 Consolidated capital additions 376,038 272,103 207,264 Plus: net change in accrued capital spending (25,700 ) (1,893 ) (6,892 ) Capital expenditures per consolidated statement of cash flows $ 350,338 $ 270,210 $ 200,372 Capital spending related to redevelopment and development and Capital Improvements increased significantly during the year ended December 31, 2013 , as compared to the year ended December 31, 2012 , due to ongoing projects and new projects we commenced in 2012.  Capital spending related to redevelopment and Property Upgrades increased significantly in the year ended December 31, 2012 , as compared to the year ended December 31, 2011, due to the commencement during 2012 of large redevelopment projects and large projects for Property Upgrades, primarily the installation of simulated wood flooring at certain of our apartment communities.
During the year ended December 31, 2013 , we completed the Baywalk redevelopment at our Flamingo South Beach apartment community located in Miami, Florida, for a total project cost of $4.6 million, and we completed the construction of 28 townhomes at our Elm Creek apartment community located in Elmhurst, IL, for a total project cost of $12.0 million.
During the year ended December 31, 2013 , we continued the redevelopment of four apartment communities that were started during 2012. In addition, we substantially completed the Capital Replacement and Capital Improvement phase of our multi-phase capital projects at 2900 on First, located in Seattle, Washington, and Park Towne Place and The Sterling, both located in Center City Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, and we began the redevelopment phase of a project at The Sterling, which includes renovation of common areas and commercial space, as well as the upgrade of 69 apartment homes.  Additional apartment homes may be upgraded in the future.  We expect the redevelopment of 2900 on First and Park Towne Place to begin during 2014.  We expect our conventional redevelopment spending for 2014 to range from approximately $125 million to $150 million.
Information regarding our active redevelopment projects at December31, 2013 , is presented below (dollars in millions): Anticipated Schedule Total Number of Apartment Homes Estimated Total Project Cost Inception-to-Date Investment Construction Start Initial Occupancy Construction Complete Stabilized Operations Lincoln Place, Venice, CA 795 $ 350 $ 294.9 Multiple Multiple 4Q 2014 1Q 2015 Pacific Bay Vistas, San Bruno, CA 308 121 106.3 4Q 2011 3Q 2013 2Q 2014 3Q 2014 The Palazzo at Park La Brea, Los Angeles, CA 521 16 9.7 1Q 2012 4Q 2012 3Q 2014 4Q 2014 The Preserve at Marin, Corte Madera, CA 126 101 81.8 4Q 2012 1Q 2014 3Q 2014 4Q 2014 The Sterling, Philadelphia, PA 537 25 3.5 4Q 2013 3Q 2014 2Q 2015 3Q 2015 Total 2,287 $ 613 $ 496.2 During the year ended December 31, 2013 , we also broke ground on the One Canal Street development, a 12 -story apartment community in Boston, Massachusetts.  We expect to invest approximately $190 million over the next two and one-half years to 36 Table of Contents construct 310 luxury apartment homes and approximately 22,000 square feet of commercial space.  The development will be funded in part by a $114.0 million construction loan and in part by proceeds from sales of lower rated apartment communities in less desirable submarkets.  Through December31, 2013 , we have incurred approximately $15.9 million of costs related to this development, and we expect to invest approximately $60 million to $70 million in this project during 2014.
For the years ended December31, 2013 , 2012 and 2011 , we capitalized $17.6 million , $16.6 million and $14.0 million of interest costs, respectively, and $33.2 million , $33.7 million and $29.0 million of other direct and indirect costs, respectively.
Financing Activities For the year ended December 31, 2013 , our net cash used in financing activities of $419.5 million was primarily attributed to principal payments on property debt, dividends paid to common security holders and distributions paid to and acquisitions of noncontrolling interests, partially offset by proceeds from property debt.
Property Debt At December31, 2013 and 2012 , we had $4.3 billion and $4.7 billion , respectively, of consolidated property debt outstanding, which, at December31, 2012 , included $278.5 million of property debt classified within liabilities related to assets held for sale.  Approximately 3.1% of our property debt at December31, 2013 , was variable rate.  Although we are sometimes required by the limited partners in our consolidated real estate partnerships to limit our exposure to interest rate fluctuations by entering into interest swap agreements, which moderate our exposure to interest rate risk by effectively converting the interest on variable rate debt to a fixed rate, our exposure to such derivative instruments is limited.  We intend to continue to refinance property debt primarily as a means of extending current and near term maturities and to finance certain capital projects.
Credit Agreement Our Credit Agreement provides for $600.0 million of revolving loan commitments.  Borrowings under the Credit Agreement bear interest at a rate set forth on a pricing grid which rate varies based on our leverage (initially either LIBOR, plus 1.875%, or, at our option, Prime plus 0.5% ).  The Credit Agreement matures in September 2017, and may be extended for an additional one-year period, subject to certain conditions.
As of December31, 2013 , we had $50.4 million of outstanding borrowings under our Credit Agreement, and we had the capacity to borrow $505.0 million , net of the outstanding borrowings and $44.6 million for undrawn letters of credit backed by the Credit Agreement.  The interest rate on our outstanding borrowings was 3.75% at December31, 2013 .  The proceeds of revolving loans are generally used for working capital and other short-term purposes.
Equity and Partners Capital Transactions During the year ended December 31, 2013 , Aimco paid cash dividends or distributions totaling $2.8 million and $140.1 million , respectively, to preferred stockholders and common stockholders.
During the year ended December 31, 2013 , the Aimco Operating Partnership paid cash distributions totaling $9.2 million and $147.7 million to preferred unitholders and common unitholders, respectively, of which $2.8 million and $140.1 million , respectively, represented distributions to Aimco, and $6.4 million and $7.6 million , respectively, represented distributions paid to holders of OP Units.  The distributions paid to the holders OP Units are reflected as distributions to noncontrolling interests in the Aimco Operating Partnership within Aimcos consolidated financial statements.
During the year ended December 31, 2013 , Aimco and the Aimco Operating Partnership paid cash distributions of $49.7 million to holders of noncontrolling interests in consolidated real estate partnerships, primarily related to apartment community sales during 2013 and late 2012.
Pursuant to At-The-Market offering programs active at December31, 2013 , Aimco has the capacity to issue up to 3.5 million shares of its Common Stock and 3.5 million shares of its Class Z Cumulative Preferred Stock.  In the event of any such issuances, Aimco would contribute the net proceeds to the Aimco Operating Partnership in exchange for a number of common partnership units or Class Z Partnership Preferred Units, as the case may be, equal to the number of shares issued and sold.  Additionally, the Aimco Operating Partnership and Aimco have a shelf registration statement that provides for the issuance of debt securities by the Aimco Operating Partnership and equity securities by Aimco.
During the year ended December 31, 2013 , we acquired the remaining noncontrolling limited partnership interests in three consolidated real estate partnerships that own five apartment communities and for which our affiliates serve as general partner, for a total cost of $17.9 million , and we redeemed approximately 105,000 common OP Units for cash of $3.1 million.
37 Table of Contents Contractual Obligations This table summarizes information contained elsewhere in this Annual Report regarding payments due under contractual obligations and commitments as of December31, 2013 (amounts in thousands): Total Less than  One Year 2-3 Years 4-5 Years More than Five Years Long-term debt (1) $ 4,337,785 $ 170,202 $ 822,442 $ 790,028 $ 2,555,113 Interest related to long-term debt (2) 1,598,573 233,714 419,229 319,609 626,021 Office space lease obligations 10,766 3,249 4,691 2,826  Ground lease obligations (3) 27,100 973 1,947 1,947 22,233 Construction obligations (4) 229,955 148,222 81,733   Total $ 6,204,179 $ 556,360 $ 1,330,042 $ 1,114,410 $ 3,203,367 (1) Includes scheduled principal amortization and maturity payments related to our long-term debt.
(2) Includes interest related to both fixed rate and variable rate debt.  Interest related to variable rate debt is estimated based on the rate effective at December31, 2013 .  Refer to Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 for a description of average interest rates associated with our debt.
(3) These ground leases mature in years ranging from 2037 to 2084.
(4) Represents estimated obligations pursuant to construction contracts related to our development, redevelopment and other capital projects.  Refer to Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 for additional information regarding these obligations.
In addition to the amounts presented in the table above, at December31, 2013 , we were obligated to make dividend payments on $68.9 million (liquidation value) of perpetual preferred stock outstanding with a weighted average annual dividend yield of 4.0% and distribution payments on $79.1 million (liquidation value) of redeemable preferred OP Units of the Aimco Operating Partnership outstanding with annual distribution yields ranging from 1.8% to 8.8%.  For the year ended December31, 2013 , the dividend payments on our perpetual preferred stock totaled $2.8 million and the distributions payments on the Aimco Operating Partnerships preferred OP Units totaled $6.4 million .
Additionally, we may enter into commitments to purchase goods and services in connection with the operations of our apartment communities. Those commitments generally have terms of one year or less and reflect expenditure levels comparable to our historical expenditures.
Future Capital Needs In addition to the items set forth in Contractual Obligations above, we expect to fund any future acquisitions, redevelopment and development projects, Capital Improvements and Capital Replacements principally with proceeds from apartment community sales (including tax-free exchange proceeds), short-term borrowings, debt and equity financing and operating cash flows.
Item 7A.
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Our primary market risk exposure is to the availability of property debt or other cash sources to refund maturing property debt and to changes in base interest rates and credit risk spreads. Our liabilities are not subject to any other material market rate or price risks. We use predominantly long-term, fixed-rate non-recourse property debt in order to avoid the refunding and repricing risks of short-term borrowings. We use short-term debt financing and working capital primarily to fund short-term uses and acquisitions and generally expect to refinance such borrowings with cash from operating activities, proceeds from apartment community sales, long-term debt or equity financings.  We make limited use of other derivative financial instruments and we do not use them for trading or other speculative purposes.
As of December31, 2013 , on a consolidated basis, we had approximately $195.4 million of variable-rate indebtedness outstanding and $37.0 million of variable rate preferred securities outstanding.  We estimate that an increase in 30-day LIBOR of 100 basis points with constant credit risk spreads would result in our net income and the amount of net income attributable to our common security holders (including Aimco common stockholders and the Aimco Operating Partnerships common unitholders) being reduced (or the amounts of net loss and net loss attributable to our common equity holders being increased) by approximately $1.6 million and $1.8 million , respectively, on an annual basis.
At December31, 2013 , we had approximately $182.8 million in cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash, a portion of which bear interest at variable rates and may mitigate the effect of an increase in variable rates on our variable-rate indebtedness and preferred stock discussed above.
38 Table of Contents We estimate the fair value for our debt instruments as described in Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8.  The estimated aggregate fair value of our consolidated debt (inclusive of outstanding borrowings under our Credit Agreement) was approximately $4.5 billion at December31, 2013 ($4.4 billion on a proportionate basis, including our share of the property debt of unconsolidated partnerships).  The combined carrying value of our consolidated debt was approximately $4.4 billion at December31, 2013 ($4.2 billion on a proportionate basis).  If market rates for our fixed-rate debt were higher by 100 basis points with constant credit risk spreads, the estimated fair value of our debt discussed above would have decreased from $4.5 billion to $4.3 billion (from $4.4 billion to $4.2 billion on a proportionate basis).  If market rates for our debt discussed above were lower by 100 basis points with constant credit risk spreads, the estimated fair value of our fixed-rate debt would have increased from $4.5 billion to $4.7 billion (from $4.4 billion to $4.6 billion on a proportionate basis).
Item 8.
Financial Statements and Supplementary Data The independent registered public accounting firms reports, consolidated financial statements and schedule listed in the accompanying index are filed as part of this report and incorporated herein by this reference. See Index to Financial Statements on page F-1 of this Annual Report.
Item 9.
Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure None.
39 Table of Contents Item 9A.
Controls and Procedures Aimco Disclosure Controls and Procedures Aimcos management, with the participation of Aimcos chief executive officer and chief financial officer, has evaluated the effectiveness of its disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act)) as of the end of the period covered by this report.  Based on such evaluation, Aimcos chief executive officer and chief financial officer have concluded that, as of the end of such period, Aimcos disclosure controls and procedures are effective.
Managements Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting Aimcos management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting.  Internal control over financial reporting is defined in Rule 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Exchange Act as a process designed by, or under the supervision of, our principal executive and principal financial officers and effected by our Board of Directors, management and other personnel to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and includes those policies and procedures that:  pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of assets;  provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures are being made only in accordance with authorizations of our management and directors; and  provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.  Projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risks that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
Management assessed the effectiveness of Aimco's internal control over financial reporting as of December31, 2013 .  In making this assessment, management used the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) in Internal Control-Integrated Framework (1992 Framework).
Based on their assessment, management concluded that, as of December31, 2013 , Aimco's internal control over financial reporting is effective.
Aimco's independent registered public accounting firm has issued an attestation report on Aimco's internal control over financial reporting.
Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting There has been no change in Aimcos internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Exchange Act) during the fourth quarter of 2013 that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, Aimcos internal control over financial reporting.
40 Table of Contents Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm The Board of Directors and Stockholders of Apartment Investment and Management Company We have audited Apartment Investment and Management Companys (the Company) internal control over financial reporting as of December31, 2013 , based on criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (1992 Framework) (the COSO criteria). The Companys management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting included in the accompanying Managements Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Companys internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.
We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
A companys internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A companys internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the companys assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
In our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December31, 2013 , based on the COSO criteria.
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheets of the Company as of December31, 2013 and 2012 , and the related consolidated statements of operations, comprehensive income (loss), equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December31, 2013 , and our report dated February21, 2014 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.
/s/ ERNST & YOUNG LLP Denver, Colorado February21, 2014 41 Table of Contents The Aimco Operating Partnership Disclosure Controls and Procedures The Aimco Operating Partnerships management, with the participation of the chief executive officer and chief financial officer of Aimco, who are the equivalent of the Aimco Operating Partnerships chief executive officer and chief financial officer, respectively, has evaluated the effectiveness of the Aimco Operating Partnerships disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act)) as of the end of the period covered by this report.  Based on such evaluation, the chief executive officer and chief financial officer of Aimco have concluded that, as of the end of such period, the Aimco Operating Partnerships disclosure controls and procedures are effective.
Managements Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting Management of the Aimco Operating Partnership is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting.  Internal control over financial reporting is defined in Rule 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Exchange Act as a process designed by, or under the supervision of, our principal executive and principal financial officers and effected by our Board of Directors, management and other personnel to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and includes those policies and procedures that:  pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of assets;  provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures are being made only in accordance with authorizations of our management and directors; and  provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.  Projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risks that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
Management assessed the effectiveness of the Aimco Operating Partnership's internal control over financial reporting as of December31, 2013 .  In making this assessment, management used the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) in Internal Control-Integrated Framework (1992 Framework).
Based on their assessment, management concluded that, as of December31, 2013 , the Aimco Operating Partnership's internal control over financial reporting is effective.
The Aimco Operating Partnerships independent registered public accounting firm has issued an attestation report on the Aimco Operating Partnership's internal control over financial reporting.
Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting There has been no change in the Aimco Operating Partnerships internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Exchange Act) during the fourth quarter of 2013 that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the Aimco Operating Partnerships  internal control over financial reporting.
42 Table of Contents Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm The Partners of AIMCO Properties, L.P.
We have audited AIMCO Properties, L.P.s (the Partnership) internal control over financial reporting as of December31, 2013 , based on criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework (1992) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (1992 Framework) (the COSO criteria). The Partnerships management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting included in the accompanying Managements Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Partnerships internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.
We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
A companys internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A companys internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the companys assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
In our opinion, the Partnership maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December31, 2013 , based on the COSO criteria.
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheets of the Partnership as of December31, 2013 and 2012 , and the related consolidated statements of operations, comprehensive income (loss), partners capital, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December31, 2013 , and our report dated February21, 2014 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.
/s/ ERNST & YOUNG LLP Denver, Colorado February21, 2014 43 Table of Contents Item 9B.
Other Information None.
PART III Item 10.
Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance Each member of the board of directors of Aimco also is a director of the general partner of the Aimco Operating Partnership.  The officers of Aimco are also the officers of the general partner of the Aimco Operating Partnership and hold the same titles.  The information required by this item for both Aimco and the Aimco Operating Partnership is presented jointly under the captions Board of Directors and Executive Officers, Corporate Governance Matters - Code of Ethics, Other Matters - Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance, Corporate Governance Matters - Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee, Corporate Governance Matters - Audit Committee and Corporate Governance Matters - Audit Committee Financial Expert in the proxy statement for Aimcos 2014 annual meeting of stockholders and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 11.
Executive Compensation The information required by this item is presented under the captions Compensation Discussion & Analysis, Compensation and Human Resources Committee Report to Stockholders, Summary Compensation Table, Grants of Plan-Based Awards in 2013 , Outstanding Equity Awards at Fiscal Year End 2013 , Option Exercises and Stock Vested in 2013 , Potential Payments Upon Termination or Change in Control and Corporate Governance Matters - Director Compensation in the proxy statement for Aimcos 2014 annual meeting of stockholders and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 12.
Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters The information required by this item, for both Aimco and the Aimco Operating Partnership, is presented under the captions Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Securities Authorized for Issuance Under Equity Compensation Plans in the proxy statement for Aimcos 2014 annual meeting of stockholders and is incorporated herein by reference.  In addition, as of February20, 2014 , Aimco, through its consolidated subsidiaries, held 94.9% of the Aimco Operating Partnerships common partnership units outstanding.
Item 13.
Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence The information required by this item is presented under the caption Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Corporate Governance Matters - Independence of Directors in the proxy statement for Aimcos 2014 annual meeting of stockholders and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 14.
Principal Accountant Fees and Services The information required by this item is presented under the caption Principal Accountant Fees and Services in the proxy statement for Aimcos 2014 annual meeting of stockholders and is incorporated herein by reference.
44 Table of Contents PART IV Item 15.
Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules (a)(1) The financial statements listed in the Index to Financial Statements on Page F-1 of this report are filed as part of this report and incorporated herein by reference.
(a)(2) The financial statement schedule listed in the Index to Financial Statements on Page F-1 of this report is filed as part of this report and incorporated herein by reference.
(a)(3) The Exhibit Index is incorporated herein by reference.
INDEX TO EXHIBITS (1) (2) EXHIBIT NO.
DESCRIPTION 3.1 Charter (Exhibit 3.1 to Aimcos Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended September 30, 2012, is incorporated herein by this reference) 3.2 Amended and Restated Bylaws (Exhibit 3.2 to Aimcos Current Report on Form 8-K dated February 2, 2010, is incorporated herein by this reference) 10.1 Fourth Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership of the Aimco Operating Partnership, dated as of July 29, 1994, as amended and restated as of February 28, 2007 (Exhibit 10.1 to Aimcos Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006, is incorporated herein by this reference) 10.2 First Amendment to Fourth Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership of the Aimco Operating Partnership, dated as of December 31, 2007 (Exhibit 10.1 to Aimcos Current Report on Form 8-K, dated December 31, 2007, is incorporated herein by this reference) 10.3 Second Amendment to the Fourth Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership of the Aimco Operating Partnership, dated as of July 30, 2009 (Exhibit 10.1 to Aimcos Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended June 30, 2009, is incorporated herein by this reference) 10.4 Third Amendment to the Fourth Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership of the Aimco Operating Partnership, dated as of September 2, 2010 (Exhibit 10.1 to Aimcos Current Report on Form 8-K, dated September 3, 2010, is incorporated herein by this reference) 10.5 Fourth Amendment to the Fourth Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership of the Aimco Operating Partnership, dated as of July26, 2011 (Exhibit 10.1 to Aimcos Current Report on Form 8-K, dated July 26, 2011, is incorporated herein by this reference) 10.6 Fifth Amendment to the Fourth Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership of the Aimco Operating Partnership, dated as of August24, 2011 (Exhibit 10.1 to Aimcos Current Report on Form 8-K, dated August 24, 2011, is incorporated herein by this reference) 10.7 Sixth Amendment to the Fourth Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership of the Aimco Operating Partnership, dated as of December 31, 2011 (Exhibit 10.1 to Aimcos Current Report on Form 8-K, dated December 31, 2011, is incorporated herein by this reference) 10.8 Senior Secured Credit Agreement, dated as of December 13, 2011, among Aimco, the Aimco Operating Partnership, AIMCO/Bethesda Holdings, Inc., the lenders from time to time party thereto, KeyBank National Association, as administrative agent, swing line lender and a letter of credit issuer, Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., as syndication agent and Bank of America, N.A. and Regions Bank, as co-documentation agents (Exhibit 10.1 to Aimcos Current Report on Form 8-K, dated December 13, 2011, is incorporated herein by this reference) 10.9 First Amendment to Senior Secured Credit Agreement, dated as of April 5, 2013, by and among Aimco, the Aimco Partnership, AIMCO/Bethesda Holdings, Inc., Keybank National Association, as Agent for itself and the other lenders from time to time a party to the Senior Secured Credit Agreement (Exhibit 10.1 to Aimcos Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2013, is incorporated herein by this reference) 10.10 Second Amendment to Credit Agreement and Joinder to Guaranty, dated as of September 30, 2013, among Aimco, the Aimco Operating Partnership, AIMCO/Bethesda Holdings, Inc., the guarantors party thereto, the lenders party thereto and KeyBank National Association, as administrative agent (Exhibit 10.1 to Aimcos Current Report on Form 8-K, dated September 30, 2013, is incorporated herein by this reference) 10.11 Master Indemnification Agreement, dated December 3, 2001, by and among Aimco, the Aimco Operating Partnership., XYZ Holdings LLC, and the other parties signatory thereto (Exhibit 2.3 to Aimcos Current Report on Form 8-K, dated December 6, 2001, is incorporated herein by this reference) 45 Table of Contents 10.12 Tax Indemnification and Contest Agreement, dated December 3, 2001, by and among Aimco, National Partnership Investments, Corp., and XYZ Holdings LLC and the other parties signatory thereto (Exhibit 2.4 to Aimcos Current Report on Form 8-K, dated December 6, 2001, is incorporated herein by this reference) 10.13 Employment Contract executed on December 29, 2008, by and between the Aimco Operating Partnership and Terry Considine (Exhibit 10.1 to Aimcos Current Report on Form 8-K, dated December 29, 2008, is incorporated herein by this reference)* 10.14 Apartment Investment and Management Company 1997 Stock Award and Incentive Plan (October 1999) (Exhibit 10.26 to Aimcos Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1999, is incorporated herein by this reference)* 10.15 Form of Restricted Stock Agreement (1997 Stock Award and Incentive Plan) (Exhibit 10.11 to Aimcos Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended September 30, 1997, is incorporated herein by this reference)* 10.16 Form of Incentive Stock Option Agreement (1997 Stock Award and Incentive Plan) (Exhibit 10.42 to Aimcos Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1998, is incorporated herein by this reference)* 10.17 2007 Stock Award and Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Appendix A to Aimcos Proxy Statement on Schedule 14A filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 20, 2007)* 10.18 Form of Restricted Stock Agreement (Exhibit 10.2 to Aimcos Current Report on Form 8-K, dated April 30, 2007, is incorporated herein by this reference)* 10.19 Form of Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement (Exhibit 10.3 to Aimcos Current Report on Form 8-K, dated April 30, 2007, is incorporated herein by this reference)* 10.20 2007 Employee Stock Purchase Plan (incorporated by reference to Appendix B to Aimcos Proxy Statement on Schedule 14A filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 20, 2007)* 21.1 List of Subsidiaries 23.1 Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm - Aimco 23.2 Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm - Aimco Operating Partnership 31.1 Certification of Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Securities Exchange Act Rules 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a), as Adopted Pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 - Aimco 31.2 Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Securities Exchange Act Rules 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a), as Adopted Pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 - Aimco 31.3 Certification of Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Securities Exchange Act Rules 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a), as Adopted Pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 - Aimco Operating Partnership 31.4 Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Securities Exchange Act Rules 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a), as Adopted Pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 - Aimco Operating Partnership 32.1 Certification Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as Adopted Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 - Aimco 32.2 Certification Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as Adopted Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 - Aimco 32.3 Certification Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as Adopted Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 - Aimco Operating Partnership 32.4 Certification Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as Adopted Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 - Aimco Operating Partnership 99.1 Agreement re:  disclosure of long-term debt instruments - Aimco 99.2 Agreement re:  disclosure of long-term debt instruments - Aimco Operating Partnership 101 XBRL (Extensible Business Reporting Language). The following materials from Aimcos and the Aimco Operating Partnerships combined Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2013, formatted in XBRL: (i) consolidated balance sheets; (ii) consolidated statements of operations; (iii) consolidated statements of comprehensive loss; (iv) consolidated statements of equity and consolidated statements of partners capital; (v) consolidated statements of cash flows; (vi) notes to consolidated financial statements; and (vii) financial statement schedule (3).
(1) Schedule and supplemental materials to the exhibits have been omitted but will be provided to the Securities and Exchange Commission upon request.
(2) The Commission file numbers for exhibits is 001-13232 (Aimco) and 0-24497 (the Aimco Operating Partnership), and all such exhibits remain available pursuant to the Records Control Schedule of the Securities and Exchange Commission.
(3) As provided in Rule 406T of Regulation S-T, this information is furnished and not filed for purposes of Sections 11 and 12 of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
* Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement 46 Table of Contents SIGNATURES Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
APARTMENT INVESTMENT AND MANAGEMENT COMPANY By: /s/ TERRY CONSIDINE Terry Considine Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer Date: February21, 2014 AIMCO PROPERTIES, L.P.
By: AIMCO-GP, Inc., its General Partner By: /s/ TERRY CONSIDINE Terry Considine Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer Date: February 21, 2014 47 Table of Contents Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of each registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.
Signature Title Date APARTMENT INVESTMENT AND MANAGEMENT COMPANY AIMCO PROPERTIES, L.P.
By:AIMCO-GP, Inc., its General Partner /s/ TERRY CONSIDINE Chairman of the Board and February21, 2014 Terry Considine Chief Executive Officer (principal executive officer) /s/ ERNEST M. FREEDMAN Executive Vice President and February21, 2014 Ernest M. Freedman Chief Financial Officer (principal financial officer) /s/ PAUL BELDIN Senior Vice President and February21, 2014 Paul Beldin Chief Accounting Officer (principal accounting officer) /s/ JAMES N. BAILEY Director February21, 2014 James N. Bailey /s/ THOMAS L. KELTNER Director February21, 2014 Thomas L. Keltner /s/ J. LANDIS MARTIN Director February21, 2014 J. Landis Martin /s/ ROBERT A. MILLER Director February21, 2014 Robert A. Miller /s/ KATHLEEN M. NELSON Director February21, 2014 Kathleen M. Nelson /s/ MICHAEL A. STEIN Director February21, 2014 Michael A. Stein 48 Table of Contents APARTMENT INVESTMENT AND MANAGEMENT COMPANY AIMCO PROPERTIES, L.P.
INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Page Financial Statements: Apartment Investment and Management Company: Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm F-2 Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2013 and 2012 F-3 Consolidated Statements of Operations for the Years Ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011 F-4 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss) for the Years Ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011 F-5 Consolidated Statements of Equity for the Years Ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011 F-6 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the Years Ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011 F-7 AIMCO Properties, L.P.: Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm F-9 Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2013 and 2012 F-10 Consolidated Statements of Operations for the Years Ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011 F-11 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss) for the Years Ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011 F-12 Consolidated Statements of Partners Capital for the Years Ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011 F-13 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the Years Ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011 F-14 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of Apartment Investment and Management Company and AIMCO Properties, L.P.
F-16 Financial Statement Schedule: Schedule III - Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation F-44 All other schedules are omitted because they are not applicable or the required information is shown in the financial statements or notes thereto.
F-1 Table of Contents REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM The Board of Directors and Stockholders of Apartment Investment and Management Company We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Apartment Investment and Management Company (the Company) as of December31, 2013 and 2012 , and the related consolidated statements of operations, comprehensive income (loss), equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December31, 2013 . Our audits also included the financial statement schedule listed in the accompanying Index to Financial Statements. These financial statements and schedule are the responsibility of the Companys management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements and schedule based on our audits.
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of the Company at December31, 2013 and 2012 , and the consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December31, 2013 , in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Also, in our opinion, the related financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly in all material respects the information set forth therein.
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the Companys internal control over financial reporting as of December31, 2013 , based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (1992 Framework) and our report dated February21, 2014 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.
/s/ ERNST & YOUNG LLP Denver, Colorado February21, 2014 F-2 Table of Contents APARTMENT INVESTMENT AND MANAGEMENT COMPANY CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS As of December31, 2013 and 2012 (In thousands, except share data) 2013 2012 ASSETS Buildings and improvements $ 6,332,723 $ 6,014,062 Land 1,881,358 1,857,956 Total real estate 8,214,081 7,872,018 Less accumulated depreciation (2,822,872 ) (2,637,057 ) Net real estate ($392,245 and $578,421 related to VIEs) 5,391,209 5,234,961 Cash and cash equivalents ($24,094 and $23,599 related to VIEs) 55,751 84,413 Restricted cash ($36,369 and $38,477 related to VIEs) 127,037 145,585 Notes receivable 3,145 102,897 Other assets ($211,287 and $220,910 related to VIEs) 502,271 543,778 Assets held for sale  289,746 Total assets $ 6,079,413 $ 6,401,380 LIABILITIES AND EQUITY Non-recourse property debt ($355,372 and $477,791 related to VIEs) $ 4,337,785 $ 4,413,083 Revolving credit facility borrowings 50,400  Total indebtedness 4,388,185 4,413,083 Accounts payable 43,161 30,747 Accrued liabilities and other ($140,910 and $159,607 related to VIEs) 287,595 313,611 Deferred income 107,775 127,561 Liabilities related to assets held for sale  281,438 Total liabilities 4,826,716 5,166,440 Preferred noncontrolling interests in Aimco Operating Partnership 79,953 80,046 Commitments and contingencies (Note 7)   Equity: Perpetual Preferred Stock (Note 9) 68,114 68,114 Common Stock, $0.01 par value, 505,787,260 shares authorized, 145,917,387 and 145,563,903 shares issued/outstanding at December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively 1,459 1,456 Additional paid-in capital 3,701,339 3,712,684 Accumulated other comprehensive loss (4,602 ) (3,542 ) Distributions in excess of earnings (2,798,853 ) (2,863,287 ) Total Aimco equity 967,457 915,425 Noncontrolling interests in consolidated real estate partnerships 233,008 271,065 Common noncontrolling interests in Aimco Operating Partnership (27,721 ) (31,596 ) Total equity 1,172,744 1,154,894 Total liabilities and equity $ 6,079,413 $ 6,401,380 See notes to consolidated financial statements.
F-3 Table of Contents APARTMENT INVESTMENT AND MANAGEMENT COMPANY CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS For the Years Ended December31, 2013 , 2012 and 2011 (In thousands, except per share data) 2013 2012 2011 REVENUES: Rental and other property revenues $ 939,231 $ 916,742 $ 875,694 Tax credit and asset management revenues 34,822 41,769 38,661 Total revenues 974,053 958,511 914,355 OPERATING EXPENSES: Property operating expenses 375,672 374,347 376,164 Investment management expenses 4,341 12,008 10,459 Depreciation and amortization 291,910 325,173 323,233 Provision for real estate impairment losses  6,235  General and administrative expenses 45,708 49,602 50,906 Other expenses, net 7,403 12,130 18,302 Total operating expenses 725,034 779,495 779,064 Operating income 249,019 179,016 135,291 Interest income 16,059 9,890 9,655 Recovery of losses on notes receivable, net 1,884 3,375 509 Interest expense (237,048 ) (229,373 ) (272,315 ) Equity in income (losses) of unconsolidated real estate partnerships 926 (4,408 ) (17,721 ) Gain on dispositions of unconsolidated real estate and other, net 1,797 21,886 2,403 Income (loss) before income taxes and discontinued operations 32,637 (19,614 ) (142,178 ) Income tax benefit 1,959 858 5,941 Income (loss) from continuing operations 34,596 (18,756 ) (136,237 ) Income from discontinued operations, net 203,229 214,117 78,073 Net income (loss) 237,825 195,361 (58,164 ) Noncontrolling interests: Net (income) loss attributable to noncontrolling interests in consolidated real estate partnerships (12,473 ) (51,218 ) 257 Net income attributable to preferred noncontrolling interests in Aimco Operating Partnership (6,423 ) (6,496 ) (6,683 ) Net (income) loss attributable to common noncontrolling interests in Aimco Operating Partnership (11,639 ) (5,191 ) 7,503 Total noncontrolling interests (30,535 ) (62,905 ) 1,077 Net income (loss) attributable to Aimco 207,290 132,456 (57,087 ) Net income attributable to Aimco preferred stockholders (2,804 ) (49,888 ) (45,852 ) Net income attributable to participating securities (813 ) (422 ) (222 ) Net income (loss) attributable to Aimco common stockholders $ 203,673 $ 82,146 $ (103,161 ) Earnings (loss) attributable to Aimco per common share  basic and diluted: Income (loss) from continuing operations attributable to Aimco common stockholders $ 0.29 $ (0.60 ) $ (1.22 ) Income from discontinued operations attributable to Aimco common stockholders 1.11 1.21 0.36 Net income (loss) attributable to Aimco common stockholders $ 1.40 $ 0.61 $ (0.86 ) Weighted average common shares outstanding  basic 145,291 134,479 119,312 Weighted average common shares outstanding  diluted 145,532 134,479 119,312 See notes to consolidated financial statements.
F-4 Table of Contents APARTMENT INVESTMENT AND MANAGEMENT COMPANY CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS) For the Years Ended December31, 2013 , 2012 and 2011 (In thousands) 2013 2012 2011 Net income (loss) $ 237,825 $ 195,361 $ (58,164 ) Other comprehensive (loss) income: Unrealized gains (losses) on interest rate swaps 1,734 (2,581 ) (5,885 ) Losses on interest rate swaps reclassified into interest expense from accumulated other comprehensive loss 1,678 1,673 1,667 Unrealized (losses) gains on debt securities classified as available-for-sale (4,188 ) 4,341 (1,509 ) Other comprehensive (loss) income (776 ) 3,433 (5,727 ) Comprehensive income (loss) 237,049 198,794 (63,891 ) Comprehensive (income) loss attributable to noncontrolling interests (30,819 ) (63,020 ) 2,020 Comprehensive income (loss) attributable to Aimco $ 206,230 $ 135,774 $ (61,871 ) See notes to consolidated financial statements.
F-5 Table of Contents APARTMENT INVESTMENT AND MANAGEMENT COMPANY CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EQUITY For the Years Ended December31, 2013 , 2012 and 2011 (In thousands) Preferred Stock Common Stock Shares Issued Amount Shares Issued Amount Additional Paid-in Capital Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss Distributions in Excess of Earnings Total Aimco Equity Noncontrolling Interests Total Equity Balances at December 31, 2010 24,900 $ 657,601 117,643 $ 1,176 $ 3,070,296 $ (2,076 ) $ (2,680,955 ) $ 1,046,042 $ 260,730 $ 1,306,772 Issuance of Preferred Stock 869 21,075   (1,085 )   19,990  19,990 Repurchase of Preferred Stock (863 ) (21,562 )   1,292  3,904 (16,366 )  (16,366 ) Issuance of Common Stock   2,914 29 71,913   71,942  71,942 Redemption of Aimco Operating Partnership units         (6,059 ) (6,059 ) Officer and employee stock awards and related amounts, net   317 3 2,094  10 2,107  2,107 Amortization of share-based compensation cost   42 1 5,882   5,883  5,883 Contributions from noncontrolling interests         12,358 12,358 Effect of changes in ownership for consolidated entities and other, net     (52,059 )   (52,059 ) 29,746 (22,313 ) Change in accumulated other comprehensive loss      (4,784 )  (4,784 ) (943 ) (5,727 ) Net loss       (57,087 ) (57,087 ) (7,760 ) (64,847 ) Distributions to noncontrolling interests         (51,727 ) (51,727 ) Common Stock dividends       (57,583 ) (57,583 )  (57,583 ) Preferred Stock dividends       (49,756 ) (49,756 )  (49,756 ) Balances at December 31, 2011 24,906 657,114 120,916 1,209 3,098,333 (6,860 ) (2,841,467 ) 908,329 236,345 1,144,674 Issuance of Preferred Stock 405 10,039   (221 )   9,818  9,818 Redemption of Preferred Stock (24,037 ) (599,039 )   20,727  (22,626 ) (600,938 )  (600,938 ) Issuance of Common Stock   22,144 221 594,158   594,379  594,379 Redemption of Aimco Operating Partnership units         (11,079 ) (11,079 ) Amortization of share-based compensation cost   36  5,223   5,223  5,223 Exercises of stock options   2,254 24 48,883   48,907  48,907 Contributions from noncontrolling interests         2,928 2,928 Effect of changes in ownership for consolidated entities     (54,799 )   (54,799 ) 1,559 (53,240 ) Change in accumulated other comprehensive loss      3,318  3,318 115 3,433 Other, net   214 2 380  (380 ) 2 4,545 4,547 Net income       132,456 132,456 56,409 188,865 Distributions to noncontrolling interests         (51,353 ) (51,353 ) Common Stock dividends       (104,006 ) (104,006 )  (104,006 ) Preferred Stock dividends       (27,264 ) (27,264 )  (27,264 ) Balances at December 31, 2012 1,274 68,114 145,564 1,456 3,712,684 (3,542 ) (2,863,287 ) 915,425 239,469 1,154,894 Redemption of Aimco Operating Partnership units         (3,085 ) (3,085 ) Amortization of share-based compensation cost   33  5,915   5,915  5,915 Exercises of stock options   44  993   993  993 Contributions from noncontrolling interests         1,630 1,630 Effect of changes in ownership for consolidated entities     (19,805 )   (19,805 ) 2,130 (17,675 ) Change in accumulated other comprehensive loss      (1,060 )  (1,060 ) 284 (776 ) Other, net   276 3 1,552   1,555 693 2,248 Net income       207,290 207,290 24,112 231,402 Distributions to noncontrolling interests         (59,946 ) (59,946 ) Common Stock dividends       (140,052 ) (140,052 )  (140,052 ) Preferred Stock dividends       (2,804 ) (2,804 )  (2,804 ) Balances at December 31, 2013 1,274 $ 68,114 145,917 $ 1,459 $ 3,701,339 $ (4,602 ) $ (2,798,853 ) $ 967,457 $ 205,287 $ 1,172,744 See notes to consolidated financial statements.
F-6 Table of Contents APARTMENT INVESTMENT AND MANAGEMENT COMPANY CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS For the Years Ended December31, 2013 , 2012 and 2011 (In thousands) 2013 2012 2011 CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES: Net income (loss) $ 237,825 $ 195,361 $ (58,164 ) Adjustments to reconcile net income (loss) to net cash provided by operating activities: Depreciation and amortization 291,910 325,173 323,233 Provision for real estate impairment losses  6,235  Equity in (income) losses of unconsolidated real estate partnerships (926 ) 4,408 17,721 Gain on dispositions of unconsolidated real estate and other, net (1,797 ) (21,886 ) (2,403 ) Income tax benefit (1,959 ) (858 ) (5,941 ) Share-based compensation expense 5,645 4,871 5,381 Amortization of deferred loan costs and other 4,915 5,044 5,696 Discontinued operations: Depreciation and amortization 16,372 41,577 72,099 Gain on disposition of real estate (212,459 ) (234,530 ) (108,203 ) Other adjustments to income from discontinued operations 10,019 27,854 27,088 Changes in operating assets and operating liabilities: Accounts receivable and other assets 4,592 30,716 8,315 Accounts payable, accrued liabilities and other (28,541 ) (67,138 ) (26,003 ) Total adjustments 87,771 121,466 316,983 Net cash provided by operating activities 325,596 316,827 258,819 CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES: Purchases of real estate and investments in unconsolidated real estate partnerships (51,291 ) (89,716 ) (64,976 ) Capital expenditures (350,338 ) (270,210 ) (200,372 ) Proceeds from dispositions of real estate 357,314 484,904 326,853 Purchases of interests in unconsolidated real estate and corporate assets (10,863 ) (7,818 ) (15,123 ) Purchase of investment in debt securities   (51,534 ) Purchase of West Harlem first mortgage property loans (119,101 )   Proceeds from repayment of West Harlem property loans and option value 215,517   Proceeds from sales of and distributions from unconsolidated real estate partnerships  31,192 17,095 Changes in restricted cash 3,003 (22,886 ) 10,306 Other investing activities 20,951 (13,799 ) 18,245 Net cash provided by investing activities 65,192 111,667 40,494 CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES: Proceeds from non-recourse property debt 232,965 243,253 927,093 Principal repayments on non-recourse property debt (472,276 ) (447,792 ) (1,083,690 ) Net borrowings on revolving credit facility 50,400   Proceeds from issuance of Common Stock  594,379 71,942 Redemptions and repurchases of Preferred Stock  (600,938 ) (36,367 ) Proceeds from Common Stock option exercises 993 48,907 1,806 Payment of dividends to holders of Preferred Stock (2,804 ) (37,019 ) (49,756 ) Payment of dividends to holders of Common Stock (140,052 ) (104,006 ) (57,583 ) Payment of distributions to noncontrolling interests (63,766 ) (57,849 ) (58,413 ) Purchases of noncontrolling interests in consolidated real estate partnerships (16,775 ) (57,008 ) (14,811 ) Other financing activities (8,135 ) (17,074 ) (19,793 ) Net cash used in financing activities (419,450 ) (435,147 ) (319,572 ) NET DECREASE IN CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS (28,662 ) (6,653 ) (20,259 ) CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT BEGINNING OF PERIOD 84,413 91,066 111,325 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT END OF PERIOD $ 55,751 $ 84,413 $ 91,066 See notes to consolidated financial statements.
F-7 Table of Contents APARTMENT INVESTMENT AND MANAGEMENT COMPANY CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS For the Years Ended December31, 2013 , 2012 and 2011 (In thousands) 2013 2012 2011 SUPPLEMENTAL CASH FLOW INFORMATION: Interest Paid $ 273,635 $ 294,423 $ 336,565 Cash paid for income taxes 629 1,056 1,233 Non-cash transactions associated with the acquisition or disposition of real estate: Secured debt assumed in connection with our acquisition of real estate 14,767 38,779  Secured debt assumed by buyer in connection with our disposition of real estate 126,663 208,134 127,494 Secured, subordinate debt of the disposed legacy asset management business forgiven in connection with the disposition of real estate 8,149 15,019  Other non-cash transactions: Issuance of common OP Units for acquisition of noncontrolling interests in consolidated real estate partnerships 416 4,553 168 See notes to consolidated financial statements.
F-8 Table of Contents REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM The Partners of AIMCO Properties, L.P.
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of AIMCO Properties, L.P. (the Partnership) as of December31, 2013 and 2012 , and the related consolidated statements of operations, comprehensive income (loss), partners capital and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December31, 2013 . Our audits also included the financial statement schedule listed in the accompanying Index to Financial Statements. These financial statements and schedule are the responsibility of the Partnerships management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements and schedule based on our audits.
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of the Partnership at December31, 2013 and 2012 , and the consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December31, 2013 , in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Also, in our opinion, the related financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly in all material respects the information set forth therein.
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the Partnerships internal control over financial reporting as of December31, 2013 , based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (1992 Framework) and our report dated February21, 2014 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.
/s/ ERNST & YOUNG LLP Denver, Colorado February21, 2014 F-9 Table of Contents AIMCO PROPERTIES, L.P.
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS As of December31, 2013 and 2012 (In thousands) 2013 2012 ASSETS Buildings and improvements $ 6,332,723 $ 6,014,062 Land 1,881,358 1,857,956 Total real estate 8,214,081 7,872,018 Less accumulated depreciation (2,822,872 ) (2,637,057 ) Net real estate ($392,245 and $578,421 related to VIEs) 5,391,209 5,234,961 Cash and cash equivalents ($24,094 and $23,599 related to VIEs) 55,751 84,413 Restricted cash ($36,369 and $38,477 related to VIEs) 127,037 145,585 Notes receivable 3,145 102,897 Other assets ($211,287 and $220,910 related to VIEs) 502,271 543,778 Assets held for sale  289,746 Total assets $ 6,079,413 $ 6,401,380 LIABILITIES AND PARTNERS CAPITAL Non-recourse property debt ($355,372 and $477,791 related to VIEs) $ 4,337,785 $ 4,413,083 Revolving credit facility borrowings 50,400  Total indebtedness 4,388,185 4,413,083 Accounts payable 43,161 30,747 Accrued liabilities and other ($140,910 and $159,607 related to VIEs) 287,595 313,611 Deferred income 107,775 127,561 Liabilities related to assets held for sale  281,438 Total liabilities 4,826,716 5,166,440 Redeemable preferred units 79,953 80,046 Commitments and contingencies (Note 7)   Partners Capital: Preferred units (Note 11) 68,114 68,114 General Partner and Special Limited Partner 899,343 847,311 Limited Partners (27,721 ) (31,596 ) Partners capital attributable to the Aimco Operating Partnership 939,736 883,829 Noncontrolling interests in consolidated real estate partnerships 233,008 271,065 Total partners capital 1,172,744 1,154,894 Total liabilities and partners capital $ 6,079,413 $ 6,401,380 See notes to consolidated financial statements.
F-10 Table of Contents AIMCO PROPERTIES, L.P.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS As of December31, 2013 , 2012 and 2011 (In thousands, except per unit data) 2013 2012 2011 REVENUES: Rental and other property revenues $ 939,231 $ 916,742 $ 875,694 Tax credit and asset management revenues 34,822 41,769 38,661 Total revenues 974,053 958,511 914,355 OPERATING EXPENSES: Property operating expenses 375,672 374,347 376,164 Investment management expenses 4,341 12,008 10,459 Depreciation and amortization 291,910 325,173 323,233 Provision for real estate impairment losses  6,235  General and administrative expenses 45,708 49,602 50,906 Other expenses, net 7,403 12,130 18,302 Total operating expenses 725,034 779,495 779,064 Operating income 249,019 179,016 135,291 Interest income 16,059 9,890 10,954 Recovery of losses on notes receivable, net 1,884 3,375 509 Interest expense (237,048 ) (229,373 ) (272,315 ) Equity in income (losses) of unconsolidated real estate partnerships 926 (4,408 ) (17,721 ) Gain on dispositions of unconsolidated real estate and other, net 1,797 21,886 2,403 Income (loss) before income taxes and discontinued operations 32,637 (19,614 ) (140,879 ) Income tax benefit 1,959 858 5,941 Income (loss) from continuing operations 34,596 (18,756 ) (134,938 ) Income from discontinued operations, net 203,229 214,117 78,073 Net income (loss) 237,825 195,361 (56,865 ) Net (income) loss attributable to noncontrolling interests in consolidated real estate partnerships (12,473 ) (51,218 ) 257 Net income (loss) attributable to the Aimco Operating Partnership 225,352 144,143 (56,608 ) Net income attributable to the Aimco Operating Partnerships preferred unitholders (9,227 ) (56,384 ) (52,535 ) Net income attributable to participating securities (813 ) (422 ) (222 ) Net income (loss) attributable to the Aimco Operating Partnerships common unitholders $ 215,312 $ 87,337 $ (109,365 ) Earnings (loss) attributable to the Aimco Operating Partnership per common unit  basic and diluted: Income (loss) from continuing operations attributable to the Aimco Operating Partnerships common unitholders $ 0.29 $ (0.60 ) $ (1.22 ) Income from discontinued operations attributable to the Aimco Operating Partnerships common unitholders 1.11 1.21 0.36 Net income (loss) attributable to the Aimco Operating Partnerships common unitholders $ 1.40 $ 0.61 $ (0.86 ) Weighted average common units outstanding  basic 153,256 142,614 127,681 Weighted average common units outstanding  diluted 153,497 142,614 127,681 See notes to consolidated financial statements.
F-11 Table of Contents AIMCO PROPERTIES, L.P.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS) For the Years Ended December31, 2013 , 2012 and 2011 (In thousands) 2013 2012 2011 Net income (loss) $ 237,825 $ 195,361 $ (56,865 ) Other comprehensive (loss) income: Unrealized gains (losses) on interest rate swaps 1,734 (2,581 ) (5,885 ) Losses on interest rate swaps reclassified into interest expense from accumulated other comprehensive loss 1,678 1,673 1,667 Unrealized (losses) gains on debt securities classified as available-for-sale (4,188 ) 4,341 (1,509 ) Other comprehensive (loss) income (776 ) 3,433 (5,727 ) Comprehensive income (loss) 237,049 198,794 (62,592 ) Comprehensive (income) loss attributable to noncontrolling interests (12,815 ) (51,134 ) 697 Comprehensive income (loss) attributable to the Aimco Operating Partnership $ 224,234 $ 147,660 $ (61,895 ) See notes to consolidated financial statements.
F-12 Table of Contents AIMCO PROPERTIES, L.P.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF PARTNERS CAPITAL For the Years Ended December31, 2013 , 2012 and 2011 (In thousands) Preferred Units General Partner and Special Limited Partner Limited Partners Partners Capital Attributable to the Partnership Non - controlling Interests Total Partners Capital Balances at December 31, 2010 $ 657,601 $ 406,020 $ (31,077 ) $ 1,032,544 $ 291,458 $ 1,324,002 Issuance of preferred units to Aimco 21,075 (1,085 )  19,990  19,990 Redemption of preferred units held by Aimco (21,562 ) 5,196  (16,366 )  (16,366 ) Issuance of common partnership units to Aimco  71,942  71,942  71,942 Redemption of partnership units held by non-Aimco partners   (6,059 ) (6,059 )  (6,059 ) Contribution from Aimco related to employee stock purchases, net  2,107  2,107  2,107 Amortization of Aimco share-based compensation  5,883  5,883  5,883 Contributions from noncontrolling interests     12,358 12,358 Effect of changes in ownership for consolidated entities and other, net  (52,059 ) 15,736 (36,323 ) 14,010 (22,313 ) Change in accumulated other comprehensive loss  (4,784 ) (503 ) (5,287 ) (440 ) (5,727 ) Net loss  (56,137 ) (7,154 ) (63,291 ) (257 ) (63,548 ) Distributions to noncontrolling interests     (46,463 ) (46,463 ) Distributions to common unitholders  (76,112 ) (5,264 ) (81,376 )  (81,376 ) Distributions to preferred unitholders  (49,756 )  (49,756 )  (49,756 ) Balances at December 31, 2011 657,114 251,215 (34,321 ) 874,008 270,666 1,144,674 Issuance of preferred units to Aimco 10,039 (221 )  9,818  9,818 Redemption of preferred units held by Aimco (599,039 ) (1,899 )  (600,938 )  (600,938 ) Issuance of common partnership units to Aimco  594,379  594,379  594,379 Redemption of partnership units held by non-Aimco partners   (11,079 ) (11,079 )  (11,079 ) Amortization of Aimco share-based compensation  5,223  5,223  5,223 Issuance of common partnership units to Aimco in connection with exercise of Aimco stock options  48,907  48,907  48,907 Contributions from noncontrolling interests     2,928 2,928 Effect of changes in ownership for consolidated entities  (54,799 ) 10,022 (44,777 ) (8,463 ) (53,240 ) Change in accumulated other comprehensive loss  3,318 199 3,517 (84 ) 3,433 Other, net  2 4,545 4,547  4,547 Net income  132,456 5,191 137,647 51,218 188,865 Distributions to noncontrolling interests     (45,200 ) (45,200 ) Distributions to common unitholders  (104,006 ) (6,153 ) (110,159 )  (110,159 ) Distributions to preferred unitholders  (27,264 )  (27,264 )  (27,264 ) Balances at December 31, 2012 68,114 847,311 (31,596 ) 883,829 271,065 1,154,894 Redemption of partnership units held by non-Aimco partners   (3,085 ) (3,085 )  (3,085 ) Amortization of Aimco share-based compensation  5,915  5,915  5,915 Issuance of common partnership units to Aimco in connection with exercise of Aimco stock options  993  993  993 Contributions from noncontrolling interests     1,630 1,630 Effect of changes in ownership for consolidated entities  (19,805 ) 2,635 (17,170 ) (505 ) (17,675 ) Change in accumulated other comprehensive loss  (1,060 ) (58 ) (1,118 ) 342 (776 ) Other, net  1,555 386 1,941 307 2,248 Net income  207,290 11,639 218,929 12,473 231,402 Distributions to noncontrolling interests     (52,304 ) (52,304 ) Distributions to common unitholders  (140,052 ) (7,642 ) (147,694 )  (147,694 ) Distributions to preferred unitholders  (2,804 )  (2,804 )  (2,804 ) Balances at December 31, 2013 $ 68,114 $ 899,343 $ (27,721 ) $ 939,736 $ 233,008 $ 1,172,744 See notes to consolidated financial statements.
F-13 Table of Contents AIMCO PROPERTIES, L.P.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS For the Years Ended December31, 2013 , 2012 and 2011 (In thousands) 2013 2012 2011 CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES: Net income (loss) $ 237,825 $ 195,361 $ (56,865 ) Adjustments to reconcile net income (loss) to net cash provided by operating activities: Depreciation and amortization 291,910 325,173 323,233 Provision for real estate impairment losses  6,235  Equity in (income) losses of unconsolidated real estate partnerships (926 ) 4,408 17,721 Gain on dispositions of unconsolidated real estate and other, net (1,797 ) (21,886 ) (2,403 ) Income tax benefit (1,959 ) (858 ) (5,941 ) Share-based compensation expense 5,645 4,871 5,381 Amortization of deferred loan costs and other 4,915 5,044 5,696 Discontinued operations: Depreciation and amortization 16,372 41,577 72,099 Gain on disposition of real estate (212,459 ) (234,530 ) (108,203 ) Other adjustments to income from discontinued operations 10,019 27,854 27,088 Changes in operating assets and operating liabilities: Accounts receivable and other assets 4,592 30,716 7,016 Accounts payable, accrued liabilities and other (28,541 ) (67,138 ) (26,003 ) Total adjustments 87,771 121,466 315,684 Net cash provided by operating activities 325,596 316,827 258,819 CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES: Purchases of real estate and investments in unconsolidated real estate partnerships (51,291 ) (89,716 ) (64,976 ) Capital expenditures (350,338 ) (270,210 ) (200,372 ) Proceeds from dispositions of real estate 357,314 484,904 326,853 Purchases of interests in unconsolidated real estate and corporate assets (10,863 ) (7,818 ) (15,123 ) Purchase of investment in debt securities   (51,534 ) Purchase of West Harlem first mortgage property loans (119,101 )   Proceeds from repayment of West Harlem property loans and option value 215,517   Proceeds from sale of and distributions from real estate partnerships  31,192 17,095 Changes in restricted cash 3,003 (22,886 ) 10,306 Repayment of notes receivable and distributions received from Aimco   18,798 Other investing activities 20,951 (13,799 ) 18,245 Net cash provided by investing activities 65,192 111,667 59,292 CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES: Proceeds from non-recourse property debt 232,965 243,253 927,093 Principal repayments on non-recourse property debt (472,276 ) (447,792 ) (1,083,690 ) Net borrowings on revolving credit facility 50,400   Proceeds from issuance of common partnership units to Aimco  594,379 71,942 Redemption and repurchase of preferred units from Aimco  (600,938 ) (36,367 ) Proceeds from Aimco Common Stock option exercises 993 48,907 1,806 Payment of distributions to preferred units (9,227 ) (43,515 ) (56,439 ) Payment of distributions to General Partner and Special Limited Partner (140,052 ) (104,006 ) (76,381 ) Payment of distributions to Limited Partners (7,642 ) (6,153 ) (5,264 ) Payment of distributions to noncontrolling interests (49,701 ) (45,200 ) (46,466 ) Purchases of noncontrolling interests in consolidated real estate partnerships (16,775 ) (57,008 ) (14,811 ) Other financing activities (8,135 ) (17,074 ) (19,793 ) Net cash used in financing activities (419,450 ) (435,147 ) (338,370 ) NET DECREASE IN CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS (28,662 ) (6,653 ) (20,259 ) CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT BEGINNING OF PERIOD 84,413 91,066 111,325 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT END OF PERIOD $ 55,751 $ 84,413 $ 91,066 See notes to consolidated financial statements.
F-14 Table of Contents AIMCO PROPERTIES, L.P.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS For the Years Ended December31, 2013 , 2012 and 2011 (In thousands) 2013 2012 2011 SUPPLEMENTAL CASH FLOW INFORMATION: Interest Paid $ 273,635 $ 294,423 $ 336,565 Cash paid for income taxes 629 1,056 1,233 Non-cash transactions associated with the acquisition or disposition of real estate: Secured debt assumed in connection with our acquisition of real estate 14,767 38,779  Secured debt assumed by buyer in connection with our disposition of real estate 126,663 208,134 127,494 Secured, subordinate debt of the disposed legacy asset management business forgiven in connection with the disposition of real estate 8,149 15,019  Other non-cash transactions: Issuance of common OP Units for acquisition of noncontrolling interests in consolidated real estate partnerships 416 4,553 168 See notes to consolidated financial statements.
F-15 Table of Contents APARTMENT INVESTMENT AND MANAGEMENT COMPANY AIMCO PROPERTIES, L.P.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS December 31, 2013 Note 1  Organization Apartment Investment and Management Company, or Aimco, is a Maryland corporation incorporated on January 10, 1994.  Aimco is a self-administered and self-managed real estate investment trust, or REIT.  AIMCO Properties, L.P., or the Aimco Operating Partnership, is a Delaware limited partnership formed on May 16, 1994, to conduct our business, which is focused on the ownership, management and redevelopment of quality apartment communities located in the largest coastal and job growth markets of the United States.
Aimco, through its wholly-owned subsidiaries, AIMCO-GP, Inc. and AIMCO-LP Trust, owns a majority of the ownership interests in the Aimco Operating Partnership.  Aimco conducts all of its business and owns all of its assets through the Aimco Operating Partnership.  Interests in the Aimco Operating Partnership that are held by limited partners other than Aimco are referred to as OP Units.  OP Units include common partnership units, high performance partnership units and partnership preferred units, which we refer to as common OP Units, HPUs and preferred OP Units, respectively.  We also refer to HPUs as common partnership unit equivalents.  At December31, 2013 , after eliminations for units held by consolidated subsidiaries, the Aimco Operating Partnership had 153,837,804 common partnership units and equivalents outstanding.  At December31, 2013 , Aimco owned 145,917,387 of the common partnership units ( 94.9% of the common partnership units and equivalents of the Aimco Operating Partnership) and Aimco had outstanding an equal number of shares of its Class A Common Stock, which we refer to as Common Stock.
Except as the context otherwise requires, we, our and us refer to Aimco, the Aimco Operating Partnership and their consolidated subsidiaries, collectively.
As of December31, 2013 , we owned an equity interest in 162 conventional apartment communities with 50,486 apartment homes and 74 affordable apartment communities with 10,067 apartment homes.  Of these properties, we consolidated 158 conventional apartment communities with 50,344 apartment homes and 58 affordable apartment communities with 8,953 apartment homes.  These conventional and affordable apartment communities generated 90% and 10% , respectively, of our proportionate property net operating income (as defined in Note 15 ) during the year ended December31, 2013 .
Note 2 Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Principles of Consolidation Aimcos accompanying consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Aimco, the Aimco Operating Partnership, and their consolidated subsidiaries.  The Aimco Operating Partnerships consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Aimco Operating Partnership and its consolidated entities.
We consolidate all variable interest entities for which we are the primary beneficiary.  Generally, a variable interest entity, or VIE, is a legal entity in which the equity investors do not have the characteristics of a controlling financial interest or the equity investors lack sufficient equity at risk for the entity to finance its activities without additional subordinated financial support.  In determining whether we are the primary beneficiary of a VIE, we consider qualitative and quantitative factors, including, but not limited to:  which activities most significantly impact the VIEs economic performance and which party controls such activities; the amount and characteristics of our investment; the obligation or likelihood for us or other investors to provide financial support; and the similarity with and significance to our business activities and the business activities of the other investors.  Significant judgments related to these determinations include estimates about the current and future fair values and performance of real estate held by these VIEs and general market conditions.
As of December31, 2013 , we were the primary beneficiary of, and therefore consolidated, 63 VIEs, which owned 49 apartment communities with 7,656 apartment homes.  Substantially all of these VIEs are partnerships that operate qualifying affordable housing apartment communities and which are structured to provide for the pass-through of low-income housing tax credits and deductions to their partners.  Real estate with a net book value of $392.2 million collateralized $355.4 million of debt of those VIEs.  Any significant amounts of assets and liabilities related to our consolidated VIEs are identified parenthetically on our accompanying consolidated balance sheets. The creditors of the consolidated VIEs do not have recourse to our general credit.
In addition to the VIEs discussed above, at December31, 2013 , our consolidated financial statements included certain consolidated and unconsolidated VIEs that are part of the legacy asset management business we sold during 2012, which is discussed in Note 3 .  The assets and liabilities related to these consolidated and unconsolidated VIEs are each condensed into single line items within other assets and accrued liabilities and other, respectively, in our consolidated balance sheets.
F-16 Table of Contents Generally, we consolidate real estate partnerships and other entities that are not variable interest entities when we own, directly or indirectly, a majority voting interest in the entity or are otherwise able to control the entity.  All significant intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
Interests in the Aimco Operating Partnership that are held by limited partners other than Aimco are reflected in Aimcos accompanying balance sheets as noncontrolling interests in Aimco Operating Partnership.  Interests in partnerships consolidated into the Aimco Operating Partnership that are held by third parties are reflected in our accompanying balance sheets as noncontrolling interests in consolidated real estate partnerships. The assets of consolidated real estate partnerships owned or controlled by the Aimco Operating Partnership generally are not available to pay creditors of Aimco or the Aimco Operating Partnership.
As used herein, and except where the context otherwise requires, partnership refers to a limited partnership or a limited liability company and partner refers to a partner in a limited partnership or a member of a limited liability company.
Acquisition of Real Estate Assets and Related Depreciation and Amortization We recognize at fair value the acquisition of apartment communities or interests in partnerships that own apartment communities if the transaction results in consolidation and we expense as incurred most related transaction costs.  We allocate the cost of acquired apartment communities to tangible assets and identified intangible assets based on their fair values.  We determine the fair value of tangible assets, such as land, building, furniture, fixtures and equipment, generally using internal valuation techniques that consider comparable market transactions, discounted cash flow techniques, replacement costs and other available information.  We determine the fair value of identified intangible assets (or liabilities), which typically relate to in-place leases, using internal valuation techniques that consider the terms of the in-place leases, current market data for comparable leases, and our experience in leasing similar communities.  The intangible assets or liabilities related to in-place leases are comprised of: 1.
The value of the above- and below-market leases in-place.  An asset or liability is recognized based on the difference between (a) the contractual amounts to be paid pursuant to the in-place leases and (b) our estimate of fair market lease rates for the corresponding in-place leases, measured over the period, including estimated lease renewals for below-market leases, that the leases are expected to remain in effect.
2.
The estimated unamortized portion of avoided leasing commissions and other costs that ordinarily would be incurred to originate the in-place leases.
3.
The value associated with vacant apartment homes during the absorption period (estimates of lost rental revenue during the expected lease-up periods based on current market demand and stabilized occupancy levels).
The values of the above- and below-market leases are amortized to rental revenue over the expected remaining terms of the associated leases, which include reasonably assured renewal periods.  Other intangible assets related to in-place leases are amortized to depreciation and amortization over the expected remaining terms of the associated leases.  We prospectively adjust the amortization period to reflect significant variances between actual lease termination activity as compared to those used to determine the historical amortization periods.
Depreciation for all tangible real estate assets is calculated using the straight-line method over their estimated useful lives.  Acquired buildings and improvements are depreciated over a useful life based on the age, condition and other physical characteristics of the apartment community.  At December31, 2013 , the weighted average depreciable life of our acquired buildings and improvements was approximately 30 years.  As discussed below under the Impairment of Long Lived Assets heading, we may adjust depreciation of apartment communities that are expected to be disposed of or demolished prior to the end of their useful lives.  Furniture, fixtures and equipment associated with acquired apartment communities are depreciated over five years.
At December31, 2013 and 2012 , deferred income in our consolidated balance sheets includes below-market lease amounts totaling $16.9 million and $19.8 million , respectively, which are net of accumulated amortization of $35.9 million and $33.0 million , respectively.  During the years ended December31, 2013 , 2012 and 2011 , we included amortization of below-market leases of $2.9 million , $3.8 million and $4.3 million , respectively, in rental and other property revenues in our consolidated statements of operations.  At December31, 2013 , our below-market leases had a weighted average amortization period of 6.5 years and estimated aggregate amortization for each of the five succeeding years as follows (in thousands): 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Estimated amortization $ 2,270 $ 2,016 $ 1,757 $ 1,550 $ 1,331 F-17 Table of Contents Capital Additions and Related Depreciation We capitalize costs, including certain indirect costs, incurred in connection with our capital additions activities, including redevelopment, development and construction projects, other tangible apartment community improvements, and replacements of existing apartment community components.  Included in these capitalized costs are payroll costs associated with time spent by site employees in connection with capital additions activities at the apartment community level.  We characterize as indirect costs an allocation of certain department costs, including payroll, at the area operations and corporate levels that clearly relate to capital additions activities.  We also capitalize interest, property taxes and insurance during periods in which redevelopment, development and construction projects are in progress.  We commence capitalization of costs, including certain indirect costs, incurred in connection with our capital addition activities, at the point in time when activities necessary to get apartment communities ready for their intended use are in progress.  This includes when apartment communities or apartment homes are undergoing physical construction, as well as when apartment homes are held vacant in advance of planned construction, provided that other activities such as permitting, planning and design are in progress.  We cease the capitalization of costs when the assets are substantially complete and ready for their intended use, which is typically when construction has been completed and apartment homes are available for occupancy.  We charge to property operating expense, as incurred, costs including ordinary repairs, maintenance and resident turnover costs.
We depreciate capitalized costs using the straight-line method over the estimated useful life of the related component or improvement, which is generally 5 , 15 or 30 years.  All capitalized site payroll and indirect costs are allocated proportionately, based on direct costs, among capital projects and depreciated over the estimated useful lives of such projects.
Certain homogeneous items that are purchased in bulk on a recurring basis, such as carpeting and appliances, are depreciated using group methods that reflect the average estimated useful life of the items in each group.  Except in the case of apartment community casualties, where the net book value of the lost asset is written off in the determination of casualty gains or losses, we generally do not recognize any loss in connection with the replacement of an existing apartment community component because normal replacements are considered in determining the estimated useful lives used in connection with our composite and group depreciation methods.
For the years ended December31, 2013 , 2012 and 2011 , for continuing and discontinued operations, we capitalized to buildings and improvements $17.6 million , $16.6 million and $14.0 million of interest costs, respectively, and $33.2 million , $33.7 million and $29.0 million of other direct and indirect costs, respectively.
Impairment of Long-Lived Assets Real estate and other long-lived assets to be held and used are stated at cost, less accumulated depreciation and amortization, unless the carrying amount of the asset is not recoverable.  If events or circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an apartment community may not be recoverable, we make an assessment of its recoverability by comparing the carrying amount to our estimate of the undiscounted future cash flows, excluding interest charges, of the apartment community.  If the carrying amount exceeds the aggregate undiscounted future cash flows, we recognize an impairment loss to the extent the carrying amount exceeds the estimated fair value of the apartment property.
Based on periodic tests of recoverability of long-lived assets, for the year ended December31, 2012 , we recorded a provision for real estate impairment losses of $6.2 million related to apartment communities classified as held for use, and we recorded no such provisions during the years ended December31, 2013 or 2011 .
Discontinued Operations We classify certain apartment communities and related assets and liabilities as held for sale when they meet certain criteria, as defined in GAAP.  The operating results of such apartment communities as well as those communities sold during the periods presented are included in discontinued operations in both current periods and all comparable periods presented.  Depreciation is not recorded on apartment communities once they have been classified as held for sale; however, depreciation expense recorded prior to classification as held for sale is included in discontinued operations.  The net gain on sale and any impairment losses are presented in discontinued operations when recognized.  See Note 12 for additional information regarding discontinued operations.
Cash Equivalents We classify highly liquid investments with an original maturity of three months or less as cash equivalents.
Restricted Cash Restricted cash includes capital replacement reserves, completion repair reserves, bond sinking fund amounts, tax and insurance escrow accounts held by lenders and resident security deposits.
F-18 Table of Contents Notes Receivable At December 31, 2012, our notes receivable were primarily comprised of second mortgages collateralized by apartment communities in New York City, which, as further described in Note 3 , were repaid during 2013.
Other Assets At December31, 2013 and 2012 , other assets was comprised of the following amounts (dollars in thousands): 2013 2012 Deferred financing costs, net $ 36,641 $ 37,312 Investments in unconsolidated real estate partnerships 16,930 18,753 Investments in securitization trust that holds Aimco property debt 58,408 59,145 Intangible assets, net 50,025 50,322 Deferred tax asset, net (Note 8) 30,353 44,828 Assets related to the legacy asset management business (Note 3) 163,849 176,756 Prepaid expenses, accounts receivable, deposits and other 146,065 156,662 Other assets per consolidated balance sheets $ 502,271 $ 543,778 Deferred Costs We defer lender fees and other direct costs incurred in obtaining new financing and amortize the amounts over the terms of the related loan agreements.  Amortization of these costs is included in interest expense.
We defer leasing commissions and other direct costs incurred in connection with successful leasing efforts and amortize the costs over the terms of the related leases.  Amortization of these costs is included in depreciation and amortization.
Investments in Unconsolidated Real Estate Partnerships We own general and limited partner interests in partnerships that either directly, or through interests in other real estate partnerships, own apartment communities.  We generally account for investments in real estate partnerships that we do not consolidate under the equity method.  Under the equity method, our share of the earnings or losses of the entity for the periods being presented is included in equity in earnings or losses from unconsolidated real estate partnerships, inclusive of our share of any impairments and disposition gains recognized by and related to such entities.
The excess of the cost of the acquired partnership interests over the historical carrying amount of partners equity or deficit is ascribed generally to the fair values of land and buildings owned by the partnerships.  We amortize the excess cost related to the buildings over the estimated useful lives of the buildings.  Such amortization is recorded as a component of equity in earnings (losses) of unconsolidated real estate partnerships.
Investments in Securitization Trust that Holds Aimco Property Debt We hold an investment in the first loss and mezzanine positions in a securitization trust which primarily holds certain of our property debt.  These investments were initially recognized at their purchase price and the discount to the face value is being accreted into interest income over the expected term of the securities. We have designated these investments as available for sale securities and we measure these investments at fair value with changes in their fair value, other than the changes attributed to the accretion described above, recognized as an adjustment of accumulated other comprehensive income or loss within equity and partners capital.  Refer to Note 6 for further information regarding these securities.
Intangible Assets At December31, 2013 and 2012 , other assets included goodwill associated with our reportable segments of $49.0 million , and at December31, 2012 assets held for sale included $5.5 million of goodwill allocated to apartment communities sold during 2013 .  We perform an annual impairment test of goodwill that compares the fair value of reporting units with their carrying amounts, including goodwill.  We determined that our goodwill was not impaired in 2013 , 2012 or 2011 .
During the years ended December31, 2013 , 2012 and 2011 , we allocated $5.5 million , $7.5 million and $5.1 million , respectively, of goodwill related to our reportable segments (conventional and affordable real estate operations) to the carrying amounts of the apartment communities sold or classified as held for sale.  The amounts of goodwill allocated to these apartment F-19 Table of Contents communities were based on the relative fair values of the apartment communities sold or classified as held for sale and the retained portions of the reporting units to which the goodwill as allocated.
Intangible assets also includes amounts related to in-place leases as discussed under the Acquisition of Real Estate Assets and Related Depreciation and Amortization heading.
Capitalized Software Costs Purchased software and other costs related to software developed for internal use are capitalized during the application development stage and are amortized using the straight-line method over the estimated useful life of the software, generally five years.  For the years ended December31, 2013 , 2012 and 2011 , we capitalized software purchase and development costs totaling $3.3 million , $5.8 million and $12.6 million , respectively.  At December31, 2013 and 2012 , other assets included $22.0 million and $27.5 million of net capitalized software, respectively. During the years ended December31, 2013 , 2012 and 2011 , we recognized amortization of capitalized software of $8.9 million , $10.0 million and $8.7 million , respectively, which is included in depreciation and amortization in our consolidated statements of operations.
Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Real Estate Partnerships We report the unaffiliated partners interests in the net assets of our consolidated real estate partnerships as noncontrolling interests in consolidated real estate partnerships within consolidated equity and partners capital.  Noncontrolling interests in consolidated real estate partnerships consist primarily of equity interests held by limited partners in consolidated real estate partnerships that have finite lives.  We generally attribute to noncontrolling interests their share of income or loss of consolidated partnerships based on their proportionate interest in the results of operations of the partnerships, including their share of losses even if such attribution results in a deficit noncontrolling interest balance within our equity and partners capital accounts.
The terms of the related partnership agreements generally require the partnerships to be liquidated following the sale of the underlying real estate.  As the general partner in these partnerships, we ordinarily control the execution of real estate sales and other events that could lead to the liquidation, redemption or other settlement of noncontrolling interests.  However, as discussed in Note 3 , we continue to consolidate certain partnerships and apartment communities associated with the legacy asset management business for which the derecognition criteria associated with our sale of the portfolio have not been met.  We do not control the execution of sales and other events related to the assets that will lead to the to the liquidation of these partnerships and derecognition of the associated noncontrolling interests. The aggregate carrying amount of noncontrolling interests in consolidated real estate partnerships totaled $233.0 million and $271.1 million at December31, 2013 and 2012 , respectively, of which $35.8 million and $57.2 million , respectively, was associated with noncontrolling interests in the legacy asset management business.
Changes in our ownership interest in consolidated real estate partnerships generally consist of our purchase of an additional interest in or the sale of our entire interest in a consolidated real estate partnership.  The effect on our equity and partners capital of our purchase of additional interests in consolidated real estate partnerships during the years ended December31, 2013 , 2012 and 2011 is shown in our consolidated statements of equity and partners capital and further discussed in Note 3 .  The effect on our equity and partners' capital of sales of consolidated real estate or sales of our entire interest in consolidated real estate partnerships is reflected in our consolidated financial statements as sales of real estate and accordingly the effect on our equity and partners capital is reflected within the the amount of net income attributable to us and to noncontrolling interests.  In accordance with FASB Accounting Standards Codification, or ASC, Topic 810, upon our deconsolidation of a real estate partnership following the sale of our partnership interests or liquidation of the partnership following sale of the related apartment community, we derecognize any remaining noncontrolling interest of the associated partnership previously recorded in our consolidated balance sheet.
Noncontrolling Interests in Aimco Operating Partnership Noncontrolling interests in Aimco Operating Partnership consist of common OP Units, HPUs and preferred OP Units.  Within Aimcos consolidated financial statements, the Aimco Operating Partnerships income or loss is allocated to the holders of common partnership units and equivalents based on the weighted average number of common partnership units (including those held by Aimco) and equivalents outstanding during the period. During the years ended December31, 2013 , 2012 and 2011 , the holders of common OP Units and equivalents had a weighted average ownership interest in the Aimco Operating Partnership of 5.2% , 5.7% and 6.6% , respectively.  Holders of the preferred OP Units participate in the Aimco Operating Partnerships income or loss only to the extent of their preferred distributions.  See Note 10 for further information regarding the items comprising noncontrolling interests in the Aimco Operating Partnership.
Revenue Recognition Our apartment communities have operating leases with apartment residents with terms averaging 12 months .  We recognize rental revenue related to these leases, net of any concessions, on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.  We recognize F-20 Table of Contents revenues from property management, asset management, syndication and other services when the related fees are earned and are realized or realizable.
Insurance We believe that our insurance coverages insure our apartment communities adequately against the risk of loss attributable to fire, earthquake, hurricane, tornado, flood, and other perils. In addition, we have insurance coverage for substantial portions of our property, workers compensation, health, and general liability exposures.  Losses are accrued based upon our estimates of the aggregate liability for uninsured losses incurred using certain actuarial assumptions followed in the insurance industry and based on our experience.
Share-Based Compensation We recognize all share-based employee compensation, including grants of employee stock options, in the consolidated financial statements based on the grant date fair value and recognize compensation cost, net of forfeitures, ratably over the awards requisite service period.  See Note 11 for further discussion of our share-based compensation.
Tax Credit Arrangements We sponsor certain partnerships that acquire, develop and operate qualifying affordable housing apartment communities and are structured to provide for the pass-through of tax credits and deductions to their partners.  The tax credits are generally realized ratably over the first ten years of the tax credit arrangement and are subject to the partnerships compliance with applicable laws and regulations for a period of 15 years .  Typically, we are the general partner with a legal ownership interest of one percent or less and unaffiliated institutional investors (which we refer to as tax credit investors or investors) acquire the limited partnership interests ( at least 99% ).  At inception, each investor agrees to fund capital contributions to the partnerships and we receive a syndication fee from the partnerships upon the investors admission to the partnership.
We have determined that the partnerships in these arrangements are VIEs and, where we are general partner, we are generally the primary beneficiary that is required to consolidate the partnerships.  When the contractual arrangements obligate us to deliver tax benefits to the investors, and entitle us through fee arrangements to receive substantially all available cash flow from the partnerships, we account for these partnerships as wholly-owned subsidiaries, recognizing the income or loss generated by the underlying real estate based on our economic interest in the partnerships.  Capital contributions received by the partnerships from tax credit investors represent, in substance, consideration that we receive in exchange for our obligation to deliver tax credits and other tax benefits to the investors.  We record these contributions as deferred income in our consolidated balance sheet upon receipt, and we recognize the receipts as revenue in our consolidated statements of operations when our obligation to the investors is relieved upon delivery of the tax benefits.
Income Taxes We have elected to be taxed as a REIT under the Code commencing with our taxable year ended December 31, 1994, and intend to continue to operate in such a manner.  Our current and continuing qualification as a REIT depends on our ability to meet the various requirements imposed by the Code, which are related to organizational structure, distribution levels, diversity of stock ownership and certain restrictions with regard to owned assets and categories of income.  If we qualify for taxation as a REIT, we will generally not be subject to United States Federal corporate income tax on our taxable income that is currently distributed to stockholders.  This treatment substantially eliminates the double taxation (at the corporate and stockholder levels) that generally results from an investment in a corporation.
Even if we qualify as a REIT, we may be subject to United States Federal income and excise taxes in various situations, such as on our undistributed income. We also will be required to pay a 100% tax on any net income on non-arms length transactions between us and a TRS (described below) and on any net income from sales of apartment communities that were held for sale to customers in the ordinary course.   In addition, we could also be subject to the alternative minimum tax, or AMT, on our items of tax preference.  The state and local tax laws may not conform to the United States Federal income tax treatment, and we and our stockholders may be subject to state or local taxation in various state or local jurisdictions, including those in which we transact business or our stockholders reside.  Any taxes imposed on us reduce our operating cash flow and net income.
Certain of our operations or a portion thereof, including property management, asset management and risk management, are conducted through taxable REIT subsidiaries, which are subsidiaries of the Aimco Operating Partnership, and each of which we refer to as a TRS.  A TRS is a subsidiary C-corporation that has not elected REIT status and as such is subject to United States Federal corporate income tax.  We use TRS entities to facilitate our ability to offer certain services and activities to our residents and investment partners that cannot be offered directly by a REIT.  We also use TRS entities to hold investments in certain apartment communities.
F-21 Table of Contents For our TRS entities, deferred income taxes result from temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for Federal income tax purposes, and are measured using the enacted tax rates and laws that are expected to be in effect when the differences reverse.  We reduce deferred tax assets by recording a valuation allowance when we determine based on available evidence that it is more likely than not that the assets will not be realized.  We recognize the tax consequences associated with intercompany transfers between the REIT and TRS entities when the related assets are sold to third parties, impaired or otherwise disposed of for financial reporting purposes.  Refer to Note 8 for further information about our income taxes.
Comprehensive Income or Loss As discussed under the preceding Investments in Available for Sale Securities heading, we have investments that are measured at fair value with unrealized gains or losses recognized as an adjustment of accumulated other comprehensive loss within equity and partners capital.  Additionally, as discussed in Note 6 , we recognize changes in the fair value of our cash flow hedges as an adjustment of accumulated other comprehensive loss within equity and partners capital.  The amounts of consolidated comprehensive income or loss for the years ended December31, 2013 , 2012 and 2011 , along with the corresponding amounts of such comprehensive income or loss attributable to Aimco, the Aimco Operating Partnership and to noncontrolling interests, is presented within the accompanying consolidated statements of comprehensive income or loss.
Earnings per Share and Unit Aimco calculates earnings (loss) per share based on the weighted average number of shares of Common Stock, participating securities, common stock equivalents and dilutive convertible securities outstanding during the period.  The Aimco Operating Partnership calculates earnings (loss) per unit based on the weighted average number of common partnership units and equivalents, participating securities and dilutive convertible securities outstanding during the period.  The Aimco Operating Partnership considers both common partnership units and HPUs, which have identical rights to distributions and undistributed earnings, to be common units for purposes of the earnings per unit computations.  See Note 13 for further information regarding earnings per share and unit computations.
Use of Estimates The preparation of our consolidated financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts included in the financial statements and accompanying notes thereto.  Actual results could differ from those estimates.
Reclassifications and Adjustments Certain items included in the 2012 and 2011 financial statements have been reclassified to conform to the current presentation, including adjustments for discontinued operations.
Note 3 Significant Transactions West Harlem Property Loans In 2006, we funded $100.1 million of second mortgage loans related to 84 apartment communities containing 1,596 apartment homes and 43 commercial spaces in the West Harlem neighborhood of New York City. We concurrently entered into an agreement with the borrower under which we had the right to purchase the apartment communities and the borrower had the right to require us to purchase the communities upon achievement of certain revenue thresholds.  At December31, 2012 , the aggregate carrying amount of these second mortgage loans and the purchase option totaled $110.5 million , and were included in notes receivable and other assets, respectively, in our consolidated balance sheets.
Midway through the year ended December31, 2013 , we purchased at par first mortgage loans secured by the same 84 apartment communities for $119.1 million , the majority of which matured on June 1, 2013.  Later in 2013, in accordance with the terms agreed upon when we acquired the first mortgage loans, the borrower repaid for $229.8 million the full amounts due under the first and second mortgage loans, as well as the recognized value of our unexercised option to acquire the apartment communities.
Asset Management Business Disposition On December 19, 2012, we sold the Napico portfolio, our legacy asset management business.  The transaction was primarily seller-financed, and the associated notes are scheduled to be repaid over the next five years.  The notes will be repaid from the operation and liquidation of the Napico portfolio and are collateralized by the buyers interests in the portfolio.
F-22 Table of Contents In accordance with the provisions of GAAP applicable to sales of real estate or interests therein, for accounting purposes, we have not recognized the sale and are accounting for the transaction under the profit sharing method.  Under this method, until full payment has been received for the seller-financed notes, we will continue to recognize the portfolios assets and liabilities, each condensed into single line items within other assets and accrued liabilities and other, respectively, in our consolidated balance sheets, for all dates following the transaction.  Similarly, we will continue to recognize the portfolios results of operations, also condensed into a single line item within our consolidated statements of operations, for periods subsequent to the transaction.  During the year ended December31, 2013 , we received the first cash payment required under the seller-financed notes.
At December31, 2013 , the Napico portfolio consisted of 17 partnerships that held investments in 14 apartment communities that were consolidated and 61 apartment communities that were accounted for under the equity or cost method of accounting.  The portfolios assets and liabilities included in other assets in our consolidated balance sheets are summarized below (in thousands).
December 31, 2013 2012 Real estate, net $ 120,175 $ 125,065 Cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash 29,046 31,558 Investment in unconsolidated real estate partnerships 10,817 15,987 Other assets 3,811 4,146 Total assets $ 163,849 $ 176,756 Total indebtedness $ 106,032 $ 107,562 Accrued and other liabilities 19,263 29,422 Total liabilities 125,295 136,984 Noncontrolling interests in consolidated real estate partnerships 35,818 57,208 Equity attributable to Aimco and the Aimco Operating Partnership 2,736 (17,436 ) Total liabilities and equity $ 163,849 $ 176,756 Summarized information regarding the Napico portfolios results of operations for the year ended December31, 2013 , including any expense we recognize under the profit sharing method, is shown below (in thousands).  The net income (before noncontrolling interests) related to Napico is included in gain on dispositions of unconsolidated real estate and other, net, in our consolidated statement of operations.
2013 Revenues $ 23,711 Expenses (21,188 ) Equity in earnings or loss of unconsolidated entities, gains or losses on dispositions and other, net (748 ) Net income related to legacy asset management business 1,775 Income tax expense associated with legacy asset management business (639 ) Noncontrolling interests in consolidated real estate partnerships 21,370 Net income of legacy asset management business attributable to Aimco and the Aimco Operating Partnership $ 22,506 The assets and liabilities related to consolidated apartment communities sold by the owner of this portfolio through December31, 2013 , have been classified within assets held for sale or liabilities related to assets held for sale, and the results of their operations are presented within income from discontinued operations in our consolidated statement of operations and are excluded from the summaries above.
Based on our limited economic ownership in this portfolio, most of the assets and liabilities are allocated to noncontrolling interests and do not significantly affect our consolidated equity or partners capital.  Additionally, the operating results of this portfolio generally have an insignificant effect on the amounts of income or loss attributable us, except as it relates to the consolidated partnerships within this portfolio that sell their final investments and commence dissolution, which results in the derecognition of all remaining noncontrolling interest balances associated with these partnerships.  During 2013, noncontrolling interests in consolidated real estate partnerships reflects a benefit of $20.6 million to Aimco and the Aimco Operating Partnership's share of net income for the derecognition of such noncontrolling interest balances.
F-23 Table of Contents We consolidated the majority of these entities in connection with our adoption of a new accounting principle in 2010, and at that time recognized a large cumulative effect of a change in accounting principal charge to our equity and partners' capital.  This adjustment represented the cumulative charges to earnings we would have recognized for any distributions or losses allocable to noncontrolling interests in excess of the carrying amount of the associated noncontrolling interest balances had we consolidated these entities from the period of our initial involvement.
Income or loss attributable to these noncontrolling interests will continue to be recognized commensurate with the recognition of the results of operations of the portfolio. If full payment is received on the notes and we meet the requirements to recognize the sale for accounting purposes, we expect to recognize a gain attributable to Aimco and the Aimco Operating Partnership.
Acquisitions of Apartment Communities During the year ended December31, 2013 , we acquired conventional apartment communities located in La Jolla, CA, Atlanta, GA, and Boston, MA, and during the year ended December31, 2012 , we acquired conventional apartment communities located in San Diego, CA, Manhattan, NY, and Phoenix, AZ.  Summarized information regarding these acquisitions is set forth in the table below (dollars in thousands): Year Ended December 31, 2013 2012 Number of apartment homes 134 614 Acquisition price $ 53,575 $ 126,873 Non-recourse property debt assumed (outstanding principal balance) 12,446 38,819 Non-recourse property debt assumed (fair value) 14,767 43,938 Total fair value allocated to real estate 55,896 130,547 During the year ended December31, 2011, we acquired a vacant apartment community with 126 apartment homes, located in Marin County, north of San Francisco, California.  We are redeveloping this apartment community and expect our total investment in this apartment community to approximate $101 million at its completion in the second half of 2014.  During the year ended December31, 2011, we also acquired noncontrolling interests (approximately 50% ) in entities that own four contiguous apartment communities with 142 apartment homes located in La Jolla, California.
Acquisitions of Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Real Estate Partnerships As set forth in the table below (dollars in thousands), during the years ended December31, 2013 , 2012 and 2011 , we acquired the remaining noncontrolling limited partner interests in certain consolidated real estate partnerships in which our affiliates serve as the general partner.
Year Ended December 31, 2013 2012 2011 Consolidated partnerships in which remaining limited partnership interests were acquired 3 11 12 Number of apartment communities owned by partnerships 5 17 15 Cost of limited partnership interests acquired $ 17,900 $ 50,654 $ 22,305 Excess of consideration paid over the carrying amount of noncontrolling interests acquired 17,170 44,777 36,260 In connection with these acquisitions, the Aimco Operating Partnership recognized the excess of the consideration paid over the carrying amounts of the noncontrolling interests acquired as an adjustment of additional paid-in capital within partners capital (which is included in effects of changes in ownership for consolidated entities in the Aimco Operating Partnerships consolidated statements of partners capital).  This amount is allocated between Aimco and noncontrolling interests in the Aimco Operating Partnership within Aimcos consolidated statements of equity.
Disposition of Interests in Unconsolidated Real Estate and Other During the year ended December31, 2013 , the amounts included in gain on dispositions of unconsolidated real estate and other in our consolidated statement of operations primarily related to the legacy asset management business.  During the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011 , we recognized $21.9 million and $2.4 million , respectively, in net gains on disposition of F-24 Table of Contents interests in unconsolidated real estate. Approximately $15.7 million of the gains recognized during 2012 related to the sale of our interests in two unconsolidated real estate partnerships.  The majority of the remainder of the gains recognized in 2012 and substantially all the gains recognized in 2011 related to partnership interests held through the legacy asset management business, in which we had an insignificant economic interest.  Accordingly, these gains related to the legacy asset management business were attributed to noncontrolling interests and had no significant effect on the amounts of income or loss attributable to Aimco or the Aimco Operating Partnership during the years ended December31, 2012 and 2011 .
Note 4 Investments in Unconsolidated Real Estate Partnerships At December31, 2013 , 2012 and 2011 , we owned general and limited partner interests in unconsolidated real estate partnerships that owned 20 , 22 and 123 apartment communities, respectively.  We acquired these interests through various transactions, including large portfolio acquisitions and offers to individual limited partners.  At December31, 2013 , our ownership interests in these unconsolidated real estate partnerships ranged from 5% to 67% .
The following table provides selected combined financial information for the unconsolidated real estate partnerships in which we had investments accounted for under the equity method as of and for the years ended December31, 2013 , 2012 and 2011 (in thousands): 2013 2012 2011 Real estate, net of accumulated depreciation $ 88,014 $ 107,419 $ 429,780 Total assets 93,242 114,658 472,904 Non-recourse property debt and other notes payable 60,660 122,019 321,236 Total liabilities 64,859 132,767 455,591 Partners capital (deficit) 28,383 (18,109 ) 17,313 Rental and other property revenues 16,268 72,636 114,974 Property operating expenses (8,470 ) (49,331 ) (75,934 ) Depreciation and amortization (3,300 ) (18,388 ) (26,323 ) Interest expense (4,185 ) (21,354 ) (27,108 ) Gain on sale and impairment losses, net 36,212 (4,140 ) 22,598 Net income (loss) 35,909 (21,108 ) 6,773 The decrease in the number of unconsolidated apartment communities from 2011 to 2012 was primarily attributed to the sale in December 2012 of the legacy asset management business.  Based on the timing of the sale, the results of operations of the unconsolidated apartment communities in this portfolio are included in the table above for 2012 and 2011 .  Based on our insignificant economic ownership in the legacy asset management business, substantially all of the net equity and results of operations related to the legacy asset management business were attributed to the associated noncontrolling interests.
At December31, 2013 and 2012 , our aggregate recorded investment in unconsolidated partnerships of $16.9 million and $18.7 million , respectively, exceeded our share of the partners capital or deficit recognized in the underlying partnerships' financial statements by approximately $1.1 million and $6.9 million , respectively.
Note 5 Non-Recourse Property Debt and Credit Agreement Non-Recourse Property Debt We finance our apartment communities primarily using long-dated, fixed-rate borrowings, each of which is collateralized by a single apartment community and is non-recourse to us.  The following table summarizes our property debt related to assets classified as held for use at December31, 2013 and 2012 (dollars in thousands): Weighted Average Interest Rate Principal Outstanding 2013 2013 2012 Fixed rate property debt 5.46% $ 4,107,141 $ 4,181,821 Variable rate property debt 2.92% 13,099 13,443 Total $ 4,120,240 $ 4,195,264 Fixed rate property debt matures at various dates through January 2055 . The variable rate property debt matures January 2016 .  Principal and interest are generally payable monthly or in monthly interest-only payments with balloon payments due at maturity.
F-25 Table of Contents At December31, 2013 , each of our property debt instruments related to apartment communities classified as held for use were secured by one of 186 apartment communities that had an aggregate gross book value of $7,251.1 million .
The following table summarizes our property tax-exempt bond financings related to assets classified as held for use at December31, 2013 and 2012 (dollars in thousands): Weighted Average Interest Rate Principal Outstanding 2013 2013 2012 Fixed rate property tax-exempt debt 4.87% $ 85,634 $ 87,220 Variable rate property tax-exempt debt 1.09% 131,911 130,599 Total $ 217,545 $ 217,819 Fixed rate property tax-exempt debt matures at various dates through February 2061 . Variable rate property tax-exempt debt matures at various dates through July 2033 .  Principal and interest on these bonds are generally payable in semi-annual installments with balloon payments due at maturity. Certain of our property tax-exempt bonds at December31, 2013 , are remarketed periodically by a remarketing agent to maintain a variable yield.  If the remarketing agent is unable to remarket the bonds, then the remarketing agent may require us to purchase the bonds.  We believe that the likelihood of this occurring is remote.  At December31, 2013 , our property tax-exempt bonds related to apartment communities classified as held for use were each secured by one of 20 apartment communities that had an aggregate gross book value of $514.2 million .
Our non-recourse property debt instruments contain covenants common to the type of borrowing, and at December31, 2013 , we were in compliance with all such covenants.
As of December31, 2013 , the scheduled principal amortization and maturity payments for our non-recourse property debt related to apartment communities in continuing operations are as follows (in thousands): Amortization Maturities Total 2014 $ 88,010 $ 82,192 $ 170,202 2015 88,424 183,317 271,741 2016 85,380 465,321 550,701 2017 79,223 398,320 477,543 2018 74,232 238,253 312,485 Thereafter 2,555,113 $ 4,337,785 Although the majority of our apartment communities are encumbered by property debt, as of December31, 2013 , we had seven unencumbered consolidated apartment communities, which we expect to hold beyond 2014, with an estimated fair value of approximately $380.0 million .
Credit Agreement We have a Senior Secured Credit Agreement with a syndicate of financial institutions, which we refer to as the Credit Agreement. Our Credit Agreement provides for $600.0 million of revolving loan commitments.  Borrowings under the Credit Agreement bear interest at a rate set forth on a pricing grid, which rate varies based on our leverage (initially either at LIBOR, plus 1.875%, or, at our option, Prime plus 0.5% ).  The Credit Agreement matures in September 2017 , and may be extended for an additional one-year period , subject to certain conditions.
As of December31, 2013 , we had $50.4 million of outstanding borrowings under our Credit Agreement, and we had the capacity to borrow $505.0 million , net of the outstanding borrowings and $44.6 million for undrawn letters of credit backed by the Credit Agreement.  The interest rate on our outstanding borrowings was 3.75% at December31, 2013 .  We had no outstanding borrowings under the Credit Agreement as of December31, 2012 . The proceeds of revolving loans are generally used for working capital and other short-term purposes.
Note 6 Fair Value Measurements In accordance with GAAP, we are required to measure certain assets and liabilities in our consolidated financial statements at fair value.  We are required to classify fair value measurements into one of three categories, based on the nature of the inputs used in the fair value measurement.  Level 1 of the hierarchy includes fair value measurements based on unadjusted quoted prices in F-26 Table of Contents active markets for identical assets or liabilities we can access at the measurement date.  Level 2 includes fair value measurements based on inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly.  Level 3 includes fair value measurements based on unobservable inputs.  The classification of fair value measurements is subjective and GAAP requires disclosure of more detailed information regarding fair value measurements classified within the lower levels of the hierarchy.
Recurring Fair Value Measurements We measure at fair value on a recurring basis our investment in the securitization trust that holds certain of our property debt, which we classify as available for sale (AFS) securities, and our interest rate swaps.  Information regarding these items measured at fair value, both of which are classified within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy, is presented below (in thousands): AFS Investments Interest Rate Swaps Total Fair value at December 31, 2011 $ 51,693 $ (7,012 ) $ 44,681 Investment accretion 3,111  3,111 Unrealized losses included in interest expense  (48 ) (48 ) Losses on interest rate swaps reclassified into interest expense from accumulated other comprehensive loss  1,673 1,673 Unrealized gains (losses) included in equity and partners capital 4,341 (2,581 ) 1,760 Fair value at December 31, 2012 $ 59,145 $ (7,968 ) $ 51,177 Investment accretion 3,451  3,451 Unrealized losses included in interest expense  (48 ) (48 ) Losses on interest rate swaps reclassified into interest expense from accumulated other comprehensive loss  1,678 1,678 Unrealized (losses) gains included in equity and partners capital (4,188 ) 1,734 (2,454 ) Fair value at December 31, 2013 $ 58,408 $ (4,604 ) $ 53,804 Our investments classified as AFS are presented within other assets in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets.  We estimate the fair value of these investments using an income and market approach with primarily observable inputs, including yields and other information regarding similar types of investments, and adjusted for certain unobservable inputs specific to these investments.  We are accreting the discount to the $100.9 million face value of the investments into interest income using the effective interest method over the remaining expected term of the investments, which, as of December31, 2013 , was  approximately 7.4 years.  Our amortized cost basis for these investments, which represents the original cost adjusted for interest accretion less interest payments received, was $59.8 million and $56.3 million at December31, 2013 and 2012 , respectively.  The amortized cost exceeded the fair value of these investments at December31, 2013 , primarily due to increases in market interest rates and a decrease in demand for similar investments as compared to when we purchased the investments.  We currently expect to hold the investments to their maturity dates and we believe we will fully recover our basis in the investments. Accordingly, we believe the current impairment in the fair value, as compared to the amortized cost basis, of these investments is temporary and we have not recognized any of the loss in value in earnings.
For our variable rate debt, we are sometimes required by limited partners in our consolidated real estate partnerships to limit our exposure to interest rate fluctuations by entering into interest rate swap agreements, which moderate our exposure to interest rate risk by effectively converting the interest on variable rate debt to a fixed rate.  We estimate the fair value of interest rate swaps using an income approach with primarily observable inputs including information regarding the hedged variable cash flows and forward yield curves relating to the variable interest rates on which the hedged cash flows are based.
As of December31, 2013 and 2012 , we had interest rate swaps with aggregate notional amounts of $50.7 million and $51.0 million , respectively.  As of December31, 2013 these swaps had a weighted average remaining term of 7.0 years .  We have designated these interest rate swaps as cash flow hedges.  The fair value of these swaps is presented within accrued liabilities and other in our consolidated balance sheets, and we recognize any changes in the fair value as an adjustment of accumulated other comprehensive loss within equity and partners capital to the extent of their effectiveness.
If the forward rates at December31, 2013 remain constant, we estimate that during the next 12 months , we would reclassify into earnings approximately $1.7 million of the unrealized losses in accumulated other comprehensive loss. If market interest rates increase above the 3.43% weighted average fixed rate under these interest rate swaps we will benefit from net cash payments due to us from our counterparty to the interest rate swaps.
F-27 Table of Contents Nonrecurring Fair Value Measurements During the year ended December31, 2012 , we reduced the aggregate carrying amounts of nine assets classified as held for use or held for sale from $81.8 million to their estimated fair values of $65.8 million , resulting in impairment losses of $16.0 million .  During the year ended December31, 2011 , we reduced the aggregate carrying amounts of 19 assets classified as held for sale from $108.2 million to their estimated fair values of $92.3 million , resulting in impairment losses of $15.9 million .
The fair values for the apartment communities we impaired during these periods were based primarily on contract prices for pending sales or expected sales values of the apartment communities.  The contract prices were based in part on unobservable inputs classified within Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy, but were also based on observable inputs that can be validated to observable external sources, such as pricing information about widely marketed apartment communities for sale.
The unobservable inputs that are significant to our estimation of the fair value of real estate impaired during the periods include, among other things, information such as the propertys net operating income, or NOI, free cash flow, or FCF, which represents the propertys NOI less capital spending required to maintain the condition of the apartment community, and assumptions about NOI and FCF growth rates and exit values. An FCF internal rate of return, which represents the rate of return generated by the FCF from the apartment community and the proceeds from its eventual sale, is a common benchmark used in the real estate industry for relative comparison of real estate valuations.  The projected cash flows, including the expected sales prices, on which the impairment losses were based translated to weighted average implied FCF internal rates of return of 7.39% and 7.87% for the apartment communities impaired during the years ended December31, 2012 and 2011 , respectively.
Fair Value Disclosures We believe that the aggregate fair value of our cash and cash equivalents, receivables and payables approximates their aggregate carrying amounts at December31, 2013 and 2012 , due to their relatively short-term nature and high probability of realization.  The estimated aggregate fair value of our consolidated debt (including outstanding borrowings under our Credit Agreement and amounts reported in liabilities related to assets held for sale) was approximately $4.5 billion and $5.1 billion at December31, 2013 and 2012 , respectively, as compared to aggregate carrying amounts of $4.4 billion and $4.7 billion , respectively.  We estimate the fair value of our consolidated debt using an income and market approach, including comparison of the contractual terms to observable and unobservable inputs such as market interest rate risk spreads, contractual interest rates, remaining periods to maturity, collateral quality and loan to value ratios on similarly encumbered assets within our portfolio.  We classify the fair value of our consolidated debt within Level 3 of the valuation hierarchy based on the significance of certain of the unobservable inputs used to estimate their fair values.
Note 7 Commitments and Contingencies Commitments In connection with our redevelopment and capital improvement activities, we have entered into various construction related contracts with commitments totaling approximately $82.6 million , which we expect to incur during the next 12 months . Pursuant to financing arrangements on our Lincoln Place, Pacific Bay Vistas and The Preserve at Marin apartment communities, we are contractually obligated to complete the planned projects.  Additionally, we enter into certain commitments for future purchases of goods and services in connection with the operations of our apartment communities.  Those commitments generally have terms of one year or less and reflect expenditure levels comparable to our historical expenditures.
Additionally, during September 2013, we entered into an agreement with a third-party developer to construct a 12 -story apartment community in Boston, Massachusetts.  Pursuant to this agreement, we expect to invest approximately $190 million over the next two and one-half years (approximately $147 million of which is committed) to build 310 luxury apartment homes and approximately 22,000 square feet of commercial space. The site is leased from the Massachusetts Department of Transportation under a 99 -year ground lease for a total ground rent of $13.0 million , which we paid at the leases commencement.  Pursuant to the lease agreement and financing related to the project, we have provided certain guarantees to complete the project.
Tax Credit Arrangements We are required to manage certain consolidated real estate partnerships in compliance with various laws, regulations and contractual provisions that apply to our historic and low-income housing tax credit syndication arrangements.  In some instances, noncompliance with applicable requirements could result in projected tax benefits not being realized and require a refund or reduction of investor capital contributions, which are reported as deferred income in our consolidated balance sheet, until such time as our obligation to deliver tax benefits is relieved.  The remaining compliance periods for our tax credit syndication arrangements range from less than one year to 12 years .  We do not anticipate that any material refunds or reductions of investor capital contributions will be required in connection with these arrangements.
F-28 Table of Contents Legal Matters In addition to the matters described below, we are a party to various legal actions and administrative proceedings arising in the ordinary course of business, some of which are covered by our general liability insurance program, and none of which we expect to have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.
Limited Partnerships In connection with our acquisitions of interests in real estate partnerships, we are sometimes subject to legal actions, including allegations that such activities may involve breaches of fiduciary duties to the partners of such real estate partnerships or violations of the relevant partnership agreements. We may incur costs in connection with the defense or settlement of such litigation. We believe that we comply with our fiduciary obligations and relevant partnership agreements.  Although the outcome of any litigation is uncertain, we do not expect any such legal actions to have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.
Environmental Various Federal, state and local laws subject apartment community owners or operators to liability for management, and the costs of removal or remediation, of certain potentially hazardous materials present on an apartment community, including lead-based paint, asbestos, polychlorinated biphenyls, petroleum-based fuels, and other miscellaneous materials. Such laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the release or presence of such materials. The presence of, or the failure to manage or remedy properly, these materials may adversely affect occupancy at affected apartment communities and the ability to sell or finance affected apartment communities. In addition to the costs associated with investigation and remediation actions brought by government agencies, and potential fines or penalties imposed by such agencies in connection therewith, the improper management of these materials on an apartment community could result in claims by private plaintiffs for personal injury, disease, disability or other infirmities. Various laws also impose liability for the cost of removal, remediation or disposal of these materials through a licensed disposal or treatment facility. Anyone who arranges for the disposal or treatment of these materials is potentially liable under such laws for the proper operation of the disposal facility. These laws often impose liability whether or not the person arranging for the disposal ever owned or operated the disposal facility. In connection with the ownership, operation and management of apartment communities, we could potentially be responsible for environmental liabilities or costs associated with our apartment communities or communities we acquire or manage in the future.
We have determined that our legal obligations to remove or remediate certain potentially hazardous materials may be conditional asset retirement obligations, as defined in GAAP.  Except in limited circumstances where the asset retirement activities are expected to be performed in connection with a planned construction project or apartment community casualty, we believe that the fair value of our asset retirement obligations cannot be reasonably estimated due to significant uncertainties in the timing and manner of settlement of those obligations.  Asset retirement obligations that are reasonably estimable as of December31, 2013 , are immaterial to our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.
Operating Leases We are obligated under non-cancelable operating leases for office space and equipment.  Approximate minimum annual rental payments under operating leases are as follows (in thousands): Operating Lease Obligations 2014 $ 3,249 2015 2,442 2016 2,249 2017 1,985 2018 841 Total $ 10,766 Substantially all of the office space subject to the operating leases in the table above is for the use of our corporate offices and area operations.  Rent expense recognized totaled $4.2 million , $4.6 million and $5.4 million for the years ended December31, 2013 , 2012 and 2011 , respectively.
F-29 Table of Contents Note 8  Income Taxes Deferred income taxes reflect the net effects of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities of the TRS entities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for income tax purposes.  Significant components of our deferred tax liabilities and assets are as follows (in thousands): December 31, 2013 2012 Deferred tax liabilities: Partnership differences $ 50,290 $ 29,745 Deferred revenue 25,596 23,139 Capitalized interest 11,424 16,157 Other 49  Total deferred tax liabilities $ 87,359 $ 69,041 Deferred tax assets: Net operating, capital and other loss carryforwards $ 62,651 $ 66,145 Differences in basis of real estate 35,604 33,321 Receivables 440 1,183 Accruals and expenses 9,272 9,398 Tax credit carryforwards 12,905 7,724 Management contracts and other 393 629 Total deferred tax assets 121,265 118,400 Valuation allowance (3,553 ) (4,531 ) Net deferred income tax assets $ 30,353 $ 44,828 During the year ended December 31, 2013, we reduced the valuation allowance on a net basis by approximately $1.0 million , largely due to the expiration of tax credit carryforwards that had been fully reserved, with no impact on the effective tax rate.
A reconciliation of the beginning and ending balance of our unrecognized tax benefits is presented below (in thousands): 2013 2012 2011 Balance at January 1 $ 3,536 $ 3,917 $ 4,071 Reductions as a result of a lapse of the applicable statutes (764 ) (684 )  Additions (reductions) based on tax positions related to prior years and current year excess benefits related to stock-based compensation 99 303 (154 ) Balance at December 31 $ 2,871 $ 3,536 $ 3,917 Because the statute of limitations has not yet elapsed, our Federal income tax returns for the year ended December 31, 2009, and subsequent years and certain of our State income tax returns for the year ended December 31, 2007, and subsequent years are currently subject to examination by the IRS or other taxing authorities.  Approximately $2.2 million of unrecognized benefit, if recognized, would affect the effective rate.
On October 25, 2012, the IRS issued Final Partnership Administrative Adjustments with respect to the Aimco Operating Partnerships 2006 and 2007 tax years. On January 18, 2013, AIMCO-GP, Inc., in its capacity as tax matters partner of the Aimco Operating Partnership, filed a petition challenging those adjustments in the United States Tax Court in Washington, D.C. On December 20, 2013, the parties agreed on the terms of a settlement of that litigation. The court ordered the parties to file stipulated decision documents by March 20, 2014, or to file a joint status report. The settlement regarding the 2006 or 2007 proposed adjustments will not have any material effect on our unrecognized tax benefits, financial condition or results of operations.
Our policy is to include any interest and penalties related to income taxes within the income tax line item in our consolidated statements of operations.
In accordance with the accounting requirements for stock-based compensation, we may recognize tax benefits in connection with the exercise of stock options by employees of our TRS entities and the vesting of restricted stock awards.  During the years ended December31, 2013 and 2012 , we had cumulatively $0.6 million and $0.5 million , respectively, in excess tax benefits from employee stock option exercises and vested restricted stock awards.  None of the excess tax benefits have yet been realized.
F-30 Table of Contents Significant components of the income tax benefit or expense are as follows and are classified within income tax benefit in continuing operations and income from discontinued operations, net in our statements of operations for the years ended December31, 2013 , 2012 and 2011 (in thousands): 2013 2012 2011 Current: Federal $  $  $ (109 ) State 63 1,047 604 Total current 63 1,047 495 Deferred: Federal 7,621 7,116 (143 ) State 1,685 812 (903 ) Total deferred 9,306 7,928 (1,046 ) Total expense (benefit) $ 9,369 $ 8,975 $ (551 ) Classification: Continuing operations $ (1,959 ) $ (858 ) $ (5,941 ) Discontinued operations $ 11,328 $ 9,833 $ 5,390 Consolidated income or loss subject to tax consists of pretax income or loss of our TRS entities and gains or losses on certain apartment community sales that are subject to income tax under section 1374 of the Internal Revenue Code.  For the years ended December31, 2013 , 2012 and 2011 , we had consolidated income subject to tax of $46.6 million , $19.0 million and $5.0 million , respectively.  The reconciliation of income tax attributable to continuing and discontinued operations computed at the U.S. statutory rate to income tax expense (benefit) is shown below (dollars in thousands): 2013 2012 2011 Amount Percent Amount Percent Amount Percent Tax at U.S. statutory rates on consolidated income or loss subject to tax $ 16,326 35.0 % $ 6,642 35.0 % $ 1,756 35.0 % State income tax expense (benefit), net of Federal tax (benefit) expense 1,748 3.7 % 1,859 9.8 % (299 ) (6.0 )% Effect of permanent differences (296 ) (0.6 )% (256 ) (1.3 )% (565 ) (11.3 )% Tax effect of intercompany transfers of assets between the REIT and taxable REIT subsidiaries (1) (4,272 ) (9.2 )% 730 3.8 % (1,965 ) (39.2 )% Tax credits (4,137 ) (8.9 )%   %   % Increase in valuation allowance   %   % 522 10.4 % $ 9,369 20.0 % $ 8,975 47.3 % $ (551 ) (11.1 )% (1) Includes the effect of assets contributed by the Aimco Operating Partnership to TRS entities, for which deferred tax expense or benefit was recognized upon the sale or impairment of the asset by the TRS entity.
Income taxes paid totaled approximately $0.6 million , $1.1 million and $1.2 million , respectively, in the years ended December31, 2013 , 2012 and 2011 , respectively.
At December31, 2013 , we had net operating loss carryforwards, or NOLs, of approximately $150.8 million for income tax purposes that expire in years 2027 to 2032 .  Subject to certain separate return limitations, we may use these NOLs to offset all or a portion of taxable income generated by our TRS entities. We utilized approximately $15.8 million of NOLs during the year ended December31, 2013 , as a result of taxable gains recognized by our TRS entities.  As of December31, 2013 , we had low-income housing and historic tax credit carryforwards of approximately $13.4 million for income tax purposes that expire for the tax years 2017 to 2032 .  The deferred tax asset related to these credits is approximately $12.9 million .
F-31 Table of Contents For income tax purposes, dividends paid to holders of Common Stock primarily consist of ordinary income, return of capital, capital gains, qualified dividends and unrecaptured Section 1250 gains, or a combination thereof.  For the years ended December31, 2013 , 2012 and 2011 , dividends per share held for the entire year were estimated to be taxable as follows: 2013 2012 2011 Amount Percentage Amount Percentage Amount Percentage Ordinary income $ 0.17 17.9 % $   % $   % Capital gains 0.13 13.9 % 0.35 46.6 % 0.12 24.0 % Unrecaptured Section 1250 gain 0.66 68.2 % 0.41 53.4 % 0.36 76.0 % $ 0.96 100.0 % $ 0.76 100.0 % $ 0.48 100.0 % We designated the per share amounts above as capital gain dividends in accordance with the requirements under the Code.  Additionally, we designated as 2013 capital gain dividends a like portion of preferred dividends.
Note 9 Aimco Equity Preferred Stock At December31, 2013 and 2012 , Aimco had the following classes of perpetual preferred stock outstanding (dollars in thousands): Redemption Annual Dividend Rate Per Share (paid quarterly) Balance December 31, Date (1) 2013 2012 Class Z Cumulative Preferred Stock, 4,800,000 shares authorized and 1,274,243 shares issued/outstanding 7/29/2016 7.00% $ 31,114 $ 31,114 Series A Community Reinvestment Act Preferred Stock, 240 shares authorized and 74 shares issued/outstanding 6/30/2011 (2) 37,000 37,000 Preferred stock per consolidated balance sheets $ 68,114 $ 68,114 (1) All classes of preferred stock were or are redeemable at our option on and after the dates specified.
(2) For the period from the date of original issuance through March31, 2015, the dividend rate is a variable rate per annum equal to the Three-Month LIBOR Rate (as defined in the articles supplementary designating the SeriesA Community Reinvestment Act Perpetual Preferred Stock, or CRA Preferred Stock) plus 1.25%, calculated as of the beginning of each quarterly dividend period .  The rate at December31, 2013 and 2012 was 1.50% and 1.61% , respectively.
All classes of preferred stock have a $0.01 per share par value, are pari passu with each other and are senior to our Common Stock.  The holders of each class of preferred stock are generally not entitled to vote on matters submitted to stockholders. Dividends on all shares of preferred stock are subject to declaration by our Board of Directors.  Our Class Z Preferred Stock and Series A Community Reinvestment Act Preferred Stock have liquidation preferences per share of $25.00 and $500,000 , respectively.
During the year end December 31, 2012, Aimco redeemed 24.0 million shares of preferred stock with a weighted average dividend rate of 7.86% for $600.9 million .  During the year ended December 31, 2011, Aimco redeemed 0.9 million shares of preferred stock with a dividend rate of 8.00% for $21.6 million .  In connection with these redemptions, the Aimco Operating Partnership redeemed from Aimco a number of Partnership Preferred Units equal to the number of shares redeemed by Aimco.  In connection with these redemptions, we wrote off previously deferred issuance costs of $20.7 million and $0.8 million , respectively, during the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, which is reflected as an adjustment of net income attributable to Aimco preferred stockholders and the Aimco Operating Partnerships preferred unitholders in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations for such periods.
F-32 Table of Contents The following table summarizes our issuances of Class Z Preferred Stock during the years ended  December31, 2012 and 2011 (dollars in thousands, except per share amounts): Years Ended December 31, 2012 2011 Number of shares of preferred stock issued 405,090 869,153 Price to public per share $ 24.78 $ 24.25 Underwriting discounts, commissions and transaction costs per share $ 0.54 $ 1.25 Net proceeds per share $ 24.24 $ 23.00 Net proceeds to Aimco $ 9,818 $ 19,990 Issuance costs (primarily underwriting commissions) recognized as an adjustment of additional paid-in capital $ 221 $ 1,085 Aimco contributed the net proceeds from the issuances of Class Z Preferred Stock to the Aimco Operating Partnership in exchange for a number of Class Z Partnership Preferred Units equal to the number of shares issued by Aimco.
Common Stock During the year ended December31, 2012, Aimco completed two public offerings resulting in the sale of an aggregate of 22,144,200 shares of its Common Stock, generating net proceeds of $594.4 million , or net proceeds per share of $26.84 .  In addition, in connection with one of these offerings, the holders of near-term expiring stock options exercised 2,041,934 stock options with a weighted average exercise price of $23.01 per share for proceeds to Aimco of $47.0 million .  The shares received upon exercise of the options were then sold by the stockholders as part of the offering.
During the year ended December31, 2011, Aimco sold 2,914,000 shares of its Common Stock pursuant to an At-The-Market, or ATM, offering program, generating $71.9 million of net proceeds.
Aimco contributed the net proceeds from the sales and issuances of Common Stock to the Aimco Operating Partnership in exchange for a number of common partnership units equal to the number of shares sold and issued.
Registration Statements Pursuant to ATM offering programs active at December31, 2013 , Aimco had the capacity to issue up to 3.5 million additional shares of its Common Stock and up to 3.5 million additional shares of its Class Z Preferred Stock.  In the event of any such issuances by Aimco, the Aimco Operating Partnership would issue to Aimco a corresponding number of common partnership units or Class Z Partnership Preferred Units in exchange for the proceeds.
Additionally, Aimco and the Aimco Operating Partnership have a shelf registration statement that provides for the issuance of debt and equity securities by Aimco and debt securities by the Aimco Operating Partnership.
Note 10 Partners Capital Partnership Preferred Units Owned by Aimco At December31, 2013 and 2012 , the Aimco Operating Partnership had outstanding Partnership Preferred Units in classes and amounts similar to Aimcos Preferred Stock discussed in Note 9 .  All of these classes of Partnership Preferred Units were owned by Aimco during the periods presented.
All classes of Partnership Preferred Units are pari passu with each other and are senior to the Aimco Operating Partnerships common partnership units.  None of the classes of Partnership Preferred Units have any voting rights, except the right to approve certain changes to the Aimco Operating Partnerships Partnership Agreement that would adversely affect holders of such class of units.  Distributions on all Partnership Preferred Units are subject to being declared by the General Partner.  All classes of the Partnership Preferred Units are redeemable by the Aimco Operating Partnership only in connection with a concurrent redemption by Aimco of the corresponding classes of Aimco Preferred Stock held by unrelated parties.
As discussed in Note 9 , during the years ended December31, 2012 and 2011 , Aimco completed various Preferred Stock issuances and redemptions.  In connection with these issuances and redemptions, the Aimco Operating Partnership issued to Aimco or redeemed from Aimco a corresponding number of Partnership Preferred Units.
F-33 Table of Contents Redeemable Partnership Preferred Units In addition to the Partnership Preferred Units owned by Aimco, the Aimco Operating Partnership has outstanding various classes of redeemable Partnership Preferred Units owned by third parties, which we refer to as Preferred OP Units.  As of December31, 2013 and 2012 , the following classes of Preferred OP Units (stated at their redemption values, in thousands, except unit and per unit data): Distributions per Annum Units Issued and Outstanding Balances Class of Preferred Units Percent Per Unit 2013 2012 2013 2012 Class One 8.75 % $ 8.00 90,000 90,000 $ 8,229 $ 8,229 Class Two 1.84 % $ 0.46 18,589 18,589 465 465 Class Three 7.88 % $ 1.97 1,354,091 1,357,691 33,852 33,942 Class Four 8.00 % $ 2.00 644,954 644,954 16,124 16,124 Class Six 8.50 % $ 2.13 790,883 790,883 19,772 19,772 Class Seven 7.87 % $ 1.97 27,960 27,960 699 699 Total 2,926,477 2,930,077 $ 79,141 $ 79,231 All of the remaining outstanding classes of Preferred OP Units at December31, 2013 , are redeemable atthe holders option.   The Aimco Operating Partnership, at its sole discretion, may settle such redemption requests in cash or cause Aimco to issue shares of its Common Stock in a value equal to the redemption price.  In the event the Aimco Operating Partnership requires Aimco to issue shares of Common Stock to settle a redemption request, the Aimco Operating Partnership would issue to Aimco a corresponding number of common partnership units.  The Aimco Operating Partnership has a redemption policy that requires cash settlement of redemption requests for the redeemable preferred OP Units, subject to limited exceptions.  Accordingly, these redeemable units are classified within temporary equity in Aimcos consolidated balance sheets and within temporary capital in the Aimco Operating Partnerships consolidated balance sheets, based on the expectation that the Aimco Operating Partnership will use cash to settle any redemption of these units.  Subject to certain conditions, the Class Four and Class Six preferred OP Units are convertible into common OP Units.
During the years ended December31, 2013 , 2012 and 2011 , approximately 3,600 , 131,400 and 1,600 preferred OP Units, respectively, were tendered for redemption in exchange for cash, and no preferred OP Units were tendered for redemption in exchange for shares of Aimco Common Stock.
The following table presents a reconciliation of the Aimco Operating Partnerships redeemable Partnership Preferred Units that were classified within temporary equity in Aimcos consolidated balance sheets and temporary capital within the Aimco Operating Partnerships consolidated balance sheets during the years ended December31, 2013 , 2012 and 2011 (dollars in thousands).  The redeemable Partnership Preferred Units presented in this reconciliation include the redeemable Preferred OP Units as well as the CRA Preferred Units held by Aimco, which were redeemed by Aimco during 2011.
2013 2012 2011 Balance at January 1 $ 80,046 $ 83,384 $ 103,428 Preferred distributions (6,423 ) (6,496 ) (6,683 ) Redemption of preferred units (93 ) (3,338 ) (20,044 ) Net income 6,423 6,496 6,683 Balance at December 31 $ 79,953 $ 80,046 $ 83,384 Common Partnership Units In the Aimco Operating Partnerships consolidated balance sheets, the common partnership units held by Aimco are classified within Partners Capital as General Partner and Special Limited Partner capital and the common OP Units are classified within Limited Partners capital.  In Aimcos consolidated balance sheets, the common OP Units are classified within permanent equity as common noncontrolling interests in the Aimco Operating Partnership.
Common partnership units held by Aimco are not redeemable.  Common OP Units are redeemable at the holders option, subject to certain restrictions, on the basis of one common OP Unit for either one share of  Common Stock or cash equal to the fair value of a share of Common Stock at the time of redemption.  Aimco has the option to deliver shares of Common Stock in exchange for all or any portion of the common OP Units tendered for redemption.  When a limited partner redeems a common OP Unit for F-34 Table of Contents Common Stock, Limited Partners capital is reduced and the General Partner and Special Limited Partners capital is increased. The holders of the common OP Units receive distributions, prorated from the date of issuance, in an amount equivalent to the dividends paid to holders of Common Stock.
During the years ended December31, 2013 , 2012 and 2011 , the Aimco Operating Partnership acquired the noncontrolling limited partnership interests in certain consolidated real estate partnerships in exchange for cash and the Aimco Operating Partnerships issuance of approximately 21,500 , 184,000 and 6,900 common OP Units, respectively.
During the years ended December31, 2013 , 2012 and 2011 , approximately 105,000 , 416,000 and 237,000 common OP Units, respectively, were redeemed in exchange for cash, and no common OP Units were redeemed in exchange for shares of Common Stock.
HPUs At December31, 2013 and 2012 , the Aimco Operating Partnership had outstanding 2,339,950 HPUs.  The holders of HPUs may redeem these units commencing after December31, 2016 , on the basis of one HPU for either one share of Common Stock or cash equal to the fair value of a share of Common Stock at the time of redemption, at Aimcos option. The holders of HPUs receive the same amount of distributions that are paid to holders of an equivalent number of common OP Units.  The HPUs are classified within permanent capital as part of Limited Partners capital in the Aimco Operating Partnerships consolidated balance sheets, and within permanent equity as part of common noncontrolling interests in the Aimco Operating Partnership within Aimcos consolidated balance sheets.
Repayment of Notes Receivable from Aimco As of December31, 2010, the Aimco Operating Partnership had notes receivable from Aimco that it received in exchange for the sale of certain apartment communities to Aimco in December 2000.  The notes bore interest at 5.7% per annum and had original principal amounts of $10.1 million .  During the year ended December31, 2011, Aimco repaid the then outstanding $18.5 million of outstanding principal and interest due on these notes, using its share of proceeds from a $19.7 million , or $0.15 per unit, special distribution the Aimco Operating Partnership declared and paid to holders of common partnership units and HPUs on that date.
Note 11 Share-Based Compensation We have a stock award and incentive plan to attract and retain officers, key employees and independent directors.  Our plan reserves for issuance a maximum of 4.4 million shares, which may be in the form of incentive stock options, non-qualified stock options and restricted stock, or other types of awards as authorized under our plan.  At December31, 2013 , there were approximately 1.0 million shares available to be granted under our plan.  Our plan is administered by the Compensation and Human Resources Committee of the Board of Directors.  In the case of stock options, the exercise price of the options granted may not be less than the fair market value of a share of Common Stock at the date of grant.  The term of the options is generally 10 years from the date of grant and the options typically vest over a period of four years from the date of grant. Restricted stock awards typically vest over a period of four years.
The following table summarizes activity for our outstanding stock options for the years ended December31, 2013 , 2012 and 2011 (numbers of options in thousands): 2013 2012 2011 Number of Options Weighted Average Exercise Price Number of Options Weighted Average Exercise Price Number of Options Weighted Average Exercise Price Outstanding at beginning of year 3,045 $ 28.39 6,809 $ 26.47 7,733 $ 26.53 Exercised (44 ) 22.52 (2,253 ) 21.75 (203 ) 8.99 Forfeited (10 ) 27.82 (1,511 ) 29.66 (721 ) 32.09 Outstanding at end of year 2,991 $ 28.48 3,045 $ 28.39 6,809 $ 26.47 Exercisable at end of year 2,991 $ 28.48 2,841 $ 29.79 6,146 $ 27.50 The intrinsic value of a stock option represents the amount by which the current price of the underlying stock exceeds the exercise price of the option.  Options outstanding and exercisable at December31, 2013 , had an aggregate intrinsic value of $3.6 million and a weighted average remaining contractual term of 3.0 years .  The intrinsic value of stock options exercised during the years ended December31, 2013 , 2012 and 2011 , was $0.3 million , $10.9 million and $3.0 million respectively.
F-35 Table of Contents The following table summarizes activity for restricted stock awards for the years ended December31, 2013 , 2012 and 2011 (numbers of shares in thousands): 2013 2012 2011 Number of Shares Weighted Average Grant-Date Fair Value Number of Shares Weighted Average Grant-Date Fair Value Number of Shares Weighted Average Grant-Date Fair Value Unvested at beginning of year 526 $ 22.69 463 $ 21.53 544 $ 19.36 Granted 253 27.86 241 24.31 290 25.59 Vested (204 ) 21.81 (178 ) 21.86 (243 ) 24.31 Forfeited     (128 ) 16.16 Unvested at end of year 575 $ 25.28 526 $ 22.69 463 $ 21.53 The aggregate fair value of shares that vested during the years ended December31, 2013 , 2012 and 2011 was $5.7 million , $4.4 million and $6.1 million , respectively.
Total compensation cost recognized for restricted stock and stock option awards was $5.9 million , $5.3 million and $5.9 million for the years ended December31, 2013 , 2012 and 2011 , respectively.  Of these amounts, $0.3 million , $0.4 million and $0.5 million , respectively, were capitalized.  At December31, 2013 , total unvested compensation cost not yet recognized was $8.6 million .  We expect to recognize this compensation over a weighted average period of approximately 1.7 years .
Note 12 Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations We report as discontinued operations apartment communities that meet the definition of a component of an entity and have been sold or meet the criteria to be classified as held for sale.  We include all results of these discontinued operations, less applicable income taxes, in a separate component of income on the consolidated statements of operations under the heading income from discontinued operations, net.  This treatment resulted in the retrospective adjustment of the 2012 and 2011 statements of operations and the 2012 balance sheets.
We are currently marketing for sale certain apartment communities that are inconsistent with our long-term investment strategy.  At the end of each reporting period, we evaluate whether such apartment communities meet the criteria to be classified as held for sale, including whether we expect to sell such apartment communities within 12 months .  Additionally, certain apartment communities that do not meet all of the criteria to be classified as held for sale at the balance sheet date may nevertheless be sold and included in discontinued operations in the subsequent 12 months ; thus the number of apartment communities that may be sold during the subsequent 12 months could exceed the number classified as held for sale.  At December31, 2013 , we had no apartment communities classified as held for sale.  At December31, 2012 , after adjustments to classify as held for sale apartment communities that were sold during the year ended December31, 2013 , we had 29 apartment communities with an aggregate of 6,953 apartment homes classified as held for sale.  Amounts classified as held for sale in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets as of December31, 2012 , are as follows (in thousands): December31, 2012 Real estate, net $ 279,653 Other assets 10,093 Assets held for sale $ 289,746 Non-recourse property debt $ 278,538 Other liabilities 2,900 Liabilities related to assets held for sale $ 281,438 During the years ended December31, 2013 , 2012 and 2011 , we sold 29 , 75 and 67 consolidated apartment communities with an aggregate of 6,953 , 11,232 and 10,912 apartment homes, respectively.  For each of the periods presented, discontinued operations includes the results of operations for the periods prior to the date of disposition for all apartment communities sold as of December31, 2013 .
F-36 Table of Contents The following is a summary of the components of income from discontinued operations and the related amounts of income from discontinued operations attributable to Aimco, the Aimco Operating Partnership and noncontrolling interests for the years ended December31, 2013 , 2012 and 2011 (in thousands): 2013 2012 2011 Rental and other property revenues $ 62,152 $ 140,634 $ 226,623 Property operating expenses (30,695 ) (62,781 ) (111,549 ) Depreciation and amortization (16,372 ) (41,577 ) (72,099 ) Recovery of (provision for) real estate impairment losses 16 (17,452 ) (20,246 ) Operating income 15,101 18,824 22,729 Interest income 343 568 1,561 Interest expense (13,346 ) (29,972 ) (49,030 ) Income (loss) before gain on dispositions of real estate and income tax 2,098 (10,580 ) (24,740 ) Gain on dispositions of real estate 212,459 234,530 108,203 Income tax expense (11,328 ) (9,833 ) (5,390 ) Income from discontinued operations, net $ 203,229 $ 214,117 $ 78,073 Income from discontinued operations attributable to noncontrolling interests in consolidated real estate partnerships (31,842 ) (41,633 ) (32,231 ) Income from discontinued operations attributable to the Aimco Operating Partnership $ 171,387 $ 172,484 45,842 Income from discontinued operations attributable to noncontrolling interests in Aimco Operating Partnership (9,248 ) (10,238 ) (3,147 ) Income from discontinued operations attributable to Aimco $ 162,139 $ 162,246 $ 42,695 Gain on dispositions of real estate is reported net of incremental direct costs incurred in connection with the transactions, including any prepayment penalties incurred upon repayment of property debt collateralized by the apartment communities being sold.  Such prepayment penalties totaled $16.5 million , $16.5 million and $14.9 million for the years ended December31, 2013 , 2012 and 2011 , respectively.  We classify interest expense related to property debt within discontinued operations when the related real estate asset is sold or classified as held for sale.
F-37 Table of Contents Note 13 Earnings (Loss) per Share/Unit Aimco The following table illustrates Aimcos calculation of basic and diluted earnings (loss) per share for the years ended December31, 2013 , 2012 and 2011 (in thousands, except per share data): 2013 2012 2011 Numerator: Income (loss) from continuing operations $ 34,596 $ (18,756 ) $ (136,237 ) Loss (income) from continuing operations attributable to noncontrolling interests 10,555 (11,034 ) 36,455 Income attributable to preferred stockholders (2,804 ) (49,888 ) (45,852 ) Income attributable to participating securities (813 ) (422 ) (222 ) Income (loss) from continuing operations attributable to Aimco common stockholders $ 41,534 $ (80,100 ) $ (145,856 ) Income from discontinued operations $ 203,229 $ 214,117 $ 78,073 Income from discontinued operations attributable to noncontrolling interests (41,090 ) (51,871 ) (35,378 ) Income from discontinued operations attributable to Aimco common stockholders $ 162,139 $ 162,246 $ 42,695 Net income (loss) $ 237,825 $ 195,361 $ (58,164 ) Net (income) loss attributable to noncontrolling interests (30,535 ) (62,905 ) 1,077 Net income attributable to preferred stockholders (2,804 ) (49,888 ) (45,852 ) Net income attributable to participating securities (813 ) (422 ) (222 ) Net income (loss) attributable to Aimco common stockholders $ 203,673 $ 82,146 $ (103,161 ) Denominator: Weighted average common shares outstanding  basic 145,291 134,479 119,312 Dilutive potential common shares 241   Weighted average common shares outstanding  diluted 145,532 134,479 119,312 Earnings (loss) per common share  basic and diluted: Income (loss) from continuing operations attributable to Aimco common stockholders $ 0.29 $ (0.60 ) $ (1.22 ) Income from discontinued operations attributable to Aimco common stockholders 1.11 1.21 0.36 Net income (loss) attributable to Aimco common stockholders $ 1.40 $ 0.61 $ (0.86 ) Dividends declared per common share $ 0.96 $ 0.76 $ 0.48 F-38 Table of Contents The Aimco Operating Partnership The following table illustrates the Aimco Operating Partnerships calculation of basic and diluted earnings (loss) per unit for the years ended December31, 2013 , 2012 and 2011 (in thousands, except per unit data): 2013 2012 2011 Numerator: Income (loss) from continuing operations $ 34,596 $ (18,756 ) $ (134,938 ) Loss (income) from continuing operations attributable to noncontrolling interests 19,369 (9,585 ) 32,488 Income attributable to the Partnerships preferred unitholders (9,227 ) (56,384 ) (52,535 ) Income attributable to participating securities (813 ) (422 ) (222 ) Income (loss) from continuing operations attributable to the Partnerships common unitholders $ 43,925 $ (85,147 ) $ (155,207 ) Income from discontinued operations $ 203,229 $ 214,117 $ 78,073 Income from discontinued operations attributable to noncontrolling interests (31,842 ) (41,633 ) (32,231 ) Income from discontinued operations attributable to the Partnerships common unitholders $ 171,387 $ 172,484 $ 45,842 Net income (loss) $ 237,825 $ 195,361 $ (56,865 ) Net (income) loss attributable to noncontrolling interests (12,473 ) (51,218 ) 257 Net income attributable to the Partnerships preferred unitholders (9,227 ) (56,384 ) (52,535 ) Net income attributable to participating securities (813 ) (422 ) (222 ) Net income (loss) attributable to the Partnerships common unitholders $ 215,312 $ 87,337 $ (109,365 ) Denominator: Weighted average common units outstanding  basic 153,256 142,614 127,681 Dilutive potential common units 241   Weighted average common units outstanding  diluted 153,497 142,614 127,681 Earnings (loss) per common unit  basic and diluted: Income (loss) from continuing operations attributable to the Partnerships common unitholders $ 0.29 $ (0.60 ) $ (1.22 ) Income from discontinued operations attributable to the Partnerships common unitholders 1.11 1.21 0.36 Net income (loss) attributable to the Partnerships common unitholders $ 1.40 $ 0.61 $ (0.86 ) Distributions declared per unit $ 0.96 $ 0.76 $ 0.63 Distributions declared per unit during the year ended December31, 2011, includes a special distribution of $0.15 per unit which is discussed further in Note 10 .
Aimco and the Aimco Operating Partnership As of December31, 2013 ,  the common share or unit equivalents that could potentially dilute basic earnings per share or unit in future periods totaled 3.0 million .  These securities represent options to purchase shares of Common Stock, which, if exercised, would result in Aimcos issuance of additional shares and the Aimco Operating Partnerships issuance to Aimco of additional common partnership units equal to the number of shares purchased under the options.  The effect of these securities was dilutive for the year ended December31, 2013 , and accordingly has been included in the denominator for calculating diluted earnings per share and unit for this period.  These securities have been excluded from the earnings (loss) per share or unit computations for the years ended December31, 2012 and 2011 , because their effect would have been anti-dilutive.  Participating securities, consisting primarily of unvested restricted shares of Common Stock, receive dividends similar to shares of Common Stock and common partnership units and totaled 0.6 million , 0.5 million and 0.5 million at December31, 2013 , 2012 and 2011 , respectively.  The effect of participating securities is included in basic and diluted earnings (loss) per share and unit computations for the periods presented above using the two-class method of allocating distributed and undistributed earnings.
As discussed in Note 10 , the Aimco Operating Partnership has various classes of preferred OP Units, which may be redeemed at the holders option. The Aimco Operating Partnership may redeem these units for cash or at its option, shares of Common Stock.  As of December31, 2013 , these preferred OP Units were potentially redeemable for approximately 3.1 million shares of Common Stock (based on the period end market price), or cash at the Aimco Operating Partnerships option.  The Aimco Operating Partnership F-39 Table of Contents has a redemption policy that requires cash settlement of redemption requests for the preferred OP Units, subject to limited exceptions.  Accordingly, we expect these securities to be excluded from earnings (loss) per share or unit computations in future periods.
Note 14  Unaudited Summarized Consolidated Quarterly Information Aimco Aimcos summarized unaudited consolidated quarterly information for 2013 and 2012 is provided below (in thousands, except per share amounts).
Quarter (1) 2013 First Second Third Fourth Total revenues $ 237,504 $ 241,744 $ 243,943 $ 250,862 Total operating expenses (184,864 ) (183,033 ) (179,430 ) (177,707 ) Operating income 52,640 58,711 64,513 73,155 (Loss) income from continuing operations (1,662 ) 2,477 6,977 26,804 Income from discontinued operations, net 4,495 4,502 72,433 121,799 Net income 2,833 6,979 79,410 148,603 Net income attributable to Aimco common stockholders $ 5,050 $ 10,107 $ 66,268 $ 122,037 Earnings (loss) per common share - basic and diluted: (Loss) income from continuing operations attributable to Aimco common stockholders $ (0.01 ) $ 0.01 $ 0.04 $ 0.25 Net income attributable to Aimco common stockholders $ 0.03 $ 0.07 $ 0.46 $ 0.84 Weighted average common shares outstanding - basic 145,169 145,321 145,334 145,341 Weighted average common shares outstanding - diluted 145,169 145,674 145,563 145,499 Quarter (1) 2012 First Second Third Fourth Total revenues $ 231,748 $ 236,085 $ 242,973 $ 247,705 Total operating expenses (199,743 ) (190,343 ) (197,071 ) (192,338 ) Operating income 32,005 45,742 45,902 55,367 (Loss) income from continuing operations (26,294 ) (5,670 ) 5,369 7,839 Income from discontinued operations, net 36,941 39,801 47,966 89,409 Net income 10,647 34,131 53,335 97,248 Net (loss) income attributable to Aimco common stockholders $ (10,609 ) $ 523 $ 24,163 $ 67,928 Loss per common share - basic and diluted: Loss from continuing operations attributable to Aimco common stockholders $ (0.30 ) $ (0.25 ) $ (0.07 ) $ (0.01 ) Net (loss) income attributable to Aimco common stockholders $ (0.09 ) $  $ 0.17 $ 0.47 Weighted average common shares outstanding - basic and diluted 120,526 127,395 144,959 145,035 F-40 Table of Contents The Aimco Operating Partnership The Aimco Operating Partnerships summarized unaudited consolidated quarterly information for 2013 and 2012 is provided below (in thousands, except per share amounts).
Quarter (1) 2013 First Second Third Fourth Total revenues $ 237,504 $ 241,744 $ 243,943 $ 250,862 Total operating expenses (184,864 ) (183,033 ) (179,430 ) (177,707 ) Operating income 52,640 58,711 64,513 73,155 (Loss) income from continuing operations (1,662 ) 2,477 6,977 26,804 Income from discontinued operations, net 4,495 4,502 72,433 121,799 Net income 2,833 6,979 79,410 148,603 Net income attributable to the Partnerships common unitholders $ 5,347 $ 10,682 $ 70,064 $ 129,008 Earnings (loss) per common unit - basic and diluted: (Loss) income from continuing operations attributable to the Partnerships common unitholders $ (0.01 ) $ 0.01 $ 0.04 $ 0.25 Net income attributable to the Partnerships common unitholders $ 0.03 $ 0.07 $ 0.46 $ 0.84 Weighted average common units outstanding - basic 153,169 153,294 153,287 153,276 Weighted average common units outstanding - diluted 153,169 153,647 153,516 153,434 Quarter (1) 2012 First Second Third Fourth Total revenues $ 231,748 $ 236,085 $ 242,973 $ 247,705 Total operating expenses (199,743 ) (190,343 ) (197,071 ) (192,338 ) Operating income 32,005 45,742 45,902 55,367 (Loss) income from continuing operations (26,294 ) (5,670 ) 5,369 7,839 Income from discontinued operations, net 36,941 39,801 47,966 89,409 Net income 10,647 34,131 53,335 97,248 Net (loss) income attributable to the Partnerships common unitholders $ (11,346 ) $ 578 $ 25,774 $ 72,190 Loss per common unit - basic and diluted: Loss from continuing operations attributable to the Partnerships common unitholders $ (0.30 ) $ (0.25 ) $ (0.07 ) $ (0.01 ) Net (loss) income attributable to the Partnerships common unitholders $ (0.09 ) $  $ 0.17 $ 0.47 Weighted average common units outstanding - basic and diluted 128,729 135,622 152,997 153,107 (1) Certain reclassifications have been made to 2013 and 2012 quarterly amounts to conform to the full year 2013 presentation, primarily related to treatment of discontinued operations.
Note 15 Business Segments We have two reportable segments: conventional real estate operations and affordable real estate operations. Our conventional real estate operations consist of market-rate apartment communities with rents paid by the residents and included 162 apartment communities with 50,486 apartment homes at December31, 2013 .  Our affordable real estate operations consisted of 74 apartment communities with 10,067 apartment homes at December31, 2013 , with rents that are generally paid, in whole or part, by a government agency.
Due to the diversity of our economic ownership interests in our apartment communities, our chief executive officer, who is our operating decision maker, uses proportionate property net operating income to asses the operating performance of our apartment communities.  Proportionate property net operating income reflects our share of rental and other property revenues less direct F-41 Table of Contents property operating expenses, including real estate taxes, for the consolidated and unconsolidated apartment communities that we manage.
The following tables present the revenues, net operating income (loss) and income (loss) from continuing operations of our conventional and affordable real estate operations segments on a proportionate basis for the years ended December31, 2013 , 2012 and 2011 (in thousands): Conventional Real Estate Operations Affordable Real Estate Operations Proportionate Adjustments (1) Corporate and Amounts Not Allocated to Segments Consolidated Year Ended December 31, 2013: Rental and other property revenues (2) $ 803,242 $ 98,713 $ 37,201 $ 75 $ 939,231 Tax credit and asset management revenues    34,822 34,822 Total revenues 803,242 98,713 37,201 34,897 974,053 Property operating expenses (2) 285,062 39,717 13,406 37,487 375,672 Investment management expenses    4,341 4,341 Depreciation and amortization (2)    291,910 291,910 General and administrative expenses    45,708 45,708 Other expenses, net    7,403 7,403 Total operating expenses 285,062 39,717 13,406 386,849 725,034 Operating income (loss) 518,180 58,996 23,795 (351,952 ) 249,019 Other items included in continuing operations    (214,423 ) (214,423 ) Income (loss) from continuing operations $ 518,180 $ 58,996 $ 23,795 $ (566,375 ) $ 34,596 Conventional Real Estate Operations Affordable Real Estate Operations Proportionate Adjustments (1) Corporate and Amounts Not Allocated to Segments Consolidated Year Ended December 31, 2012: Rental and other property revenues (2) $ 761,876 $ 97,135 $ 57,251 $ 480 $ 916,742 Tax credit and asset management revenues    41,769 41,769 Total revenues 761,876 97,135 57,251 42,249 958,511 Property operating expenses (2) 274,414 38,932 23,562 37,439 374,347 Investment management expenses    12,008 12,008 Depreciation and amortization (2)    325,173 325,173 Provision for real estate impairment losses (2)    6,235 6,235 General and administrative expenses    49,602 49,602 Other expenses, net    12,130 12,130 Total operating expenses 274,414 38,932 23,562 442,587 779,495 Operating income (loss) 487,462 58,203 33,689 (400,338 ) 179,016 Other items included in continuing operations    (197,772 ) (197,772 ) Income (loss) from continuing operations $ 487,462 $ 58,203 $ 33,689 $ (598,110 ) $ (18,756 ) F-42 Table of Contents Conventional Real Estate Operations Affordable Real Estate Operations Proportionate Adjustments (1) Corporate and Amounts Not Allocated to Segments Consolidated Year Ended December 31, 2011: Rental and other property revenues (2) $ 724,866 $ 94,007 $ 55,627 $ 1,194 $ 875,694 Tax credit and asset management revenues    38,661 38,661 Total revenues 724,866 94,007 55,627 39,855 914,355 Property operating expenses (2) 263,969 37,096 22,140 52,959 376,164 Investment management expenses    10,459 10,459 Depreciation and amortization (2)    323,233 323,233 General and administrative expenses    50,906 50,906 Other expenses, net    18,302 18,302 Total operating expenses 263,969 37,096 22,140 455,859 779,064 Operating income (loss) 460,897 56,911 33,487 (416,004 ) 135,291 Other items included in continuing operations (3)    (271,528 ) (271,528 ) Income (loss) from continuing operations $ 460,897 $ 56,911 $ 33,487 $ (687,532 ) $ (136,237 ) (1) Represents adjustments for the noncontrolling interests in consolidated real estate partnerships share of the results of our consolidated apartment communities and the results of consolidated apartment communities that we do not manage, which are excluded from our measurement of segment performance but included in the related consolidated amounts, and our share of the results of operations of our unconsolidated real estate partnerships that we manage, which are included in our measurement of segment performance but excluded from the related consolidated amounts.
(2) Proportionate property net operating income, our key measurement of segment profit or loss, excludes property management revenues (which are included in rental and other property revenues), property management expenses and casualty gains and losses (which are included in property operating expenses), depreciation and amortization and provision for real estate impairment losses.  Accordingly, we do not allocate these amounts to our segments.
(3) In addition to the other items included in continuing operations presented in the table for the year ending December31, 2011 , the Aimco Operating Partnership recognized $1.3 million of interest income on its notes receivable from Aimco.  These notes were repaid by Aimco during the three months ended December31, 2011 .
The assets of our reportable segments on a proportionate basis, together with the proportionate adjustments to reconcile these amounts to the consolidated assets of our segments, and the consolidated assets not allocated to our segments are as follows (in thousands): 2013 2012 Conventional $ 4,793,472 $ 4,837,236 Affordable 382,091 466,678 Proportionate adjustments (1) 428,376 634,858 Corporate and other assets 475,474 462,608 Total consolidated assets $ 6,079,413 $ 6,401,380 (1) Represents adjustments for the noncontrolling interests in consolidated real estate partnerships share of the assets of our consolidated apartment communities, which are excluded from our measurement of segment financial condition, and our share of the assets of our unconsolidated real estate partnerships, which are included in our measure of segment financial condition.
For the years ended December31, 2013 , 2012 and 2011 , capital additions related to our conventional segment totaled $365.3 million , $252.3 million and $191.6 million , respectively, and capital additions related to our affordable segment totaled $10.7 million , $19.8 million and $15.6 million , respectively.
F-43 Table of Contents APARTMENT INVESTMENT AND MANAGEMENT COMPANY AIMCO PROPERTIES, L.P.
SCHEDULE III: REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION December 31, 2013 (In Thousands Except Apartment Home Data) (2) (3) (1) Initial Cost Cost Capitalized December 31, 2013 Apartment Date Year Apartment Buildings and Subsequent to Buildings and (4) Accumulated Total Cost Apartment Community Name Type Consolidated Location Built Homes Land Improvements Consolidation Land Improvements Total Depreciation (AD) Net of AD Encumbrances Conventional Apartment Communities: 100 Forest Place High Rise Dec-97 Oak Park, IL 1987 234 $ 2,664 $ 18,815 $ 6,494 $ 2,664 $ 25,309 $ 27,973 $ (11,077 ) $ 16,896 $ 25,955 118-122 West 23rd Street High Rise Jun-12 New York, NY 1987 42 14,985 23,459 3,942 14,985 27,401 42,386 (1,366 ) 41,020 19,493 1582 First Avenue High Rise Mar-05 New York, NY 1900 17 4,281 752 318 4,281 1,070 5,351 (452 ) 4,899 2,520 173 E. 90th Street High Rise May-04 New York, NY 1910 72 12,066 4,535 2,442 12,067 6,976 19,043 (2,546 ) 16,497 7,435 182-188 Columbus Avenue Mid Rise Feb-07 New York,  NY 1910 32 19,123 3,300 2,608 19,123 5,908 25,031 (2,075 ) 22,956 13,471 204-206 West 133rd Street Mid Rise Jun-07 New York,  NY 1910 44 4,352 1,450 1,556 4,352 3,006 7,358 (957 ) 6,401 2,963 2232-2240 Seventh Avenue Mid Rise Jun-07 New York,  NY 1910 24 3,366 3,785 1,266 3,366 5,051 8,417 (1,423 ) 6,994 2,972 2247-2253 Seventh Avenue Mid Rise Jun-07 New York,  NY 1910 35 7,356 3,335 1,649 7,356 4,984 12,340 (1,768 ) 10,572 5,483 2252-2258 Seventh Avenue Mid Rise Jun-07 New York,  NY 1910 35 4,318 4,504 1,706 4,318 6,210 10,528 (1,810 ) 8,718 5,125 2300-2310 Seventh Avenue Mid Rise Jun-07 New York,  NY 1910 63 10,417 6,964 4,642 10,417 11,606 22,023 (4,017 ) 18,006 9,362 236-238 East 88th Street High Rise Jan-04 New York, NY 1900 43 8,820 2,914 2,097 8,820 5,011 13,831 (1,737 ) 12,094 12,000 237-239 Ninth Avenue High Rise Mar-05 New York, NY 1900 36 8,495 1,866 1,449 8,494 3,316 11,810 (1,131 ) 10,679 6,155 240 West 73rd Street, LLC High Rise Sep-04 New York, NY 1900 200 68,109 12,140 8,646 68,109 20,786 88,895 (6,290 ) 82,605 27,704 2484 Seventh Avenue Mid Rise Jun-07 New York,  NY 1921 23 2,601 1,726 772 2,601 2,498 5,099 (652 ) 4,447 2,472 2900 on First Apartments Mid Rise Oct-08 Seattle, WA 1989 135 19,070 17,518 17,374 19,071 34,891 53,962 (5,106 ) 48,856 19,337 306 East 89th Street High Rise Jul-04 New York, NY 1930 20 2,680 1,006 418 2,681 1,423 4,104 (523 ) 3,581 2,055 311 & 313 East 73rd Street Mid Rise Mar-03 New York, NY 1904 34 5,678 1,609 543 5,678 2,152 7,830 (1,282 ) 6,548 2,512 322-324 East 61st Street High Rise Mar-05 New York, NY 1900 40 6,372 2,224 1,229 6,372 3,453 9,825 (1,368 ) 8,457 3,780 3400 Avenue of the Arts Mid Rise Mar-02 Costa Mesa, CA 1987 770 57,241 65,506 72,777 57,240 138,284 195,524 (71,918 ) 123,606 113,022 452 East 78th Street High Rise Jan-04 New York, NY 1900 12 1,982 608 458 1,982 1,066 3,048 (416 ) 2,632 1,456 464-466 Amsterdam & 200-210 W. 83rd Street Mid Rise Feb-07 New York,  NY 1910 72 25,553 7,101 4,506 25,552 11,608 37,160 (3,634 ) 33,526 19,679 510 East 88th Street High Rise Jan-04 New York, NY 1900 20 3,163 1,002 387 3,163 1,389 4,552 (457 ) 4,095 2,396 514-516 East 88th Street High Rise Mar-05 New York, NY 1900 36 6,282 2,168 775 6,282 2,943 9,225 (1,170 ) 8,055 4,097 707 Leahy Garden Apr-07 Redwood City,  CA 1973 110 15,444 7,909 4,936 15,444 12,845 28,289 (4,621 ) 23,668 9,601 865 Bellevue Garden Jul-00 Nashville, TN 1972 326 3,562 12,037 28,070 3,562 40,107 43,669 (23,536 ) 20,133 18,154 Arbours Of Hermitage, The Garden Jul-00 Hermitage, TN 1972 350 3,217 12,023 8,376 3,217 20,399 23,616 (10,525 ) 13,091 9,398 Auburn Glen (5) Garden Dec-06 Jacksonville,  FL 1974 251 7,670 8,191 4,075 7,670 6,562 14,232 (4,201 ) 10,031 9,271 Bank Lofts High Rise Apr-01 Denver, CO 1920 117 3,525 9,045 2,173 3,525 11,218 14,743 (5,537 ) 9,206 11,601 Bay Parc Plaza High Rise Sep-04 Miami, FL 2000 471 22,680 41,847 6,979 22,680 48,826 71,506 (12,557 ) 58,949 45,252 Bay Ridge at Nashua Garden Jan-03 Nashua, NH 1984 412 3,262 40,713 5,719 3,262 46,432 49,694 (15,956 ) 33,738 30,740 Bayberry Hill Estates Garden Aug-02 Framingham, MA 1971 424 19,944 35,945 12,775 19,944 48,720 68,664 (19,082 ) 49,582 33,252 Bluffs at Pacifica, The Garden Oct-06 Pacifica, CA 1963 64 8,108 4,132 13,692 8,108 17,824 25,932 (7,878 ) 18,054 5,963 Boston Lofts High Rise Apr-01 Denver, CO 1/1/1890 158 3,446 20,589 6,072 3,447 26,660 30,107 (12,087 ) 18,020 16,948 Boulder Creek Garden Jul-94 Boulder, CO 1973 221 754 7,730 18,580 755 26,309 27,064 (14,011 ) 13,053 8,771 Broadcast Center Garden Mar-02 Los Angeles, CA 1990 279 29,407 41,244 27,142 29,407 68,386 97,793 (31,926 ) 65,867 55,083 Broadway Lofts High Rise Sep-12 San Diego, CA 1909 84 5,367 14,442 760 5,367 15,202 20,569 (724 ) 19,845 10,194 Buena Vista Mid Rise Jan-06 Pasadena, CA 1973 92 9,693 6,818 1,499 9,693 8,317 18,010 (2,607 ) 15,403 10,033 Burke Shire Commons Garden Mar-01 Burke, VA 1986 360 4,867 23,617 8,707 4,867 32,324 37,191 (13,704 ) 23,487 42,239 Calhoun Beach Club High Rise Dec-98 Minneapolis, MN 1928 332 11,708 73,334 50,873 11,708 124,207 135,915 (58,397 ) 77,518 46,590 Canterbury Green Garden Dec-99 Fort Wayne, IN 1970 1,988 13,659 73,115 24,041 13,659 97,156 110,815 (54,409 ) 56,406 50,629 Canyon Terrace Garden Mar-02 Saugus, CA 1984 130 7,508 6,601 6,160 7,508 12,761 20,269 (6,305 ) 13,964 10,091 F-44 Table of Contents (2) (3) (1) Initial Cost Cost Capitalized December 31, 2013 Apartment Date Year Apartment Buildings and Subsequent to Buildings and (4) Accumulated Total Cost Apartment Community Name Type Consolidated Location Built Homes Land Improvements Consolidation Land Improvements Total Depreciation (AD) Net of AD Encumbrances Casa del Mar at Baymeadows Garden Oct-06 Jacksonville, FL 1984 144 5,039 10,562 2,902 5,039 13,464 18,503 (4,092 ) 14,411 8,820 Cedar Rim Garden Apr-00 Newcastle, WA 1980 104 761 5,218 17,029 761 22,247 23,008 (17,854 ) 5,154 7,479 Center Square High Rise Oct-99 Doylestown, PA 1975 350 582 4,190 3,022 582 7,212 7,794 (3,605 ) 4,189 12,910 Charlesbank Apartment Homes Mid Rise Sep-13 Watertown, MA 2012 44 3,399 11,726 23 3,399 11,749 15,148 (114 ) 15,034 8,500 Chestnut Hall High Rise Oct-06 Philadelphia,  PA 1923 315 12,338 14,299 6,812 12,338 21,111 33,449 (10,199 ) 23,250 17,238 Chestnut Hill Village Garden Apr-00 Philadelphia, PA 1963 821 6,469 49,316 48,831 6,469 98,147 104,616 (57,443 ) 47,173 56,368 Chimneys of Cradle Rock Garden Jun-04 Columbia, MD 1979 198 2,040 8,108 1,243 2,040 9,351 11,391 (3,382 ) 8,009 16,156 Colony at Kenilworth Garden Oct-99 Towson, MD 1966 383 2,403 18,799 15,903 2,403 34,702 37,105 (21,537 ) 15,568 23,048 Columbus Avenue Mid Rise Sep-03 New York, NY 1/1/1880 59 35,527 9,450 4,598 35,527 14,048 49,575 (7,973 ) 41,602 27,843 Creekside Garden Jan-00 Denver, CO 1974 328 3,189 12,698 5,479 3,189 18,177 21,366 (10,358 ) 11,008 12,424 Crescent at West Hollywood, The Mid Rise Mar-02 West Hollywood, CA 1985 130 15,765 10,215 14,427 15,765 24,642 40,407 (16,813 ) 23,594 23,694 Elm Creek Mid Rise Dec-97 Elmhurst, IL 1987 400 5,910 30,830 30,750 5,910 61,580 67,490 (26,139 ) 41,351 41,472 Evanston Place High Rise Dec-97 Evanston, IL 1990 189 3,232 25,546 6,229 3,232 31,775 35,007 (14,147 ) 20,860 20,628 Farmingdale Mid Rise Oct-00 Darien, IL 1975 240 11,763 15,174 10,119 11,763 25,293 37,056 (13,304 ) 23,752 16,027 Flamingo Towers High Rise Sep-97 Miami Beach,  FL 1960 1,161 32,239 39,410 240,961 32,239 280,371 312,610 (116,869 ) 195,741 112,970 Four Quarters Habitat Garden Jan-06 Miami, FL 1976 336 2,379 17,199 18,160 2,379 35,359 37,738 (19,850 ) 17,888 8,644 Foxchase Garden Dec-97 Alexandria, VA 1940 2,113 15,496 96,062 32,317 15,496 128,379 143,875 (64,462 ) 79,413 246,181 Georgetown Garden Aug-02 Framingham, MA 1964 207 12,351 13,168 2,038 12,351 15,206 27,557 (5,775 ) 21,782 9,692 Granada Mid Rise Aug-02 Framingham, MA 1958 72 4,577 4,057 867 4,577 4,924 9,501 (2,449 ) 7,052 3,246 Grand Pointe Garden Dec-99 Columbia, MD 1972 325 2,714 16,771 5,401 2,715 22,171 24,886 (10,457 ) 14,429 15,695 Greens Garden Jul-94 Chandler, AZ 2000 324 2,303 713 28,836 2,303 29,549 31,852 (17,513 ) 14,339 9,377 Heritage Park Escondido Garden Oct-00 Escondido, CA 1986 196 1,055 7,565 1,495 1,055 9,060 10,115 (5,391 ) 4,724 7,236 Heritage Park Livermore Garden Oct-00 Livermore, CA 1988 167 1,039 9,170 1,382 1,039 10,552 11,591 (5,920 ) 5,671 7,468 Heritage Village Anaheim Garden Oct-00 Anaheim, CA 1986 196 1,832 8,541 1,513 1,832 10,054 11,886 (5,867 ) 6,019 8,781 Hidden Cove Garden Jul-98 Escondido, CA 1983 334 3,043 17,616 7,508 3,043 25,124 28,167 (12,839 ) 15,328 29,073 Hidden Cove II Garden Jul-07 Escondido, CA 1986 118 12,849 6,530 6,257 12,849 12,787 25,636 (6,137 ) 19,499 10,864 Hillcreste Garden Mar-02 Century City, CA 1989 315 35,862 47,216 24,470 35,862 71,686 107,548 (34,664 ) 72,884 70,250 Hillmeade Garden Nov-94 Nashville, TN 1986 288 2,872 16,070 10,594 2,872 26,664 29,536 (14,712 ) 14,824 17,073 Horizons West Apartments Mid Rise Dec-06 Pacifica,  CA 1970 78 8,887 6,377 1,868 8,887 8,245 17,132 (3,011 ) 14,121 4,807 Hunt Club Garden Sep-00 Gaithersburg, MD 1986 336 17,859 13,149 8,445 17,859 21,594 39,453 (9,435 ) 30,018  Hunter's Chase Garden Jan-01 Midlothian, VA 1985 320 7,935 7,915 3,113 7,935 11,028 18,963 (4,729 ) 14,234 15,350 Hunters Glen Garden Oct-99 Plainsboro, NJ 1976 896 8,778 47,259 42,658 8,779 89,916 98,695 (63,437 ) 35,258 64,358 Hyde Park Tower High Rise Oct-04 Chicago, IL 1990 155 4,731 14,927 3,373 4,731 18,300 23,031 (4,815 ) 18,216 14,028 Indian Oaks Garden Mar-02 Simi Valley, CA 1986 254 24,523 15,801 5,200 24,523 21,001 45,524 (8,904 ) 36,620 31,184 Island Club Garden Oct-00 Oceanside, CA 1986 592 18,027 28,654 14,010 18,027 42,664 60,691 (23,271 ) 37,420 61,169 Key Towers High Rise Apr-01 Alexandria, VA 1964 140 1,526 7,050 6,262 1,526 13,312 14,838 (8,036 ) 6,802 10,287 Lakeside Garden Oct-99 Lisle, IL 1972 568 5,840 27,937 32,029 5,840 59,966 65,806 (38,230 ) 27,576 27,808 Lakeside at Vinings Mountain Garden Jan-00 Atlanta, GA 1983 220 2,111 11,862 15,823 2,111 27,685 29,796 (18,631 ) 11,165 14,459 Latrobe High Rise Jan-03 Washington, DC 1980 175 3,459 9,103 16,140 3,459 25,243 28,702 (17,149 ) 11,553 29,452 Lazy Hollow Garden Apr-05 Columbia, MD 1979 178 2,429 12,181 326 2,430 12,506 14,936 (6,132 ) 8,804 13,332 Lincoln Place (5) Garden Oct-04 Venice, CA 1951 696 128,332 10,439 242,465 44,197 252,904 297,101 (3,581 ) 293,520 134,869 Lodge at Chattahoochee, The Garden Oct-99 Sandy Springs, GA 1970 312 2,335 16,370 23,999 2,335 40,369 42,704 (25,788 ) 16,916 21,201 Los Arboles Garden Sep-97 Chandler, AZ 1986 232 1,662 9,504 2,847 1,662 12,351 14,013 (6,212 ) 7,801 7,687 Malibu Canyon Garden Mar-02 Calabasas, CA 1986 698 69,834 53,438 32,554 69,834 85,992 155,826 (42,448 ) 113,378 90,240 Maple Bay Garden Dec-99 Virginia Beach, VA 1971 414 2,597 16,141 29,362 2,598 45,502 48,100 (29,535 ) 18,565 31,143 Mariners Cove Garden Mar-02 San Diego, CA 1984 500  66,861 7,545  74,406 74,406 (27,789 ) 46,617 1,904 Meadow Creek Garden Jul-94 Boulder, CO 1968 332 1,435 24,533 5,717 1,435 30,250 31,685 (15,049 ) 16,636 22,643 Merrill House High Rise Jan-00 Falls Church, VA 1964 159 1,836 10,831 6,790 1,836 17,621 19,457 (7,737 ) 11,720 18,514 F-45 Table of Contents (2) (3) (1) Initial Cost Cost Capitalized December 31, 2013 Apartment Date Year Apartment Buildings and Subsequent to Buildings and (4) Accumulated Total Cost Apartment Community Name Type Consolidated Location Built Homes Land Improvements Consolidation Land Improvements Total Depreciation (AD) Net of AD Encumbrances Monterey Grove Garden Jun-08 San Jose, CA 1999 224 34,325 21,939 3,318 34,325 25,257 59,582 (6,919 ) 52,663 33,438 Oak Park Village Garden Oct-00 Lansing, MI 1972 618 10,048 16,771 6,025 10,048 22,796 32,844 (13,482 ) 19,362  Ocean House on Prospect Mid Rise Apr-13 La Jolla, CA 1970 60 12,528 18,805 455 12,528 19,260 31,788 (480 ) 31,308 14,583 Pacific Bay Vistas (5) Garden Mar-01 San Bruno, CA 1987 308 28,694 62,460 23,061 22,994 85,520 108,514 (2,482 ) 106,032 58,108 Pacifica Park Garden Jul-06 Pacifica, CA 1977 104 12,970 6,579 3,452 12,970 10,031 23,001 (4,280 ) 18,721 12,135 Palazzo at Park La Brea, The Mid Rise Feb-04 Los Angeles, CA 2002 521 48,362 125,464 21,929 48,362 147,393 195,755 (52,213 ) 143,542 117,943 Palazzo East at Park La Brea, The Mid Rise Mar-05 Los Angeles, CA 2005 611 72,578 136,503 13,319 72,578 149,822 222,400 (50,189 ) 172,211 122,992 Paradise Palms Garden Jul-94 Phoenix, AZ 1985 130 647 3,516 6,452 647 9,968 10,615 (6,693 ) 3,922 6,026 Park & 12th Mid Rise Jul-13 Atlanta, GA 2012 30 2,793 6,662 14 2,793 6,676 9,469 (103 ) 9,366 6,185 Park Towne Place High Rise Apr-00 Philadelphia, PA 1959 959 10,472 47,301 126,690 10,472 173,991 184,463 (44,061 ) 140,402  Parktown Townhouses Garden Oct-99 Deer Park, TX 1968 309 2,572 12,051 13,434 2,572 25,485 28,057 (12,418 ) 15,639 10,180 Parkway Garden Mar-00 Willamsburg, VA 1971 148 386 2,834 3,055 386 5,889 6,275 (3,478 ) 2,797 8,642 Pathfinder Village Garden Jan-06 Fremont, CA 1973 246 19,595 14,838 9,664 19,595 24,502 44,097 (8,827 ) 35,270 18,345 Peachtree Park Garden Jan-96 Atlanta, GA 1969 303 4,684 11,713 12,566 4,683 24,280 28,963 (12,092 ) 16,871 8,155 Peak at Vinings Mountain, The Garden Jan-00 Atlanta, GA 1980 280 2,651 13,660 18,412 2,651 32,072 34,723 (21,784 ) 12,939 15,276 Peakview Place Garden Jan-00 Englewood, CO 1975 296 3,442 18,734 985 3,443 19,718 23,161 (12,555 ) 10,606 12,066 Peppertree Garden Mar-02 Cypress, CA 1971 136 8,030 5,225 2,393 8,030 7,618 15,648 (3,733 ) 11,915 12,654 Pine Lake Terrace Garden Mar-02 Garden Grove, CA 1971 111 4,124 6,035 2,216 4,125 8,250 12,375 (3,597 ) 8,778 9,117 Plantation Gardens Garden Oct-99 Plantation ,FL 1971 372 3,773 19,443 18,613 3,773 38,056 41,829 (16,587 ) 25,242 22,637 Post Ridge Garden Jul-00 Nashville, TN 1972 150 1,883 6,712 4,587 1,883 11,299 13,182 (6,609 ) 6,573 5,683 Preserve at Marin Mid Rise Aug-11 Corte Madera, CA 1964 126 18,179 30,132 38,133 18,179 68,265 86,444  86,444 39,795 Ramblewood Garden Dec-99 Wyoming, MI 1973 1,707 8,661 61,082 10,060 8,661 71,142 79,803 (25,852 ) 53,951 33,314 Ravensworth Towers High Rise Jun-04 Annandale, VA 1974 219 3,455 17,157 2,566 3,455 19,723 23,178 (10,593 ) 12,585 22,352 Reflections Garden Sep-00 Virginia Beach, VA 1987 480 15,988 13,684 5,004 15,988 18,688 34,676 (9,086 ) 25,590 30,374 Remington at Ponte Vedra Lakes Garden Dec-06 Ponte Vedra Beach,  FL 1986 344 18,795 18,650 4,810 18,795 23,460 42,255 (7,819 ) 34,436 23,169 River Club,The Garden Apr-05 Edgewater, NJ 1998 266 30,579 30,638 3,051 30,579 33,689 64,268 (11,350 ) 52,918 33,049 Riverloft High Rise Oct-99 Philadelphia, PA 1910 184 2,120 11,287 28,203 2,120 39,490 41,610 (15,355 ) 26,255 15,272 Riverside High Rise Apr-00 Alexandria ,VA 1973 1,222 10,493 65,474 86,890 10,492 152,365 162,857 (102,559 ) 60,298 117,689 Rosewood Garden Mar-02 Camarillo, CA 1976 152 12,430 8,060 3,806 12,430 11,866 24,296 (4,720 ) 19,576 17,230 Royal Crest Estates Garden Aug-02 Warwick, RI 1972 492 22,433 24,095 5,316 22,433 29,411 51,844 (15,768 ) 36,076 35,878 Royal Crest Estates Garden Aug-02 Nashua, NH 1970 902 68,230 45,562 9,315 68,231 54,876 123,107 (32,003 ) 91,104 39,468 Royal Crest Estates Garden Aug-02 Marlborough, MA 1970 473 25,178 28,786 6,772 25,178 35,558 60,736 (17,052 ) 43,684 33,393 Royal Crest Estates Garden Aug-02 North Andover, MA 1970 588 51,292 36,807 17,229 51,292 54,036 105,328 (22,860 ) 82,468 58,306 Runaway Bay Garden Oct-00 Lantana, FL 1987 404 5,935 16,052 8,712 5,934 24,765 30,699 (11,783 ) 18,916 20,647 San Melia Garden Mar-12 Phoenix, AZ 1998 488 16,631 55,679 5,018 16,631 60,697 77,328 (3,999 ) 73,329 31,570 Savannah Trace Garden Mar-01 Shaumburg, IL 1986 368 13,960 20,732 4,112 13,960 24,844 38,804 (11,433 ) 27,371 24,985 Scotchollow Garden Jan-06 San Mateo, CA 1971 418 49,475 17,756 11,075 49,474 28,832 78,306 (11,197 ) 67,109 46,867 Shenandoah Crossing Garden Sep-00 Fairfax, VA 1984 640 18,200 57,198 16,755 18,200 73,953 92,153 (39,732 ) 52,421 64,844 Signal Pointe Garden Oct-99 Winter Park, FL 1969 368 2,392 11,358 26,388 2,392 37,746 40,138 (25,480 ) 14,658 17,884 Signature Point Garden Nov-96 League City, TX 1994 304 2,810 17,579 2,795 2,810 20,374 23,184 (8,635 ) 14,549 8,329 Springwoods at Lake Ridge Garden Jul-02 Woodbridge, VA 1984 180 5,587 7,284 3,292 5,587 10,576 16,163 (2,868 ) 13,295 13,406 Spyglass at Cedar Cove Garden Sep-00 Lexington Park, MD 1985 152 3,241 5,094 2,858 3,241 7,952 11,193 (4,339 ) 6,854 9,906 Stafford High Rise Oct-02 Baltimore, MD 1/1/1889 96 562 4,033 4,029 562 8,062 8,624 (5,261 ) 3,363 4,053 Steeplechase Garden Sep-00 Largo, MD 1986 240 3,675 16,111 4,954 3,675 21,065 24,740 (9,981 ) 14,759  Sterling Apartment Homes, The Garden Oct-99 Philadelphia, PA 1961 537 8,871 55,365 30,746 8,871 86,111 94,982 (44,305 ) 50,677 72,940 Stone Creek Club Garden Sep-00 Germantown, MD 1984 240 13,593 9,347 6,216 13,593 15,563 29,156 (8,445 ) 20,711  Tamarac Village Garden Apr-00 Denver, CO 1979 564 4,224 23,491 8,856 4,223 32,348 36,571 (19,640 ) 16,931 17,596 Towers Of Westchester Park, The High Rise Jan-06 College Park, MD 1972 303 15,198 22,029 8,846 15,198 30,875 46,073 (9,871 ) 36,202 25,955 F-46 Table of Contents (2) (3) (1) Initial Cost Cost Capitalized December 31, 2013 Apartment Date Year Apartment Buildings and Subsequent to Buildings and (4) Accumulated Total Cost Apartment Community Name Type Consolidated Location Built Homes Land Improvements Consolidation Land Improvements Total Depreciation (AD) Net of AD Encumbrances Township At Highlands Town Home Nov-96 Centennial, CO 1985 161 1,536 9,773 6,406 1,536 16,179 17,715 (9,181 ) 8,534 15,443 Twin Lake Towers High Rise Oct-99 Westmont, IL 1969 399 3,268 18,763 38,188 3,268 56,951 60,219 (39,046 ) 21,173 32,241 Vantage Pointe Mid Rise Aug-02 Swampscott, MA 1987 96 4,748 10,089 984 4,749 11,072 15,821 (3,667 ) 12,154 5,610 Views at Vinings Mountain, The Garden Jan-06 Atlanta, GA 1983 180 610 5,026 12,136 610 17,162 17,772 (14,534 ) 3,238  Villa Del Sol Garden Mar-02 Norwalk, CA 1972 120 7,476 4,861 2,465 7,476 7,326 14,802 (3,799 ) 11,003 11,617 Village in the Woods Garden Jan-00 Cypress, TX 1983 530 3,463 15,787 10,256 3,463 26,043 29,506 (16,217 ) 13,289 18,552 Village of Pennbrook Garden Oct-98 Levittown, PA 1969 722 10,240 38,222 13,191 10,240 51,413 61,653 (28,814 ) 32,839 45,689 Villages of Baymeadows Garden Oct-99 Jacksonville, FL 1972 904 4,860 33,956 54,761 4,860 88,717 93,577 (56,918 ) 36,659  Villas at Park La Brea, The Garden Mar-02 Los Angeles, CA 2002 250 8,630 48,871 4,909 8,630 53,780 62,410 (21,127 ) 41,283 23,480 Vista Del Lagos Garden Dec-97 Chandler, AZ 1986 200 804 4,951 3,334 804 8,285 9,089 (3,657 ) 5,432 11,201 Waterford Village Garden Aug-02 Bridgewater, MA 1971 588 29,110 28,101 3,145 29,110 31,246 60,356 (19,908 ) 40,448 38,596 Waterways Village Garden Jun-97 Aventura, FL 1994 180 4,504 11,064 4,413 4,504 15,477 19,981 (7,725 ) 12,256 3,983 Waverly Apartments Garden Aug-08 Brighton, MA 1970 103 7,920 11,347 1,808 7,920 13,155 21,075 (3,211 ) 17,864 12,664 Wexford Village Garden Aug-02 Worcester, MA 1974 264 6,349 17,939 1,165 6,349 19,104 25,453 (9,139 ) 16,314 11,036 Willow Bend Garden May-98 Rolling Meadows, IL 1969 328 2,717 15,437 25,531 2,717 40,968 43,685 (27,326 ) 16,359 18,715 Windrift Garden Mar-01 Oceanside, CA 1987 404 24,960 17,590 19,610 24,960 37,200 62,160 (24,444 ) 37,716 42,602 Windsor Crossing Garden Mar-00 Newport News, VA 1978 156 131 2,110 2,944 131 5,054 5,185 (2,680 ) 2,505  Windsor Park Garden Mar-01 Woodbridge, VA 1987 220 4,279 15,970 5,040 4,279 21,010 25,289 (8,724 ) 16,565 18,580 Woods Of Williamsburg Garden Jan-06 Williamsburg, VA 1976 125 798 3,657 1,305 798 4,962 5,760 (3,776 ) 1,984  Yacht Club at Brickell High Rise Dec-03 Miami, FL 1998 357 31,362 32,214 8,198 31,363 40,411 71,774 (11,061 ) 60,713 49,106 Yorktown Apartments High Rise Dec-99 Lombard, IL 1971 364 3,055 18,162 32,723 3,055 50,885 53,940 (20,295 ) 33,645 31,516 Total Conventional Apartment Communities 50,344 1,923,523 3,215,827 2,327,334 1,833,694 5,537,450 7,371,144 (2,424,839 ) 4,946,305 3,941,913 Affordable Apartment Communities: All Hallows Garden Jan-06 San Francisco, CA 1976 157 1,338 29,770 20,865 1,338 50,635 51,973 (25,568 ) 26,405 23,289 Arvada House High Rise Nov-04 Arvada, CO 1977 88 405 3,314 2,310 405 5,624 6,029 (2,186 ) 3,843 4,000 Bayview Garden Jun-05 San Francisco, CA 1976 146 582 15,265 17,474 582 32,739 33,321 (18,342 ) 14,979 11,993 Beacon Hill High Rise Mar-02 Hillsdale, MI 1980 198 1,094 7,044 6,687 1,093 13,732 14,825 (5,802 ) 9,023 6,995 Biltmore Towers High Rise Mar-02 Dayton, OH 1980 230 1,814 6,411 13,777 1,813 20,189 22,002 (12,276 ) 9,726 10,401 Butternut Creek Mid Rise Jan-06 Charlotte, MI 1980 100 505 3,617 3,847 505 7,464 7,969 (5,299 ) 2,670 4,051 Carriage House Mid Rise Dec-06 Petersburg,  VA 1885-01-01 118 716 2,886 3,789 716 6,675 7,391 (3,321 ) 4,070 1,892 City Line Garden Mar-02 Newport News, VA 1976 200 500 2,014 7,686 500 9,700 10,200 (4,431 ) 5,769 4,526 Copperwood I Apartments Garden Apr-06 The Woodlands, TX 1980 150 383 8,373 5,529 383 13,902 14,285 (11,949 ) 2,336 5,321 Copperwood II Apartments Garden Oct-05 The Woodlands, TX 1981 150 459 5,553 3,514 459 9,067 9,526 (5,253 ) 4,273 5,490 Country Club Heights Garden Mar-04 Quincy, IL 1976 200 676 5,715 4,957 675 10,673 11,348 (5,276 ) 6,072 6,095 Crevenna Oaks Town Home Jan-06 Burke, VA 1979 50 355 4,848 368 355 5,216 5,571 (2,636 ) 2,935 2,803 Fairwood Garden Jan-06 Carmichael, CA 1979 86 177 5,264 267 176 5,532 5,708 (3,828 ) 1,880 1,944 Fountain Place Mid Rise Jan-06 Connersville, IN 1980 102 378 2,091 3,038 378 5,129 5,507 (1,419 ) 4,088 1,007 Friendset Apartments High Rise Jan-06 Brooklyn, NY 1979 259 550 16,304 1,540 550 17,844 18,394 (10,087 ) 8,307 13,099 Hopkins Village Mid Rise Sep-03 Baltimore, MD 1979 165 549 5,973 3,613 549 9,586 10,135 (3,455 ) 6,680 9,100 Hudson Gardens Garden Mar-02 Pasadena, CA 1983 41 914 1,548 1,287 914 2,835 3,749 (941 ) 2,808 3,096 Ingram Square Garden Jan-06 San Antonio, TX 1980 120 800 3,136 5,769 800 8,905 9,705 (4,623 ) 5,082 3,493 Kirkwood House High Rise Sep-04 Baltimore, MD 1979 261 1,337 9,358 8,585 1,338 17,942 19,280 (6,655 ) 12,625 16,000 La Salle Garden Oct-00 San Francisco, CA 1976 145 1,866 19,567 17,716 1,866 37,283 39,149 (22,769 ) 16,380 18,053 La Vista Garden Jan-06 Concord, CA 1981 75 581 4,449 4,296 581 8,745 9,326 (2,805 ) 6,521 5,155 Loring Towers High Rise Oct-02 Minneapolis,  MN 1975 230 886 7,445 8,262 886 15,707 16,593 (6,631 ) 9,962 9,891 Loring Towers Apartments High Rise Sep-03 Salem, MA 1973 250 187 14,050 7,424 187 21,474 21,661 (7,857 ) 13,804 11,035 Montblanc Gardens Town Home Dec-03 Yauco, PR 1982 128 390 3,859 653 391 4,511 4,902 (2,697 ) 2,205  F-47 Table of Contents (2) (3) (1) Initial Cost Cost Capitalized December 31, 2013 Apartment Date Year Apartment Buildings and Subsequent to Buildings and (4) Accumulated Total Cost Apartment Community Name Type Consolidated Location Built Homes Land Improvements Consolidation Land Improvements Total Depreciation (AD) Net of AD Encumbrances New Baltimore Mid Rise Mar-02 New Baltimore,  MI 1980 101 896 2,360 5,211 896 7,571 8,467 (3,348 ) 5,119 2,067 Newberry Park Garden Dec-97 Chicago, IL 1995 84 1,380 7,632 445 1,380 8,077 9,457 (3,466 ) 5,991 6,946 Northpoint Garden Jan-00 Chicago, IL 1921 304 2,510 14,334 16,870 2,510 31,204 33,714 (21,833 ) 11,881 17,943 Panorama Park Garden Mar-02 Bakersfield, CA 1982 66 521 5,520 1,085 521 6,605 7,126 (2,848 ) 4,278 1,995 Parc Chateau I Garden Jan-06 Lithonia, GA 1973 86 592 1,442 326 592 1,768 2,360 (1,732 ) 628 99 Parc Chateau II Garden Jan-06 Lithonia, GA 1974 88 596 2,965 293 596 3,258 3,854 (2,555 ) 1,299 100 Park Place Mid Rise Jun-05 St Louis, MO 1977 242 705 6,327 10,151 705 16,478 17,183 (12,130 ) 5,053 8,918 Parkways, The Garden Jun-04 Chicago, IL 1925 446 3,426 23,257 20,458 3,427 43,714 47,141 (22,403 ) 24,738 18,797 Pavilion High Rise Mar-04 Philadelphia, PA 1976 296  15,415 1,905  17,320 17,320 (7,504 ) 9,816 7,475 Pleasant Hills Garden Apr-05 Austin, TX 1982 100 1,229 2,631 3,573 1,229 6,204 7,433 (3,061 ) 4,372 3,048 Plummer Village Mid Rise Mar-02 North Hills, CA 1983 75 666 2,647 1,685 667 4,331 4,998 (2,702 ) 2,296 2,433 Riverwoods High Rise Jan-06 Kankakee, IL 1983 125 598 4,931 3,539 598 8,470 9,068 (2,845 ) 6,223 3,565 Round Barn Manor Garden Mar-02 Champaign, IL 1979 156 810 5,134 5,946 810 11,080 11,890 (2,923 ) 8,967 4,592 San Jose Apartments Garden Sep-05 San Antonio,  TX 1970 220 234 5,770 11,859 234 17,629 17,863 (7,881 ) 9,982 4,540 San Juan Del Centro Mid Rise Sep-05 Boulder,  CO 1971 150 439 7,110 12,822 440 19,931 20,371 (8,834 ) 11,537 11,998 Shoreview Garden Oct-99 San Francisco, CA 1976 156 1,476 19,071 19,256 1,476 38,327 39,803 (24,049 ) 15,754 19,371 South Bay Villa Garden Mar-02 Los Angeles, CA 1981 80 1,352 2,770 3,850 1,352 6,620 7,972 (5,412 ) 2,560 2,867 St. George Villas Garden Jan-06 St. George, SC 1984 40 107 1,025 349 107 1,374 1,481 (1,062 ) 419 420 Stonegate Apts Mid Rise Jul-09 Indianapolis, IN 1920 52 122 1,920 486 122 2,406 2,528 (1,145 ) 1,383 1,852 Summit Oaks Town Home Jan-06 Burke, VA 1980 50 381 4,930 391 382 5,320 5,702 (2,534 ) 3,168 2,794 Tamarac Pines Apartments I Garden Nov-04 Woodlands, TX 1980 144 363 2,775 3,845 363 6,620 6,983 (3,358 ) 3,625 3,878 Tamarac Pines Apartments II Garden Nov-04 Woodlands, TX 1980 156 266 3,195 4,248 266 7,443 7,709 (3,830 ) 3,879 4,201 Terry Manor Mid Rise Oct-05 Los Angeles, CA 1977 170 1,997 5,848 6,754 1,997 12,602 14,599 (9,098 ) 5,501 6,517 Tompkins Terrace Garden Oct-02 Beacon, NY 1974 193 872 6,827 13,782 872 20,609 21,481 (7,952 ) 13,529 7,126 University Square High Rise Mar-05 Philadelphia, PA 1978 442 702 12,201 9,925 702 22,126 22,828 (8,836 ) 13,992 17,494 Van Nuys Apartments High Rise Mar-02 Los Angeles, CA 1981 299 3,576 21,226 21,634 3,576 42,860 46,436 (14,213 ) 32,223 24,714 Verdes Del Oriente Garden Jan-10 San Pedro, CA 1976 113 1,139 7,044 55 1,139 7,099 8,238 (3,151 ) 5,087 4,984 Villas of Mount Dora (5) Garden Jan-10 Mt. Dora, FL 1979 70 322 1,828 290 328 1,585 1,913 (995 ) 918 1,480 Wah Luck House High Rise Jan-06 Washington, DC 1982 153  7,772 704  8,476 8,476 (2,554 ) 5,922 6,823 Walnut Hills High Rise Jan-06 Cincinnati, OH 1983 198 826 5,608 5,505 826 11,113 11,939 (4,487 ) 7,452 5,445 Washington Square West Mid Rise Sep-04 Philadelphia, PA 1982 132 582 11,169 6,814 582 17,983 18,565 (12,831 ) 5,734 3,630 Whitefield Place Garden Apr-05 San Antonio, TX 1980 80 219 3,151 2,760 219 5,911 6,130 (3,150 ) 2,980 2,114 Winter Gardens High Rise Mar-04 St Louis, MO 1920 112 300 3,072 4,662 300 7,734 8,034 (2,268 ) 5,766 3,515 Woodland Hills Garden Oct-05 Jackson, MI 1980 125 320 3,875 4,569 321 8,443 8,764 (4,937 ) 3,827 3,402 Total Affordable Apartment Communities 8,953 46,966 420,636 359,300 46,975 779,400 826,375 (398,033 ) 428,342 395,872 Other (6)  689 15,873  689 15,873 16,562  16,562  Total 59,297 $ 1,971,178 $ 3,652,336 $ 2,686,634 $ 1,881,358 $ 6,332,723 $ 8,214,081 $ (2,822,872 ) $ 5,391,209 $ 4,337,785 (1) Date we acquired the apartment property or first consolidated the partnership which owns the apartment community.
(2) For 2008 and prior periods, costs to acquire the noncontrolling interests share of our consolidated real estate partnerships were capitalized as part of the initial cost.
(3) Costs capitalized subsequent to consolidation includes costs capitalized since acquisition or first consolidation of the partnership/apartment community.
(4) The aggregate cost of land and depreciable property for federal income tax purposes was approximately $3.7 billion at December 31, 2013.
(5) The current carrying value of the apartment community reflects an impairment loss recognized during the current period or prior periods.
(6) Other includes land parcels and development costs.
F-48 Table of Contents APARTMENT INVESTMENT AND MANAGEMENT COMPANY AIMCO PROPERTIES, L.P.
SCHEDULE III:  REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION For the Years Ended December31, 2013 , 2012 and 2011 (In Thousands) 2013 2012 2011 Real Estate Balance at beginning of year $ 8,333,419 $ 8,917,137 $ 9,468,165 Additions during the year: Acquisitions 66,058 131,374 44,681 Capital additions 376,038 272,103 207,263 Deductions during the year: Casualty and other write-offs (1) (98,489 ) (62,589 ) (192,542 ) Reclassification of real estate included in sale of asset management business (Note 3)  (160,420 )  Sales (462,945 ) (764,186 ) (610,430 ) Balance at end of year $ 8,214,081 $ 8,333,419 $ 8,917,137 Accumulated Depreciation Balance at beginning of year $ 2,820,765 $ 2,872,190 $ 2,934,912 Additions during the year: Depreciation 288,666 353,414 382,213 Deductions during the year: Casualty and other write-offs (1) (92,775 ) (46,869 ) (173,941 ) Reclassification of real estate included in sale of asset management business (Note 3)  (33,394 )  Sales (193,784 ) (324,576 ) (270,994 ) Balance at end of year $ 2,822,872 $ 2,820,765 $ 2,872,190 (1) Includes the write-off of fully depreciated assets totaling $91.9 million , $38.7 million and $165.9 million , during the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively.