http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/922864/000104746904007529/a2125839z10-k.htm
3200000000.0
AIV
2011-02-25
10-K
AIV_2011-02-25_10-K.txt

10-K 1 a2125839z10-k.htm 10-K Use these links to rapidly review the document TABLEOFCONTENTS APARTMENT INVESTMENT AND MANAGEMENT COMPANY INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D.C. 20549 Form10-K  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15 OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 For the fiscal year ended December31, 2003 OR o TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15 OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 For the transition period fromto Commission File Number 1-13232 Apartment Investment and Management Company (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) Maryland 84-1259577 (State or other jurisdiction of incorporation or organization) (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.) 4582 South Ulster Street Parkway, Suite 1100 Denver, Colorado 80237 (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code) Registrant's Telephone Number, Including Area Code: (303)757-8101 Securities Registered Pursuant to Section12(b) of the Act: Title of Each Class Name of Each Exchange on Which Registered Class A Common Stock New York Stock Exchange Class D Cumulative Preferred Stock New York Stock Exchange Class G Cumulative Preferred Stock New York Stock Exchange Class P Convertible Cumulative Preferred Stock New York Stock Exchange Class Q Cumulative Preferred Stock New York Stock Exchange Class R Cumulative Preferred Stock New York Stock Exchange Class T Cumulative Preferred Stock New York Stock Exchange Securities Registered Pursuant to Section12(g) of the Act: none Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1)has filed all reports required to be filed by Section13 or 15(d) of the Act during the preceding 12months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2)has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90days. Yes  No o Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of RegulationS-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in PartIII of this Form10-K or any amendment to this Form10-K.
o Indicated by check mark whether the registrant is an accelerated filer (as defined in Rule12b-2 of the Act). Yes  No o The aggregate market value of the voting and non-voting common stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant, was approximately $3.2billion as of June30, 2003. As of February27, 2004, there were 93,577,271 shares of ClassA Common Stock outstanding.
Documents Incorporated by Reference Portions of the registrant's definitive proxy statement to be issued in conjunction with the registrant's annual meeting of stockholders to be held April30, 2004 are incorporated by reference into PartIII of this Annual Report.
APARTMENT INVESTMENT AND MANAGEMENT COMPANY TABLE OF CONTENTS ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K For the Fiscal Year Ended December31, 2003 Item Page PART I 1.
Business 2 2.
Properties 17 3.
Legal Proceedings 18 4.
Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders 18 PART II 5.
Market for the Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 19 6.
Selected Financial Data 21 7.
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 22 7A.
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 40 8.
Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 41 9.
Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 41 9A.
Controls and Procedures 41 PART III 10.
Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant 42 11.
Executive Compensation 42 12.
Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 42 13.
Certain Relationships and Related Transactions 42 14.
Principal Accountant Fees and Services 42 PART IV 15.
Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports on Form8-K 43 1 FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides a "safe harbor" for forward-looking statements in certain circumstances. In addition to historical information, this Annual Report on Form10-K ("Annual Report") contains or may contain certain information that is forward-looking, including, without limitation, statements regarding the effect of acquisitions, our future financial performance and the effect of government regulations. When used in this Annual Report, the words "may," "will," "expect," "intend," "plan," "believe," "anticipate," "estimate," "continue" or other similar words or expressions are generally intended to identify forward-looking statements. You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which reflect our opinions only as of the date of this Annual Report. Actual results may differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements and will be affected by a variety of risks and factors including, without limitation: national and local economic conditions; the general level of interest rates; the terms of governmental regulations that affect us and interpretations of those regulations; the competitive environment in which we operate; financing risks, including the risk that our cash flows from operations may be insufficient to meet required payments of principal and interest; real estate risks, including variations of real estate values and the general economic climate in local markets and competition for tenants in such markets; acquisition and development risks, including failure of such acquisitions to perform in accordance with projections; litigation, including costs associated with prosecuting or defending claims and any adverse outcomes; and possible environmental liabilities, including costs that may be incurred due to necessary remediation of contamination of properties presently owned or previously owned by us. In addition, our current and continuing qualification as a real estate investment trust involves the application of highly technical and complex provisions of the Internal Revenue Code and depends on our ability to meet the various requirements imposed by the Internal Revenue Code, through actual operating results, distribution levels and diversity of stock ownership. Readers should carefully review our financial statements and the notes thereto, as well as the section entitled "Risk Factors" described in Item 1 of this Annual Report and the other documents we file from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
PART I ITEM 1.
Business The Company Apartment Investment and Management Company, or Aimco, is a Maryland corporation incorporated on January10, 1994. We are a self-administered and self-managed real estate investment trust, or REIT, engaged in the acquisition, ownership, management and redevelopment of apartment properties. As of December31, 2003, we owned or managed a real estate portfolio of 1,629 apartment properties containing 287,560 apartment units located in 47 states, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico. Based on apartment unit data compiled by the National Multi Housing Council, as of December31, 2003, we were the largest REIT owner and operator of apartment properties in the United States. Our portfolio includes garden style, mid-rise and high-rise properties and we serve approximately one million residents per year.
We own an equity interest in, and consolidate the majority of, the properties in our owned real estate portfolio. These properties represent the consolidated real estate holdings in our financial statements, or consolidated properties. In addition, we have an equity interest in, but do not consolidate, certain properties that are accounted for under the equity method. These properties represent the investment in unconsolidated real estate partnerships in our financial statements, or unconsolidated properties. Additionally, we manage (both property and asset) but do not own an equity interest in other properties, although in certain cases we may indirectly own generally less than one 2 percent of the operations of such properties through a partnership syndication or other fund. The equity holdings and managed properties are as follows as of December31, 2003: Total Portfolio Properties Units Consolidated properties 679 174,172 Unconsolidated properties 441 62,823 Property managed for third parties 96 11,137 Asset managed for third properties 413 39,428 Total 1,629 287,560 We own a majority of the ownership interests in AIMCO Properties, L.P., which we refer to as the Aimco Operating Partnership. Through our wholly owned subsidiaries, AIMCO-GP,Inc. and AIMCO-LP, Inc, we held approximately an 89% interest in the common partnership units and equivalents of the Aimco Operating Partnership as of December31, 2003. We conduct substantially all of our business and own substantially all of our assets through the Aimco Operating Partnership. Interests in the Aimco Operating Partnership that are held by limited partners other than Aimco are referred to as "OP Units." Generally after a holding period of twelve months, holders of common OP Units may redeem such units for cash or, at our option, Aimco ClassA Common Stock, which we refer to as "Common Stock." At December31, 2003, 93,887,040 shares of our Common Stock were outstanding and the Aimco Operating Partnership had 11,654,216 common OP Units and equivalents outstanding for a combined total of 105,541,256 shares of Common Stock and OP Units outstanding (excluding preferred OP Units).
Since our initial public offering in July1994, we have completed numerous acquisition transactions, expanding our portfolio of owned or managed properties from 132 properties with 29,343 apartment units to 1,629 properties with 287,560 apartment units as of December31, 2003. These acquisitions have included purchases of properties and interests in entities that own or manage properties, as well as corporate mergers.
Except as the context otherwise requires, "we," "our," "us" and the "Company" refer to Aimco, the Aimco Operating Partnership and Aimco's consolidated corporate subsidiaries and consolidated real estate partnerships, collectively. As used herein, and except where the context otherwise requires, "partnership" refers to a limited partnership or a limited liability company and "partner" refers to a limited partner in a limited partnership or a member in a limited liability company.
Available Information Our Annual Report on Form10-K, our Quarterly Reports on Form10-Q, our Current Reports on Form8-K and any amendments to any of those reports that we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission are available free of charge as soon as reasonably practicable through our website at www.aimco.com. The information contained on our website is not incorporated into this Annual Report. Our Common Stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol "AIV." In 2003, our Common Stock was added to the S&P 500, an index of 500 companies in leading industries of the United States economy.
Financial Information About Industry Segments We operate in two reportable segments: real estate (owning and operating apartments) and investment management business (providing property management and other services relating to the apartment business to third parties and affiliates). For further information on these segments and other related information on the various components of our operations, see Note18 of the consolidated 3 financial statements in Item 8, and Management's Discussion and Analysis in Item 7, of this Annual Report.
Business Overview Our principal objective is to increase long-term stockholder value which we believe results from increasing asset values, increasing operating cash flows and long-term, predictable Funds From Operations, or FFO (as defined by the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts), per share of Common Stock, less capital spending for replacements and enhancements. For a description of the meaning of FFO and its use and limitations as an operating measure, see the discussion titled "Funds From Operations" in Item 7 of this Annual Report.
We strive to meet our objectives by focusing on property operations, portfolio management, reinvestment in properties, and by using leverage that is largely long-term, non-recourse and property specific.
Property Operations: Conventional and Aimco Capital Our property operations are divided into two business components: conventional and affordable. Our conventional operations, which typically are market-rate apartments with rents paid by the resident, include 632 properties and 178,397 units. Our affordable operations, which typically are apartments with rents set by a government agency and frequently subsidized or paid by a government agency, include 488 properties with 58,598 units organized under Aimco Capital.
Our property operations are characterized by diversification of product, location and price point. We operate a broad range of property types, from suburban garden-style to urban high-rise properties in 47 states, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico at a broad range of average monthly rental rates, with most between $500 and $1,200 per month, and reaching as much as $2,900 per month at some of our premier properties. This geographic diversification insulates us, to some degree, from inevitable downturns in any one market.
Conventional Our conventional operations are organized into 15 regional operating centers, or ROCs, each of which is supervised by a Regional Vice President, or RVP. The ROCs are generally smaller business units with specialized operational, financial and human resource leadership. We seek to improve the operating results from our property operations by, among other methods, combining centralized financial control and uniform operating procedures with localized property management decision-making and market knowledge. In 2003, we renewed our focus on the ROCs overseeing our conventional operations. To manage our nationwide portfolio more efficiently and to increase the benefits from our local management expertise, we increased the level of accountability at the regional operating center level by giving direct responsibility for operations to the RVP with oversight from extensive regular reviews with senior management. To enable the RVPs to focus on sales and service, we narrowed the ROC mission and provided the ROCs with more resources, better systems, greater focus, and in many cases new leadership. In particular, we hired a dedicated regional financial officer to support each RVP, by improving financial control and budgeting. We also developed an expanded construction services group to handle all site work beyond routine maintenance, thus eliminating the need for RVPs to spend time on oversight of construction projects. We improved our corporate-level oversight of conventional property operations by developing better systems, standardizing business goals, operational measurements and internal reporting, and enhancing financial controls over field operations. We believe that these changes will enable our regional and community managers to benefit from more organizational clarity, more and better information, and more tools to help them make 4 quicker, better decisions closer to the property and to the customer, including the areas discussed below.
Resident Selection and Retention.
In apartment properties, neighbors are a part of the product together with the location of the property and the physical quality of the apartment units. Part of our conventional operations strategy focuses on resident acquisition and retentionattracting and retaining residents who are good neighbors and are credit worthy. We standardized residential financial stability requirements and raised the standard across our portfolio to reduce turnover costs and improve retention. We believe that the costs exceed the benefits when higher occupancy results from financially riskier residents or lowering financial stability standards.
Revenue Increases.
We increase rents where feasible and seek to improve occupancy rates. We are also focused on the automation of on-site operations, as we believe that timely and accurate collection of property performance and resident profile data will enable us to maximize revenue through better property management and leasing decisions. We implemented standardized policies for new and renewal pricing with timely data and analyses by floor-plan, thereby enabling us to maximize our ability to modify pricing, even in challenging sub-markets. In addition, we intend to continue our emphasis on the quality of our on-site employees through recruiting, training and retention programs, which we believe lead to increased occupancy rates through improved customer service and enhanced performance.
Controlling Expenses.
Cost controls are accomplished by local focus at the ROC level and by taking advantage of economies of scale at the corporate level. As a result of the size of our portfolio and our creation of regional concentrations of properties, we have the ability to spread over a large property base fixed costs for general and administrative expenditures and certain operating functions, such as purchasing, insurance and information technology. We are automating our supply chain to provide better control over purchasing decisions and to take advantage of volume discounts.
Ancillary Services.
We believe that our ownership and management of properties provide us with unique access to a customer base that allows us to provide additional services and thereby increase occupancy and rents, while also generating incremental revenue. We currently provide cable television, telephone services, appliance rental, and carport, garage and storage space rental at certain properties.
Aimco Capital Aimco is among the largest owners and operators of affordable properties in the United States. We formed Aimco Capital in 2002 to focus on our affordable housing properties, the operations of which are most often subsidized by the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development, or HUD, state housing agencies or tax credit financing. Aimco Capital has organized its property operations and asset management under a management team dedicated to this sector. Aimco Capital operates through four ROCs. Aimco Capital also generates income from asset management (compliance oversight for its owned and operated affordable portfolio as well as two other large portfolios that are asset managed only) and transactional activity related to its affordable holdings such as dispositions, tax credit redevelopment and refinancings.
Portfolio Management Starting in 2003, we began to view our conventional property portfolio in terms of "core" and "non-core" properties. Core properties are those properties that are located in selected markets, many where population and employment growth are expected to exceed national trends and where we believe that we can become a regionally significant owner. We categorize core properties among: "preferred markets"which are typically coastal, with high barriers to entry and home prices and median incomes 5 above the national average; "growth markets"which are typically in sunbelt regions with expectations of above average job growth; and "stable markets"which are located in Midwest areas with limited new construction but also limited job growth. We intend to hold and improve core properties over the long-term and seek an allocation of properties among the above three categories in order to reduce volatility of our overall property operations. At December31, 2003, we had 368 conventional core properties in 46 selected markets. Within our core portfolio, the largest single market (Washington, D.C.) contributed approximately 13%, and the five largest markets (Washington, D.C., greater Los Angeles, New England, Philadelphia and Chicago) together contributed approximately 43%, to income before depreciation and interest expense. Non-core properties are those properties located in other markets or in less favored locations within the 46 selected markets, which we generally intend to hold for investment for the intermediate term. At December31, 2003, we had 264 conventional non-core properties.
Portfolio management includes expanding our core portfolio through acquisitions of properties located in selected markets throughout the United States. We specifically seek investments in a variety of asset qualities and types in the selected markets at a purchase price below replacement cost. Currently, we acquire properties and property interests primarily in two ways:  the direct acquisition of a property or portfolio of properties through a purchase from, or a merger or business combination with, an entity that owns or controls the property or portfolio being acquired; and  the purchase from third parties, subject to our fiduciary duties, of additional interests in partnerships where we own a general partnership interest. These are typically executed for cash or OP Units. Since 1996, we have completed over 2,700 tender offers with respect to various partnerships resulting in over 160,000 transactions totaling $853million in cash paid and OP Units issued to purchase additional interests in such partnerships.
Portfolio management also includes dispositions of properties located in other markets, properties located in less desirable sub-markets or properties that do not meet our long-term investment criteria. The sales of non-core properties, partially fund our acquisitions. In 2003, we sold 77 non-core properties, generating net cash proceeds to us, after repayment of existing debt, payment of transaction costs and distributions to limited partners, of $281million. As of December31, 2003, we had approximately 75 non-core properties being marketed for sale. In addition, we had approximately 200 affordable properties being marketed for sale.
Reinvestment in Properties We believe that the physical condition and amenities of our apartment properties are important factors in our ability to maintain and increase rental rates. In 2003, we spent $563 per owned apartment unit for Capital Replacements, which are expenditures required to maintain the related asset, and $17 per owned apartment unit for Capital Enhancements, which are expenditures that add a new feature or revenue source.
In addition to upkeep and maintenance of our properties, we focus on the redevelopment of certain properties each year. We believe redevelopment of certain properties in superior locations provides advantages over ground-up development, enabling us to generate rents comparable to new properties with relatively lower financial risk, in less time and with reduced delays associated with governmental permits and authorizations. As of December31, 2003, we had under redevelopment eight conventional properties with 5,187 units (which includes three properties for which redevelopment activities were complete but the operations of which had not yet stabilized) and two affordable properties with 467 units. During 2003, we completed redevelopment projects with approximately $73million in cumulative spending to date, including major projects in Cincinnati, Ohio; Atlanta, Georgia; and Indianapolis, Indiana. Redevelopment expenditures for five conventional properties with 6 ongoing redevelopment activities will require an estimated total investment (redevelopment spending) of $323million, of which approximately $48million remains to be spent. Our share of the estimated total spending on those five properties is $243million of which approximately $31million remains to be spent. In 2003, our specialized redevelopment team was expanded to include a Construction Services Group to oversee both major capital replacement and redevelopment projects. These experts include engineers, architects and construction managers. In 2004, we plan to commence as many as 40 redevelopments with spending per project in the $2million to $10million range.
Our Taxation We have elected to be taxed as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, which we refer to as the Code, commencing with our taxable year ended December31, 1994, and intend to continue to operate in such a manner. Our current and continuing qualification as a REIT depends on our ability to meet the various requirements imposed by the Code, through actual operating results, distribution levels and diversity of stock ownership. If we qualify for taxation as a REIT, we will generally not be subject to United States Federal corporate income tax on our net income that is currently distributed to stockholders. This treatment substantially eliminates the "double taxation" (at the corporate and stockholder levels) that generally results from investment in a corporation.
Even if we qualify as a REIT, we may be subject to United States Federal income and excise taxes in various situations, such as on our undistributed income. We also will be required to pay 100% tax on non-arms length transactions between us and a TRS (described below) and on any net income from sales of property that the IRS successfully asserts was property held for sale to customers in the ordinary course. We and our stockholders may be subject to state or local taxation in various state or local jurisdictions, including those in which we or they transact business or reside. Any taxes imposed on us would reduce our operating cash flow. The state and local tax treatment that we and our stockholders receive may not conform to the United States Federal income tax treatment.
Certain of our operations (property management, asset management, risk, etc.) are conducted through taxable REIT subsidiaries, each of which we refer to as a TRS. A TRS is a C-corporation that has not elected REIT status and as such is subject to United States Federal corporate income tax. We use the TRS format to facilitate our ability to offer certain services and activities to our residents that are not generally considered as qualifying REIT activities.
Competition In attracting and retaining residents to occupy our properties we compete with numerous other housing alternatives. Our properties compete directly with other rental apartments, as well as with condominiums and single-family homes that are available for rent or purchase in the markets in which our properties are located. Principal factors of competition include rent charged, attractiveness of the location and property and quality and breadth of services. The number of competitive properties in a particular area has a material effect on our ability to lease apartment units at our properties and on the rents we charge. Additionally, we compete with other real estate investors, including other apartment REITs, pension and investment funds, partnerships and investment companies in acquiring, redeveloping and managing apartment properties. This affects our ability to acquire properties we want to add to our portfolios and the price that we pay in such acquisitions.
Regulation General Apartment properties are subject to various laws, ordinances and regulations, including regulations relating to recreational facilities such as swimming pools, activity centers and other common areas.
7 Changes in laws increasing the potential liability for environmental conditions existing on properties or increasing the restrictions on discharges or other conditions, as well as changes in laws affecting development, construction and safety requirements, may result in significant unanticipated expenditures, which would adversely affect our cash flows from operating activities. In addition, future enactment of rent control or rent stabilization laws or other laws regulating multifamily housing may reduce rental revenue or increase operating costs in particular markets.
Environmental Various Federal, state and local laws subject property owners or operators to liability for management, and the costs of removal or remediation, of certain hazardous substances present on a property. Such laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the release or presence of the hazardous substances. The presence of, or the failure to manage or remedy properly, hazardous substances may adversely affect occupancy at affected apartment communities and the ability to sell or finance affected properties. In addition to the costs associated with investigation and remediation actions brought by government agencies, the presence of hazardous substances on a property could result in claims by private plaintiffs for personal injury, disease, disability or other infirmities. Various laws also impose liability for the cost of removal, remediation or disposal of hazardous substances through a licensed disposal or treatment facility. Anyone who arranges for the disposal or treatment of hazardous substances is potentially liable under such laws. These laws often impose liability whether or not the person arranging for the disposal ever owned or operated the disposal facility. In connection with the ownership, operation and management of properties, we could potentially be liable for environmental liabilities or costs associated with our properties or properties we acquire or manage in the future.
We are aware of lawsuits against owners and managers of multifamily properties asserting claims of personal injury and property damage caused by the presence of mold, some of which have resulted in substantial monetary judgments or settlements. We have been named as a defendant in lawsuits that have alleged personal injury as a result of the presence of mold. Prior to March31, 2002, we generally were insured against claims arising from the presence of mold due to water intrusion. However, since March31, 2002, our insurance coverage for property damage loss claims arising from the presence of mold has become more limited and generally includes only limited coverage for catastrophic property damage due to mold. In addition, since December31, 2002, our insurance coverage for personal injury claims related to mold exposure has also become more limited.
We have implemented a national policy and procedures to prevent or eliminate mold from our properties. Our policy and procedures are based on guidelines established by various Federal, state and local bodies. We believe that our measures will eliminate, or at least minimize, the effects that mold could have on our residents. To date, we have not incurred any material costs or liabilities relating to claims of mold exposure or to abate mold conditions. Because the law regarding mold is unsettled and subject to change, we can make no assurance that liabilities resulting from the presence of or exposure to mold will not have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations taken as a whole.
Insurance We believe that our insurance coverages adequately insure our properties against the risk of loss attributable to fire, earthquake, hurricane, tornado, flood and other perils. Beginning in March2004, for property insurance at our conventional properties, we have a retention of $250,000. Third party insurance covers losses in excess of our $250,000 retention up to a limit of $350million. Also, if a specific covered loss in our conventional portfolio exceeds $2.75million, we have an annual aggregate retention of $2million, and third party insurance covers losses in excess of that $2million retention, again up to a limit of $350million. With respect to property insurance at our affordable properties, 8 each property has a deductible of $25,000 per loss. Third party insurance covers losses in excess of that deductible, subject to the same annual aggregate retention of $2million as described above, but for losses above $2.5million, and up to a limit of $350million. In addition, beginning in 2004, we have self-insured retentions for workers' compensation and general liability coverage of $500,000 each per incident. Third party insurance covers losses in excess of our $500,000 retention. We have established loss prevention, loss mitigation, claim handling, litigation management, and loss reserving procedures to manage our exposure.
Employees We currently have approximately 7,300 employees, of which approximately 6,300 are at the property level, performing various on-site functions, with the balance managing corporate and regional operations, including investment and debt transactions, legal, financial reporting, accounting, information systems, human resources and other support functions. Unions represent fewer than 200 of our employees. We have never experienced a work stoppage and believe we maintain satisfactory relations with our employees.
Risk Factors The risk factors noted in this section and other factors noted throughout this Annual Report, describe certain risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement.
Changes in the real estate market may limit our ability to generate Funds From Operations.
Our ability to make payments to our investors depends on our ability to generate Funds From Operations in excess of required debt payments and capital expenditure requirements. Funds From Operations and the value of our properties may be adversely affected by events or conditions beyond our control, including:  the general economic climate;  competition from other apartment communities and other housing options;  local conditions, such as an increase in unemployment or an increase in the supply of apartments, that might adversely affect apartment occupancy or rental rates;  changes in governmental regulations and the related cost of compliance;  increases in operating costs (including real estate taxes) due to inflation and other factors, which may not necessarily be offset by increased rents;  changes in tax laws and housing laws, including the enactment of rent control laws or other laws regulating multifamily housing;  changes in interest rates and the availability of financing; and  the relative illiquidity of real estate investments.
If we are not able successfully to acquire, operate, redevelop and expand properties, our growth and results of operations will be adversely affected.
The selective acquisition, redevelopment and expansion of properties are one component of our growth strategy. However, we may not be able to complete successfully transactions in the future. Although we seek to acquire, operate, redevelop and expand properties only when such activities 9 increase our net income on a per share basis, such transactions may fail to perform in accordance with our expectations. When we redevelop or expand properties, we are subject to the risks that:  costs may exceed original estimates;  occupancy and rental rates at the property may be below our projections;  financing may not be available on favorable terms or at all;  redevelopment and leasing of the properties may not be completed on schedule; and  we may experience difficulty or delays in obtaining necessary zoning, land-use, building, occupancy and other governmental permits and authorizations.
We may have difficulty integrating any acquired businesses or properties.
We have grown rapidly. Since our initial public offering in July1994, we have completed numerous acquisition transactions, expanding our portfolio of owned or managed properties from 132 properties with 29,343 apartment units to 1,629 properties with 287,560 apartment units as of December31, 2003. These acquisitions have included purchases of properties and interests in entities that own or manage properties, as well as corporate mergers. Our ability to integrate successfully acquired businesses and properties depends, among other things, on our ability to:  attract and retain qualified personnel;  integrate the personnel and operations of the acquired businesses;  maintain standards, controls, procedures and policies; and  maintain adequate accounting and information systems.
We can provide no assurance that we will be able to accomplish these goals and successfully integrate any acquired businesses or properties. If we fail to integrate successfully such businesses, our results of operations could be adversely affected.
We may be subject to litigation associated with partnership acquisitions that could increase our expenses and prevent completion of beneficial transactions.
We have engaged in, and intend to continue to engage in, the selective acquisition of interests in partnerships that own apartment properties. In some cases, we have acquired the general partner of a partnership and then made an offer to acquire the limited partners' interests in the partnership. In these transactions, we may be subject to litigation based on claims that we, as the general partner, have breached our fiduciary duty to our limited partners or that the transaction violates the relevant partnership agreement or state law. Although we intend to comply with our fiduciary obligations and the relevant partnership agreements, we may incur additional costs in connection with the defense or settlement of this type of litigation. In some cases, this type of litigation may adversely affect our desire to proceed with, or our ability to complete, a particular transaction. Any litigation of this type could also have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations.
Our existing and future debt financing could render us unable to operate, result in foreclosure on our properties or prevent us from making distributions on our equity.
Our strategy is generally to incur debt to increase the return on our equity while maintaining acceptable interest coverage ratios. We seek to maintain a ratio of free cash flow to combined interest expense and preferred stock dividends of greater than 2:1 and to match debt maturities to the character of the assets financed. For the year ended December31, 2003, however, we had a ratio of free cash flow to combined interest expense and preferred stock dividends of 1.5:1, and this ratio in prior periods 10 has also deviated from our goal. In addition, our Board of Directors could change this strategy at any time and increase our leverage. Our organizational documents do not limit the amount of debt that we may incur, and we have significant amounts of debt outstanding. Payments of principal and interest may leave us with insufficient cash resources to operate our properties or pay distributions required to be paid in order to maintain our qualification as a REIT. We are also subject to the risk that our cash flow from operations will be insufficient to make required payments of principal and interest, and the risk that existing indebtedness may not be refinanced or that the terms of any refinancing will not be as favorable as the terms of existing indebtedness. If we fail to make required payments of principal and interest on any debt, our lenders could foreclose on the properties securing such debt, which would result in loss of income and asset value to us. As of December31, 2003, substantially all of the properties that we owned or controlled were encumbered by debt.
Increases in interest rates would increase our interest expense.
As of December31, 2003, we had approximately $1,599.0million of variable-rate indebtedness outstanding. Based on this level of debt, an increase in interest rates of 1% would result in our income and cash flows being reduced by $16.0million on an annual basis and could reduce our ability to service our indebtedness and make dividends or other distributions. Of the total debt subject to variable interest rates, floating rate tax-exempt bond financing was $817.5million. Floating rate tax-exempt bond financing is benchmarked against the Bond Market Association Municipal Swap Index, or the BMA Index, which since 1981 has averaged 54.0% of the 10-year Treasury Yield. If this relationship continues, an increase in interest rates of 1% (0.54% in tax-exempt interest rates) would result in our income before minority interests and cash flows being reduced by $11.2million on an annual basis.
Covenant restrictions may limit our ability to make payments to our investors.
Some of our debt and other securities contain covenants that restrict our ability to make distributions or other payments to our investors unless certain financial tests or other criteria are satisfied. Our revolving credit facility and term loans provide that we may make distributions to our investors during any 12-month period in an aggregate amount that does not exceed the greater of 90% of our Funds From Operations for such period or such amount as may be necessary to maintain our REIT status. Pursuant to the amendments of our credit facilities, effective September2003, the credit facilities prohibit all distributions (as defined in the credit facilities) if certain financial covenants are not satisfied.
Our outstanding classes of preferred stock prohibit the payment of dividends on our Common Stock if we fail to pay the dividends to which the holders of the preferred stock are entitled. In addition, our 6 1 / 2 % convertible debentures prohibit the payment of dividends on our capital stock if we elect to defer payments of interest on these convertible debentures, which we may have the right to do for up to 60months. If we are unable to pay dividends on our Common Stock, we may fail to qualify as a REIT. This would subject us to corporate taxation and reduce our ability to make distributions to our investors.
We depend on distributions and other payments from our subsidiaries that they may be prohibited from making to us.
All of our properties are owned, and all of our operations are conducted, by the Aimco Operating Partnership and our other subsidiaries. As a result, we depend on distributions and other payments from our subsidiaries in order to satisfy our financial obligations and make payments to our investors. The ability of our subsidiaries to make such distributions and other payments depends on their earnings and may be subject to statutory or contractual limitations. As an equity investor in our subsidiaries, our right to receive assets upon their liquidation or reorganization will be effectively subordinated to the 11 claims of their creditors. To the extent that we are recognized as a creditor of such subsidiaries, our claims may still be subordinate to any security interest in or other lien on their assets and to any of their debt or other obligations that are senior to our claims.
Laws benefiting disabled persons may result in our incurrence of unanticipated expenses.
Under the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, or ADA, all places intended to be used by the public are required to meet certain Federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. Likewise, the Fair Housing Amendments Act of 1988, or FHAA, requires apartment properties first occupied after March13, 1990 to be accessible to the handicapped. These and other Federal, state and local laws may require modifications to our properties, or restrict renovations of the properties. Noncompliance with these laws could result in the imposition of fines or an award of damages to private litigants and also could result in an order to correct any non-complying feature, which could result in substantial capital expenditures. Although we believe that our properties are substantially in compliance with present requirements, we may incur unanticipated expenses to comply with the ADA and the FHAA.
Affordable housing regulations may limit rent increases at some of our properties, reducing our revenue and, in some cases, causing us to sell properties that we might otherwise continue to own.
As of December31, 2003, we owned an equity interest in 488 properties and managed for third parties and affiliates 474 properties that benefit from governmental programs intended to provide housing to people with low or moderate incomes. These programs, which are usually administered by HUD or state housing finance agencies, typically provide mortgage insurance, favorable financing terms or rental assistance payments to the property owners. As a condition of the receipt of assistance under these programs, the properties must comply with various requirements, which typically limit rents to pre-approved amounts. If permitted rents on a property are insufficient to cover costs, a sale of the property may become necessary, which could result in a loss of management fee revenue. We usually need to obtain the approval of HUD in order to manage, or acquire a significant interest in, a HUD-assisted property. We may not always receive such approval.
We depend on our senior management Our success depends upon the retention of our senior management, including Terry Considine, our chief executive officer. We cannot assure you that we would be able to find qualified replacements for the individuals who make up our senior management if their services were no longer available. The loss of services of one or more members of our senior management team could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We do not currently maintain key-man life insurance for any of our employees. The loss of any member of senior management could adversely affect our ability to pursue effectively our business strategy.
We may fail to qualify as a REIT.
We believe that we operate, and have always operated, in a manner that enables us to meet the requirements for qualification as a REIT for Federal income tax purposes. Our continued qualification as a REIT will depend on our satisfaction of certain asset, income, investment, organizational, distribution, stockholder ownership and other requirements on a continuing basis. Our ability to satisfy the asset tests depends upon our analysis of the fair market values of our assets, some of which are not susceptible to a precise determination, and for which we will not obtain independent appraisals. Our compliance with the REIT income and quarterly asset requirements also depends upon our ability to manage successfully the composition of our income and assets on an ongoing basis. Moreover, the proper classification of an instrument as debt or equity for Federal income tax purposes may be uncertain in some circumstances, which could affect the application of the REIT qualification 12 requirements. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that the Internal Revenue Service, or the IRS, will not contend that our interests in subsidiaries or other issuers constitutes a violation of the REIT requirements. Moreover, future economic, market, legal, tax or other considerations may cause us to fail to qualify as a REIT, or our Board of Directors may determine to revoke our REIT status. If we fail to qualify as a REIT, we will not be allowed a deduction for dividends paid to our stockholders in computing our taxable income, and we will be subject to Federal income tax at regular corporate rates, including any applicable alternative minimum tax. This would substantially reduce our funds available for payment to our investors. Unless entitled to relief under certain provisions of the Code, we would also be disqualified from taxation as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year during which we ceased to qualify as a REIT.
In addition, our failure to qualify as a REIT would trigger the following consequences:  we would be obligated to repurchase a material amount of our preferred stock, plus accrued and unpaid dividends to the date of repurchase; and  we would be in default under our primary credit facilities and certain other loan agreements.
REIT distribution requirements limit our available cash.
As a REIT, we are subject to annual distribution requirements, which limit the amount of cash we retain for other business purposes, including amounts to fund our growth. We generally must distribute annually at least 90% of our net REIT taxable income, excluding any net capital gain, in order for corporate income tax not to apply to earnings that we distribute. We intend to make distributions to our stockholders to comply with the requirements of the Code. However, differences in timing between the recognition of taxable income and the actual receipt of cash could require us to sell assets or borrow funds on a short-term or long-term basis to meet the 90% distribution requirement of the Code.
Legislative or other actions affecting REITs could have a negative effect on us.
The rules dealing with Federal income taxation are constantly under review by persons involved in the legislative process and by the IRS and the United States Treasury Department. Changes to the tax laws, which may have retroactive application, could adversely affect our investors or us. We cannot predict how changes in the tax laws might affect our investors or us. For example, under legislation effective January1, 2001, if any of our taxable REIT subsidiaries were deemed to operate or manage a health care or lodging facility, we would fail to qualify as a REIT. Although we believe that, since January1, 2001, none of our taxable REIT subsidiaries have operated or managed any health care or lodging facilities, the statute provides little guidance as to the definition of a health care or lodging facility. Accordingly, we cannot assure that the IRS will not contend that any of our taxable REIT subsidiaries operate or manage a health care or lodging facility, resulting in our disqualification as a REIT.
The FBI has issued alerts regarding potential terrorist threats involving apartment buildingsa risk for which we are only partially insured.
On May6, 2002 and February7, 2003, the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the United States Department of Homeland Security issued alerts regarding potential terrorist threats involving apartment buildings. Threats of future terrorist attacks, such as those announced by the FBI and the Department of Homeland Security, could have a negative effect on rent and occupancy levels at our properties. The effect that future terrorist activities or threats of such activities could have on our business is uncertain and unpredictable. If we incur a loss at a property as a result of an act of terrorism, we could lose all or a portion of the capital we have invested in the property, as well as the future revenue from the property. The enactment by the United States Congress of the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act, or TRIA, 13 resulted in terrorism coverage exclusions being invalidated and quotes at each policy renewal have been offered. Prior to the enactment of TRIA, and because we have a highly diversified and geographically dispersed portfolio of residential properties, our lenders generally had not required us to purchase terrorism insurance. However, since the enactment of TRIA and increased scrutiny of lenders regarding terrorism exposure, we have sometimes been required to purchase terrorism insurance. In all cases, we have purchased insurance that exceeds the minimum requirements of our lenders. Currently, these costs have not had a negative effect on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations taken as a whole.
The market place for insurance coverage is uncertain and in some cases insurance is becoming more expensive and more difficult to obtain.
The current insurance market is characterized by volatility with respect to premiums, deductible and coverage. For certain types of coverage, such as property coverage, we are currently experiencing declining premiums. For other types of coverage, however, such as liability and executive coverage, we continue to experience rising premiums, higher deductibles, and more restrictive coverage language. Although we make use of many alternative methods of risk financing that enable us to insulate ourselves to some degree from variations in coverage language and cost, sustained deterioration in insurance marketplace conditions may have a negative effect on our operating results.
Limits on ownership of shares in our charter may result in the loss of economic and voting rights by purchasers that violate those limits.
Our charter limits ownership of our Common Stock by any single stockholder to 8.7% of our outstanding shares of Common Stock, or 15% in the case of certain pension trusts, registered investment companies and Mr.Considine. Our charter also limits ownership of our Common Stock and preferred stock by any single stockholder to 8.7% of the value of the outstanding Common Stock and preferred stock, or 15% in the case of certain pension trusts, registered investment companies and Mr.Considine. The charter also prohibits anyone from buying shares of our capital stock if the purchase would result in us losing our REIT status. This could happen if a transaction results in fewer than 100 persons owning all of our shares of capital stock or results in five or fewer persons, applying certain attribution rules of the Code, owning 50% or more of the value of all of our shares of capital stock. If anyone acquires shares in excess of the ownership limit or in violation of the ownership requirements of the Code for REITs:  the transfer will be considered null and void;  we will not reflect the transaction on our books;  we may institute legal action to enjoin the transaction;  we may demand repayment of any dividends received by the affected person on those shares;  we may redeem the shares;  the affected person will not have any voting rights for those shares; and  the shares (and all voting and dividend rights of the shares) will be held in trust for the benefit of one or more charitable organizations designated by us.
We may purchase the shares of capital stock held in trust at a price equal to the lesser of the price paid by the transferee of the shares or the then current market price. If the trust transfers any of the shares of capital stock, the affected person will receive the lesser of the price paid for the shares or the 14 then current market price. An individual who acquires shares of capital stock that violate the above rules bears the risk that the individual:  may lose control over the power to dispose of such shares;  may not recognize profit from the sale of such shares if the market price of the shares increases;  may be required to recognize a loss from the sale of such shares if the market price decreases; and  may be required to repay to us any distributions received from us as a result of his or her ownership of the shares.
Our charter may limit the ability of a third party to acquire control of us.
The 8.7% ownership limit discussed above may have the effect of precluding acquisition of control of us by a third party without the consent of our Board of Directors. Our charter authorizes our Board of Directors to issue up to 510,587,500 shares of capital stock. As of December31, 2003, 444,962,738 shares were classified as Common Stock and 65,624,762 shares were classified as preferred stock. Under our charter, our Board of Directors has the authority to classify and reclassify any of our unissued shares of capital stock into shares of capital stock with such preferences, rights, powers and restrictions as our Board of Directors may determine. The authorization and issuance of a new class of capital stock could have the effect of delaying or preventing someone from taking control of us, even if a change in control were in our stockholders' best interests.
Maryland business statutes may limit the ability of a third party to acquire control of us.
As a Maryland corporation, we are subject to various Maryland laws that may have the effect of discouraging offers to acquire us and increasing the difficulty of consummating any such offers, even if our acquisition would be in our stockholders' best interests. The Maryland General Corporation Law restricts mergers and other business combination transactions between us and any person who acquires beneficial ownership of shares of our stock representing 10% or more of the voting power without our Board of Directors' prior approval. Any such business combination transaction could not be completed until five years after the person acquired such voting power, and generally only with the approval of stockholders representing 80% of all votes entitled to be cast and 66 2 / 3 % of the votes entitled to be cast, excluding the interested stockholder, or upon payment of a fair price. Maryland law also provides generally that a person who acquires shares of our capital stock that represent 10% or more of the voting power in electing directors will have no voting rights unless approved by a vote of two-thirds of the shares eligible to vote. Additionally, Maryland law provides, among other things, that the board of directors has broad discretion in adopting stockholders' rights plans and has the sole power to fix the record date, time and place for special meetings of the stockholders. In addition, Maryland law provides that corporations that:  have at least three directors who are not employees of the entity or related to an acquiring person; and  are subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, may elect in their charter or bylaws or by resolution of the board of directors to be subject to all or part of a special subtitle that provides that:  the corporation will have a staggered board of directors;  any director may be removed only for cause and by the vote of two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast in the election of directors generally, even if a lesser proportion is provided in the charter or bylaws; 15  the number of directors may only be set by the board of directors, even if the procedure is contrary to the charter or bylaws;  vacancies may only be filled by the remaining directors, even if the procedure is contrary to the charter or bylaws; and  the secretary of the corporation may call a special meeting of stockholders at the request of stockholders only on the written request of the stockholders entitled to cast at least a majority of all the votes entitled to be cast at the meeting, even if the procedure is contrary to the charter or bylaws.
To date, we have not made any of the elections described above.
Other On February26, 2004, we announced that, as part of our previously stated plan to hire a chief operating officer, effective April1, 2004, Peter Kompaniez, our president and vice chairman will relinquish the title of president. Mr.Kompaniez will continue in the role of vice chairman of the board of directors and will serve us on a variety of special and ongoing projects in an operating role. We have initiated a search process for a chief operating officer, which we expect to complete no later than year-end. Pending that appointment, Mr.Considine will serve as president, in addition to his continued duties as chairman and chief executive officer.
16 ITEM 2.
Properties Our properties are located in 47 states, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico. Conventional properties are operated through 15 regional operating centers. Affordable property operations are managed through Aimco Capital and are operated through four regional operating centers. The following table sets forth information on all of our property operations as of December31, 2003: Regional Operating Center Number of Properties Number of Units Conventional: Atlanta, GA 37 10,826 Boston, MA 14 5,385 Chicago, IL 42 11,255 Columbia, SC 67 15,875 Dallas, TX 67 15,707 Denver, CO 34 7,572 Houston, TX 37 9,776 Indianapolis, IN 46 13,131 Los Angeles, CA 44 12,193 Michigan 58 16,629 Philadelphia, PA 17 7,681 Phoenix, AZ 42 11,388 Rockville, MD 39 14,502 South Florida 17 6,507 Tampa/Orlando, FL 59 16,102 Total conventional owned and managed 620 174,529 Affordable (Aimco Capital): Midwest 102 14,067 Northeast 132 19,023 Southeast 116 11,472 West 100 9,647 Total affordable owned and managed 450 54,209 Owned but not managed 50 8,257 Property managed for third parties 96 11,137 Asset managed for third parties 413 39,428 Total 1,629 287,560 At December31, 2003, we owned an equity interest in and consolidated 679 properties containing 174,172 apartment units, which we refer to as "consolidated." These consolidated properties contain, on average, 259 apartment units, with the largest property containing 2,899 apartment units. These properties offer residents a range of amenities, including swimming pools, clubhouses, spas, fitness centers, tennis courts and saunas. Many of the apartment units offer design and appliance features such as vaulted ceilings, fireplaces, washer and dryer hook-ups, cable television, balconies and patios. Additional information on our consolidated properties is contained in "ScheduleIII, Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation" in this Annual Report. At December31, 2003, we held an equity interest in and did not consolidate 441 properties containing 62,823 apartment units, which we refer to as "unconsolidated." In addition, we provided property management services for third parties owning 96 properties containing 11,137 apartment units, and asset management services for third parties owning 413 properties containing 39,428 apartment units, although in certain cases we may indirectly own generally less than one percent of the operations of such properties through a partnership syndication or other fund.
17 Substantially all of our consolidated properties are encumbered by mortgage indebtedness. At December31, 2003, our consolidated properties were encumbered by aggregate mortgage indebtedness totaling $5,648.9million. Such mortgage indebtedness was secured by 657 properties with a combined net book value of $8,686.6million, having an aggregate weighted average interest rate of 6.11%, not including $40.7million of mortgage indebtedness included within liabilities related to assets held for sale. As of December31, 2003, we had a total of 45 mortgage loans, with an aggregate principal balance outstanding of $548.3million, that were each secured by property and cross-collateralized with certain other mortgage loans. See Note6 of the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report for additional information about our indebtedness.
ITEM 3.
Legal Proceedings See the information under the caption "Legal" in Note9 of the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report for information regarding legal proceedings, which information is incorporated by reference in this Item 3.
ITEM 4.
Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders None.
18 PART II ITEM 5.
Market for the Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Our Common Stock has been listed and traded on the NYSE under the symbol "AIV" since July22, 1994. The following table sets forth the quarterly high and low sales prices of our Common Stock, as reported on the NYSE, and the dividends declared for the periods indicated: Quarter Ended High Low Dividends Declared (per share) 2003 December31, 2003 $ 42.05 $ 33.00 $ 0.60 September30, 2003 39.85 34.11 0.60 June30, 2003 39.81 33.67 0.82 March31, 2003 39.19 34.64 0.82 2002 December31, 2002 38.85 34.51 0.82 September30, 2002 49.44 38.61 0.82 June30, 2002 51.46 46.17 0.82 March31, 2002 48.65 42.88 0.82 On February27, 2004, the closing price of our Common Stock was $32.40 per share, as reported on the NYSE and there were 93,577,271 shares of Common Stock outstanding, held by 3,847 stockholders of record. The number of holders does not include individuals or entities who beneficially own shares but whose shares are held of record by a broker or clearing agency, but does include each such broker or clearing agency as one recordholder.
As a REIT, we are required to distribute annually to holders of common stock at least 90% of our "real estate investment trust taxable income," which, as defined by the Code and United States Department of Treasury regulations, is generally equivalent to net taxable ordinary income. We measure our economic profitability and intend to pay regular dividends to our stockholders based on Funds From Operations, less Capital Replacements during the relevant period. Future payment of dividends are at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend on numerous factors including our financial condition, capital requirements, the annual distribution requirements under the provisions of the Code applicable to REITs and such other factors as our Board of Directors deems relevant.
From time to time, we issue shares of Common Stock in exchange for common and preferred OP Units tendered to the Aimco Operating Partnership for redemption in accordance with the terms and provisions of the agreement of limited partnership of the Aimco Operating Partnership. Such shares are issued based on an exchange ratio of one share for each common OP Unit or applicable conversion ratio for preferred OP Units. The shares are generally issued in exchange for OP Units in private transactions exempt from registration under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, pursuant to Section4(2) thereof. During the three and twelve months ended December31, 2003, approximately 219,000 and 338,000 shares of Common Stock were issued in exchange for common OP Units. During the three and twelve months ended December31, 2003, approximately 14,000 and 22,000 shares of Common Stock were issued in exchange for preferred OP Units.
Our Board of Directors has, from time to time, authorized us to repurchase shares of our outstanding capital stock. Currently, we are authorized to repurchase up to a total of approximately 1.9million shares, of which up to 1.9million shares may be Common Stock and up to 1.7million shares may be preferred stock. These repurchases may be made from time to time in the open market or in privately negotiated transactions, subject to applicable law.
19 During the year ended December31, 2003, we accepted approximately 532,000 shares of Common Stock as payment in full of a $25million obligation pursuant to the terms of the settlement agreement associated with the REAL Litigation (as defined and described in Note9 of the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report).
See Note22 of the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report for information on Common Stock repurchased subsequent to the year ended December31, 2003.
Additional information required by this item is presented under the caption "Securities Authorized for Issuance Under Equity Compensation Plans" in the proxy statement for our 2004 annual meeting of stockholders and is incorporated herein by reference.
20 ITEM 6.
Selected Financial Data The following selected financial data is based on our audited historical financial statements. This information should be read in conjunction with such financial statements, including the notes thereto, and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" included herein or in previous filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
For the Year Ended December 31, 2003 2002(1) 2001(1) 2000(1) 1999(1) (dollar amounts in thousands, except per share data) OPERATING DATA: Rental and other property revenues $ 1,445,796 $ 1,292,352 $ 1,123,325 $ 913,554 $ 462,296 Property operating expenses (642,697 ) (515,363 ) (428,400 ) (370,070 ) (185,181 ) Management fees and other income primarily from affiliates 70,487 95,479 149,712 25,725 38,377 Management and other expenses (50,574 ) (64,031 ) (97,439 ) (16,201 ) (14,897 ) Depreciation of rental property (328,379 ) (266,402 ) (302,590 ) (269,631 ) (115,054 ) General and administrative expenses (28,815 ) (30,544 ) (24,930 ) (18,123 ) (15,248 ) Operating income 456,933 498,459 394,303 258,556 155,996 Interest and other income 25,020 77,282 73,915 71,373 56,565 Interest expense (372,746 ) (324,471 ) (280,092 ) (242,391 ) (124,180 ) Deficit distributions to minority partners (22,672 ) (26,979 ) (46,359 ) (24,375 )  Impairment loss on investment in unconsolidated real estate partnerships (4,122 ) (5,540 )    Gain (loss) on dispositions of real estate 3,178 (22,362 ) 17,394 26,335 (1,785 ) Income from continuing operations 70,709 159,951 95,115 84,107 70,830 Income from discontinued operations, net 88,148 9,095 12,237 15,071 6,697 Net income 158,857 169,046 107,352 99,178 77,527 Net income attributable to preferred stockholders 93,565 93,558 90,331 63,183 53,453 Net income attributable to common stockholders 65,292 75,488 17,021 35,995 24,074 OTHER INFORMATION: Total consolidated properties (end of period) 679 728 557 566 373 Total consolidated apartment units (end of period) 174,172 187,506 157,256 153,872 106,148 Total unconsolidated properties (end of period) 441 511 569 683 751 Total unconsolidated apartment units (end of period) 62,823 73,924 91,512 111,748 133,113 Units managed for others (end of period)(2) 50,565 56,722 31,520 60,669 124,201 Earnings (loss) per common sharebasic: Income (loss) from continuing operations (net of preferred dividends) $ (0.25 ) $ 0.77 $ 0.07 $ 0.31 $ 0.28 Net income attributable to common stockholders $ 0.70 $ 0.88 $ 0.23 $ 0.53 $ 0.39 Earnings (loss) per common sharediluted: Income (loss) from continuing operations (net of preferred dividends) $ (0.25 ) $ 0.77 $ 0.06 $ 0.30 $ 0.27 Net income attributable to common stockholders $ 0.70 $ 0.87 $ 0.23 $ 0.52 $ 0.38 Dividends declared per common share $ 2.84 $ 3.28 $ 3.16 $ 2.80 $ 2.50 BALANCE SHEET INFORMATION: Real estate, net of accumulated depreciation $ 8,753,266 $ 8,615,782 $ 6,330,016 $ 5,663,989 $ 3,847,626 Total assets 10,113,362 10,316,601 8,300,672 7,699,874 5,684,951 Total indebtedness 6,197,907 6,021,990 4,420,399 4,068,020 2,556,433 Stockholders' equity 2,860,657 3,163,387 2,710,615 2,501,657 2,259,396 (1) Certain reclassifications have been made to 2002, 2001, 2000, and 1999 amounts to conform to the 2003 presentation. These reclassifications primarily represent presentation changes related to discontinued operations resulting from the 2002 adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No.144. Also, effective January1, 2001, as a result of the REIT Modernization Act permitting REITs to own taxable REIT subsidiaries, we began consolidating our previously unconsolidated taxable REIT subsidiaries. Prior to this date, we did not control such subsidiaries, which were accounted for under the equity method, and as a result, the periods prior to 2001 are not comparable.
(2) In 2003 and 2002, includes approximately 29,000 and 33,000 units, respectively, that were acquired as part of the March2002 acquisition of Casden Properties,Inc., and are asset managed by us only, and not also property managed, although in certain cases we may indirectly own generally less than one percent of the operations of such properties through a partnership syndication or other fund.
21 ITEM 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Executive Overview We are a self-administered and self-managed real estate investment trust, or REIT, engaged in the ownership, acquisition, management and redevelopment of apartment properties. Our property operations are characterized by diversification of product, location and price point. As of December31, 2003, we owned or managed a real estate portfolio of 1,629 apartment properties containing 287,560 units located in 47 states, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico. Our primary sources of income and cash are rents associated with apartment leases.
The key financial indicators that we use in managing our business and in evaluating our financial condition and operating performance are: Funds From Operations, or FFO, less spending for Capital Replacements and Capital Enhancements; same store property operating results; net operating income less spending for Capital Replacements and Capital Enhancements, or Free Cash Flow; financial coverage ratios; and leverage as shown on our balance sheet. These terms are defined and described in the sections captioned "Funds From Operations" and "Capital Expenditures" below. The key macro-economic factors and non-financial indicators that affect our financial condition and operating performance are: rates of job growth; unemployment rates; single-family and multifamily starts; and interest rates.
Because our operating results depend primarily on income from our properties, the supply and demand for apartments substantially influences our results. Additionally, the level of expenses required to operate and maintain our properties and the pace and price at which we redevelop, acquire and dispose of our apartment properties can affect our operating results. Our cost of capital is affected by the conditions in the capital and credit markets and the terms which we negotiate for our equity and debt financings.
We have grown rapidly over the past decade, and during the past three years our growth has moderated. In 2003, the apartment industry continued to face a challenging operating environmentunemployment, job growth at a pace slower than anticipated, low interest rates and an abundant supply of housing alternatives. In addition, we experienced greater difficulty as compared to our peers because our property operating systems and structure were not as effective as our peers in meeting the challenges presented by the apartment markets.
We are adjusting our business strategies to compete successfully in challenging times and to be ready to maximize our opportunities as the economy improves. We are focused on improving our conventional property operations, which are conducted through 15 regional operating centers, or ROCs. This structure provides us with the opportunity to keep decision-making close to the customers we serve and the properties we maintain. We are focused on providing our ROCs with more resources and better systems and reducing employee turnover. We are standardizing numerous processes, including such items as price setting and resident selection. Our focus on resident selection is designed to make our communities more desirable places to live and work, which will result in better financial performance due to higher and more stable occupancy levels, increased pricing power and reduced costs.
We were highly focused throughout 2003 in addressing property operations and those efforts will continue throughout 2004. In addition, we will continue to seek opportunities to reinvest in our properties through redevelopment and to manage our portfolio through property sales and acquisitions.
The following discussion and analysis of the results of our operations and financial condition should be read in conjunction with the financial statements incorporated by reference in Item8 of this Annual Report.
22 Results of Operations Overview 2003 compared to 2002 We recognized net income attributable to common stockholders of $65.3million for the year ended December31, 2003, compared with $75.5million for the year ended December31, 2002, a decrease of $10.2million, or 13.5%. This decrease was principally due to:  a decline in consolidated same store net operating results of 11.6% in 2003 compared to 2002;  higher depreciation and interest expenses due to the acquisition of apartment properties;  lower interest income as a result of a decline in accretion income recognized on general partner notes receivable; and  a decrease in the operations of our investment management business.
These decreases were partially offset by:  an increase in net gain on disposition of real estate (including the gain recognized in discontinued operations and the gain relating to unconsolidated entities) due to property sales;  an increase in net operating income due to the acquisition of apartment properties; and  lower minority interest allocations as a result of lower property operating results.
2002 compared to 2001 We recognized net income attributable to common stockholders of $75.5million for the year ended December31, 2002, compared with $17.0million for the year ended December31, 2001, an increase of $58.5million. This increase was principally due to:  an increase in net operating income due to the acquisition of apartment properties;  lower depreciation expense due to a change in estimate related to the useful lives of real estate assets;  higher equity in earnings in our unconsolidated real estate partnerships due to a change in estimate related to the useful lives of real estate assets;  lower minority interest allocations as a result of lower property operating results;  a decrease in deficit distributions to minority partners; and  a reduction in amortization of intangibles.
These increases were partially offset by:  an increase in loss on disposition of real estate (including the loss recognized in discontinued operations and the loss relating to unconsolidated entities) due primarily to a 2002 change in estimate associated with historical estimated gain or loss on the sale of properties and the sale of certain senior living facilities in 2002;  a decline in consolidated same store net operating results of 6.5% in 2002 compared to 2001;  higher depreciation and interest expenses due to the acquisition of apartment properties; and  a decrease in the operations of our investment management business.
The following paragraphs discuss these and other items affecting our results of operations in more detail.
23 Rental Property Operations Our net income is primarily generated from the operations of our consolidated properties. The principal components within our total consolidated property operations are as follows: Consolidated same store properties consist of all conventional properties that were owned, stabilized and consolidated for all periods presented.
Acquisition Properties consist of all consolidated properties that were owned less than three years as of the end of the most recent year. For purposes of this discussion, acquisition properties are principally comprised of: three properties directly purchased in 2003; those properties acquired in the March2002 acquisition of Casden Properties,Inc. and certain related transactions, which we refer to collectively, as the Casden Merger; those properties acquired in the August2002 acquisition of New England area properties, which we refer to as the New England Properties Acquisition; two properties directly purchased in 2002 and three properties directly purchased in 2001.
Newly Consolidated Properties consist of all properties consolidated for less than three years as of the end of the most recent year. These properties had been previously unconsolidated and accounted for by the equity method. For purposes of this discussion, newly consolidated properties include 10 properties that were first consolidated in 2003, 78 properties that were first consolidated in 2002 and five properties that were first consolidated in 2001.
Affordable properties consist of all affordable properties (which are properties that benefit from governmental programs designed to provide housing for people with low or moderate incomes) that were owned, stabilized and consolidated for all periods presented.
Redevelopment properties consist of all consolidated properties where (i)a substantial number of available units have been vacated for major renovations and have not been stabilized for at least one year as of the earliest period presented, or (ii)other significant renovation (such as exteriors, common areas or unit improvements (on lease expirations)) is underway or has been complete for less than one year as of the earliest period presented. In both cases, the properties have been removed from same store properties.
Other properties consist of all consolidated properties that are not included in the above categories and in some cases are not multifamily properties (such as commercial properties and retail space).
Partnership expenses consist of expenses incurred at the partnership level either directly or indirectly (such as partnership audit, tax and legal expenses).
Property management expenses consist of off-site expenses associated with the self-management of consolidated properties.
The following table summarizes the overall performance of our consolidated properties for the years ended December31, 2003, 2002 and 2001 (in thousands): Year Ended December 31, 2003 2002 2001 Rental and other property revenues $ 1,445,796 $ 1,292,352 $ 1,123,325 Property operating expenses 642,697 515,363 428,400 Net operating income $ 803,099 $ 776,989 $ 694,925 24 The following table shows the components of consolidated property net operating income for the years ended December31, 2003, 2002 and 2001 (in thousands): Year Ended December 31, 2003 2002 2001 Consolidated same store properties $ 565,721 $ 640,066 $ 684,456 Acquisition properties 139,429 94,789 2,171 Newly consolidated properties 95,458 42,837 4,140 Affordable properties 7,777 7,292 8,977 Redevelopment properties 15,733 14,578 20,231 Other properties 4,641 2,983 4,141 Partnership expenses (9,993 ) (9,614 ) (8,147 ) Property management expenses (18,946 ) (15,942 ) (21,044 ) Other 3,279   Total $ 803,099 $ 776,989 $ 694,925 During 2003 as compared to 2002, net operating income for our consolidated property operations increased by $26.1million, or 3.4%. This increase was principally due to $52.6million and $44.6million related to operations of newly consolidated properties and operations of acquisition properties, respectively. This was offset by a $74.3million, or 11.6%, decrease in consolidated same store net operating income. See further discussion of same store results under the heading "Conventional Same Store Property Operating Results." During 2002 as compared to 2001, net operating income for our consolidated property operations increased by $82.1million, or 11.8%. This increase was principally due to $92.6million and $38.7million related to operations of acquisition properties and operations of newly consolidated properties, respectively. This was offset by a $44.4million, or 6.5%, decrease in consolidated same store net operating income. See further discussion of same store results under the heading "Conventional Same Store Property Operating Results." Conventional Same Store Property Operating Results Same store operating results is a key indicator we use to assess the performance of our property operations and to understand the period over period operations of a consistent portfolio of properties. We define "same store" properties as conventional properties in which our ownership interest exceeds 10% and the operations of which are stabilized for all periods presented. To ensure comparability, the information for all periods shown is based on current period ownership. The following table summarizes the unaudited conventional rental property operations on a "same store" basis (which is not in accordance with GAAP) and reconciles them to "consolidated same store" operations, a 25 component of consolidated rental property operations (which is in accordance with GAAP) described in the above comparative discussions (dollars in thousands): Year Ended December 31, 2003 2002 2001 Our share of same store revenues $ 1,038,942 $ 1,075,810 $ 1,098,089 Our share of same store expense 441,179 401,530 384,246 Our share of same store net operating income $ 597,763 $ 674,280 $ 713,843 Minority partners' share of same store net operating income 56,610 65,296 71,762 Our share of unconsolidated same store net operating income (25,690 ) (28,022 ) (97,661 ) Newly consolidated properties (62,962 ) (71,488 ) (3,488 ) Consolidated same store component of net operating income $ 565,721 $ 640,066 $ 684,456 Same Store Statistics Properties 553 553 553 Apartment units 154,324 154,324 154,324 Average physical occupancy 91.8 % 92.6 % 93.5 % Average rent collected/unit/month $ 687 $ 703 $ 703 For the year ended December31, 2003, compared to the year ended December31, 2002, our share of same store net operating income decreased $76.5million, or 11.3%. Revenues decreased $36.9million, or 3.4%, primarily due to lower average rent (down $16 per unit), lower occupancy (down 0.8%), and increased bad debt. Expenses increased by $39.6million, or 9.9%, primarily due to: an increase of $12.5million in turnover, marketing and administrative costs in 2003 related to focused efforts to improve property appearance and the condition of units ready to be occupied; $8.8million in contract services and repairs and maintenance primarily driven by seasonal factors such as landscaping and snow removal due to more severe winter conditions in 2003 than in 2002; $6.7million in utilities due to the increase in the cost of natural gas, electric, water and sewer; and $4.0million in property hazard insurance due to increased casualty losses.
For the year ended December31, 2002, compared to the year ended December31, 2001, our share of same store net operating income decreased $39.6million, or 5.5%. Revenues decreased $22.3million, or 2.0%, primarily due to lower occupancy (down 0.9%), and increased bad debt. Expenses increased by $17.3million, or 4.5%, primarily due to: an increase of $4.8million in property taxes; $3.8million in insurance expense, as the cost of property hazard insurance coverage rose in March2002; and $5.4million in contract services and repairs and maintenance. These increases were somewhat offset by reductions in utilities.
Investment Management Business We earn income from our consolidated investment management business primarily from unconsolidated real estate partnerships for which we are the general partner. The income is primarily in the form of fees generated through property and asset management. Asset management involves the financial management of properties, as opposed to the day-to-day property operations, and results in fees from a variety of transactions including refinancing fees, developer fees and syndication fees. These transactions occur on varying timetables and thus the income generated may vary from period to period. Our revenue from the investment management business decreases as we increase our ownership of properties and the income generated is therefore eliminated in consolidation. We expect this trend to continue as we increase our ownership in more of these partnerships or otherwise determine that consolidation is required by GAAP. Offsetting the revenue earned in the investment management business are the expenses associated with property and asset management, as well as expenses related to our risk management and other insurance programs.
26 The following table summarizes the overall performance of our consolidated investment management business for the years ended December31, 2003, 2002 and 2001 (in thousands): Year Ended December 31, 2003 2002 2001 Management fees and other income primarily from affiliates $ 70,487 $ 95,479 $ 149,712 Management and other expenses 50,574 64,031 97,439 Net income from investment management business $ 19,913 $ 31,448 $ 52,273 During 2003 as compared to 2002, income from investment management business decreased by $11.5million, or 36.7%. This decrease was principally a result of the following:  $16.0million due to an increase in consolidated real estate partnerships, which required additional elimination of fee income and associated property operating expense related to such partnerships;  $8.0million due to increased consulting fees associated with the implementation of site level software and legal fees; and  $3.2million related to insurance, of which $7.5million was related to an increase in general liability, worker's compensation and director and officer insurance premium expenses offset by $4.3million of a reduction in casualty losses in the property hazard program.
These decreases were partially offset by:  $4.6million of increased activity based fees related to syndication, acquisition and deferred asset management fees from transactions closed in 2003; and  $15.1million due to income tax benefits including: $8.0million of an income tax valuation reserve reversal in first quarter 2003 (see Note10 of the consolidated financial statements in Item8 of this Annual Report); and $7.1million of an income tax benefit resulting from losses recorded at our taxable REIT subsidiaries.
During 2002 as compared to 2001, income from the investment management business decreased by $20.8million, or 39.8%. This decrease was principally a result of the following:  $13.2million of reduced fees billed for construction management services in 2002. We calculated and billed these fees to the real estate partnerships based on a percentage of volume of construction activities. In addition, lower costs were incurred and therefore lower billings occurred as a result of the ongoing management initiative to contain costs;  $7.3million due to an increase in insurance costs in the property hazard program. These increased costs were the result of increased reserves due to historical casualty losses from prior years;  $5.5million due to an increase in consolidated real estate partnerships, which required additional elimination of fee income and associated property operating expense related to such real estate partnerships;  $4.5million due to a net reduction in fees including: $6.9million decrease in refinancing and disposition fees, due to decreased refinancing transactions (28 in 2002 compared to 59 in 2001) resulting in lower fees earned; and a $7.7million decrease in fees earned for services provided to third parties due to a planned reduction in third party asset management. These decreases were offset by a $10.1million increase in asset management and developer fees related to the 2002 acquisition of National Partnership Investments Corp. as part of the Casden Merger.
27 These decreases were partially offset by $9.3million of lower compensation and health insurance expense resulting from a change in plan administrator and a reduction in work force, in part due to a planned reduction in third party property management and management cost reduction initiatives.
Depreciation of Rental Property For the year ended December31, 2003, as compared to the year ended December31, 2002, depreciation of rental property increased $62.0million, or 23.3%. This increase was principally due to $23.4million and $23.5million of additional depreciation related to the acquisition properties and the newly consolidated properties, respectively, as well as $12.3million of additional depreciation related to new capital spending on same store properties.
For the year ended December31, 2002, as compared to the year ended December31, 2001, depreciation of rental property decreased $36.2million, or 12.0%. This decrease was principally due to a $69.0million decrease related to the change in useful lives of assets made in 2001. During 2001, we completed a comprehensive review of our real estate related depreciation. As a result of this review, we changed our estimate of the remaining useful lives for our buildings. We believe the change better reflects the remaining useful lives of the assets and is consistent with prevailing industry practice. This change in useful lives increased net income by approximately $74.3million, net of minority interest, in 2002 over 2001, of which a portion was recognized as an increase to equity in earnings of unconsolidated real estate partnerships. The recognition of this change in useful lives resulted in an increase in basic and diluted earnings per share of $0.87 and $0.86, respectively, for the year ended December31, 2002.
This decrease was partially offset by additional depreciation related to the acquisition properties and the newly consolidated properties of $24.0million and $11.8million, respectively.
Amortization of Intangibles For the year ended December31, 2003, as compared to the year ended December31, 2002, amortization of intangibles increased $2.7million, or 66.5%. This increase was principally a result of additional amortization recognized due to the termination of certain management contracts acquired in the Casden Merger.
For the year ended December31, 2002, as compared to the year ended December31, 2001, amortization of intangibles decreased $14.7million, or 78.5%. Of the total decrease, $6.8million was due to property management and asset management contract intangibles that were fully amortized in 2001, and $7.9million was attributable to the elimination of goodwill amortization in accordance with the adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No.142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets .
Provision for Losses on Accounts, Fees and Notes Receivable For the year ended December31, 2003, as compared to the year ended December31, 2002, provision for losses on accounts, fees and notes receivable decreased $6.8million, or 75.8%. For the year ended December31, 2002 as compared to the year ended December31, 2001, provision for losses on accounts, fees and notes receivable increased $2.4million, or 35.5%.
In 2001, the entire provision of $6.6million related to additional allowance for possible losses on accounts, fees and other contingencies. In 2002, the entire provision of $9.0million related to provision for losses on notes receivable, which provision was determined based on our review in 2002 of the collectibility of each loan made to affiliated partnerships within our loan receivable portfolio. In 2003, we recorded a $2.2million provision for losses on notes receivable. We continue to monitor these loans 28 and assess the collectibility of each loan on a periodic basis and may record a provision due to changes in the market environment that affect operating cash flows.
Interest Expense For the year ended December31, 2003, as compared to the year ended December31, 2002, interest expense, which includes the amortization of deferred financing costs, increased $48.3million, or 14.9%. This increase was principally due to $26.6million and $21.3million of additional interest on the debt related to the newly consolidated properties and the acquisition properties, respectively.
For the year ended December31, 2002, as compared to the year ended December31, 2001, interest expense, which includes the amortization of deferred financing costs, increased $44.4million, or 15.8%. This increase was principally due to $34.8million and $16.4million of additional interest on the debt related to the acquisition properties and the newly consolidated properties, respectively. This increase was partially offset by a $10.9million reduction related to an overall decrease in variable interest rates of approximately 1.5% from the prior year.
Interest and Other Income A component of interest and other income is our accretion income on general partner notes receivable. Transactions that result in accretion occur on varying timetables and thus the income generated may vary from period to period.
For the year ended December31, 2003, as compared to the year ended December31, 2002, interest and other income decreased $52.3million, or 67.6%. This decrease was principally a result of: $33.5million in reduced accretion income; $11.1million in lower interest due from general partner notes receivable, resulting from the consolidation of real estate partnerships, and therefore the elimination of interest income, as well as the collection of outstanding notes receivable; and $7.7million related to gain recognized in second quarter 2002 on the sale of certain tax-exempt bonds.
For the year ended December31, 2002, as compared to the year ended December31, 2001, interest and other income increased $3.4million, or 4.6%. This increase was principally a result of $26.9million in increased accretion income. This increase was offset by $18.4million of a decrease related to a lower gain recognized on certain tax-exempt bonds that were sold in 2002 as compared to certain tax-exempt bonds sold in 2001. In addition there was a $3.8million decrease related to lower interest on money market and interest bearing accounts, as interest rates on deposit accounts had decreased approximately 1.5% from the prior year, while the average cash balances outstanding for both periods remained consistent.
Equity in Earnings (Losses) of Unconsolidated Real Estate Partnerships For the year ended December31, 2003, as compared to the year ended December31, 2002, equity in losses of unconsolidated real estate partnerships increased $7.1million. This increase was principally the result of the purchase of equity interests in unconsolidated real estate partnerships that resulted in these properties becoming consolidated. Such real estate partnerships owned better performing properties that are now contributing to consolidated rental revenues and expenses. In addition, the remaining properties within unconsolidated real estate partnerships had decreased earnings driven by lower property operating results in 2003 than in 2002.
For the year ended December31, 2002, as compared with the year ended December31, 2001, equity in earnings of unconsolidated real estate partnerships increased $17.4million. This increase was principally due to the change in estimate of useful lives of the underlying real estate assets completed by us in 2001, which resulted in lower depreciation expense of approximately $16.0million. See the 29 previous discussion on the change in estimate of useful lives of assets under the heading "Depreciation of Rental Property." Deficit Distributions to Minority Partners When real estate partnerships consolidated in our financial statements make cash distributions to partners in excess of their minority interest balances, we record a charge equal to the minority partners' excess of distribution over their minority interest balances, even though there is no economic effect or cost.
For the year ended December31, 2003, as compared to the year ended December31, 2002, deficit distributions to minority partners decreased $4.3million, or 16.0%. For the year ended December31, 2002, as compared to the year ended December31, 2001, deficit distributions to minority partners decreased $19.4million. Each of these decreases were due to reduced levels of distributions being made by the consolidated real estate partnerships as a result of lower refinancing activity, and decreased operating results, as well as our increased ownership of such partnerships.
Gain (Loss) on Dispositions of Real Estate For the year ended December31, 2003, as compared to the year ended December31, 2002, gain on dispositions of real estate increased $25.5million. In 2002, gain (loss) on dispositions of real estate included a loss of approximately $28.0million that resulted primarily from a change in estimate due to better insight into information related to the finalization of the recording of purchase price accounting to appropriate entities acquired in past acquisitions and the related historical estimation process in determining the carrying value of assets sold. The recognition of this amount in 2002 was considered to be a change in estimate associated with the historical estimated gain or loss on the sale of these properties. The recognition of this change in estimate resulted in a decrease in basic and diluted earnings per share of $0.28 for the year ended December31, 2002.
For the year ended December31, 2002 as compared to the year ended December31, 2001, gain on dispositions of real estate decreased $39.8million. Effective January1, 2002, we adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No.144 , Accounting for the Impairment of Long-Lived Assets to be Disposed Of , or SFAS144. Pursuant to SFAS144 we now report as discontinued operations assets held for sale (as defined by SFAS144) and assets sold in the current period (see below discussion). As a result of SFAS144, for the year ended December31, 2002, gain (loss) on dispositions of real estate does not include any gain or loss associated with the disposal of consolidated properties that were classified as discontinued operations during 2002. For 2001, however, gain (loss) on dispositions of real estate included gain or loss associated with the disposal of all properties sold.
The properties sold in all periods, as well as the properties held for sale, were considered by management to be inconsistent with our long-term investment strategy. Gain (loss) on properties sold was determined on a property by property basis and are not entirely comparable year over year due to individual property differences.
Minority Interest in Consolidated Real Estate Partnerships For the year ended December31, 2003, as compared to the year ended December31, 2002, minority interest in consolidated real estate partnerships decreased $12.5million. For the year ended December31, 2002, as compared to the year ended December31, 2001, minority interest in consolidated real estate partnerships decreased $22.3million. Both of these decreases were principally a result of decreased earnings caused by lower property operating results than in the prior year and our purchase of additional interests in consolidated real estate partnerships, thereby reducing the minority interest allocation.
30 Discontinued Operations For properties accounted for under SFAS144, the results of operations for properties sold during the period or designated as held for sale at the end of the period are required to be classified as discontinued operations. The property-specific components of net earnings that are classified as discontinued operations include all property-related revenues and operating expenses, depreciation expense recognized prior to the classification as held for sale, property-specific interest expense to the extent there is secured debt on the property and the associated minority interest. In addition, any impairments on assets held for sale, and the net gain on the eventual disposal of properties held for sale is reported as discontinued operations.
For the years ended December31, 2003, 2002, and 2001, income from discontinued operations totaled $88.1million, $9.1million and $12.2million, respectively, which includes income from operations of $7.9million, $23.2million and $15.5million, respectively. In 2003, the income from operations included 82properties that were sold or classified as held for sale during 2003. In 2002, and 2001, the income from operations included 124properties that were sold or classified as held for sale in 2002 and 2003. Due to varying number of properties and the timing of sales, the income from operations is not comparable year to year.
During 2003, we sold 72properties, resulting in a net gain on sale of approximately $89.7million (which is net of $12.1million of related taxes). Additionally, we recognized $9.0million in impairment loss on assets sold or held for sale in 2003. During 2002, we sold 42properties, resulting in a net loss on sale of approximately $8.5million (including $2.5million of related taxes). Additionally, we recognized $2.9million in impairments on assets sold or held for sale in 2002. There were no gains or losses on assets sold in 2001 included in discontinued operations for the year ended December31, 2001.
Gains (losses) on properties sold are determined on a property-by-property basis and are not comparable year over year due to individual property differences. We considered the properties sold, as well as the properties classified as held for sale, to be inconsistent with our long-term investment strategy. See Note15 of the consolidated financial statements in Item8 of this Annual Report for more details on discontinued operations.
Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates We prepare our consolidated financial statements in accordance with GAAP, which requires us to make estimates and assumptions. We believe that the following critical accounting policies involve our more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements.
Impairment of Long-Lived Assets Real estate and other long-lived assets are recorded at cost, less accumulated depreciation, unless considered impaired. If events or circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of a property may be impaired, we make an assessment of its recoverability by estimating the undiscounted future cash flows, excluding interest charges, of the property. If the carrying amount exceeds the aggregate undiscounted future cash flows, we recognize an impairment loss to the extent the carrying amount exceeds the estimated fair value of the property.
Real estate investments are subject to varying degrees of risk. Several factors may adversely affect the economic performance and value of our real estate investments. These factors include:  the general economic climate;  competition from other apartment communities and other housing options; 31  local conditions, such as an increase in unemployment or an increase in the supply of apartments, that might adversely affect apartment occupancy or rental rates;  changes in governmental regulations and the related cost of compliance;  increases in operating costs (including real estate taxes) due to inflation and other factors, which may not necessarily be offset by increased rents;  changes in tax laws and housing laws, including the enactment of rent control laws or other laws regulating multifamily housing;  changes in market capitalization rates; and  the relative illiquidity of such investments.
Any adverse changes in these factors could cause an impairment in our long-lived assets, including real estate, goodwill and investments in unconsolidated real estate partnerships.
Notes Receivable and Interest Income Recognition We generally recognize interest income earned from our investments in notes receivable when the collectibility of such amounts is both probable and reasonably estimable. The notes receivable were either extended by us and are carried at the face amount plus accrued interest, which we refer to as par value notes, or were made by predecessors whose positions we acquired usually at a discount, which we refer to as discounted notes.
On a periodic basis we assess the collectibility or impairment of each note. Under the cost recovery method, we carry the discounted notes at the acquisition amount, less subsequent cash collections, until such time as collectibility of principal and interest is probable and the timing and amounts are reasonably estimable. Based upon closed or pending transactions (which include sales, refinancings, foreclosures and rights offerings), we have determined that certain notes are collectible for amounts greater than their carrying value. Accordingly, we recognize accretion income on a prospective basis over the estimated remaining life of the loans, as the difference between the carrying value of the discounted notes and the estimated collectible value. For the year ended December31, 2003, if we had not been able to complete certain transactions, our accretion income would have decreased by $3.3million ($0.03million per basic and diluted share). Accretion income recognized in any given period is based on our ability to complete transactions to monetize the notes receivable and the difference between the carrying value and the estimated collectible value of the notes; therefore, accretion income varies on a period by period basis and could be lower or higher than in prior periods.
Allowance for Losses on Notes Receivable We estimate the collectibility of notes receivable by assessing the likelihood of ultimate realization of these receivables. We establish an allowance for losses on notes receivable based on an evaluation of a variety of factors, such as: an amount that is adequate to absorb losses in the existing portfolio; an evaluation of the risk inherent in the portfolio, including the current credit-worthiness of each borrower; the composition of the portfolio, including specific impaired notes receivable; current economic conditions; full realizable value or the fair value of the underlying collateral; economic conditions; historical loss experience; our estimate of probable credit losses and other factors. During the years ended December31, 2003 and 2002, we identified and recorded $2.2million and $9.0million in losses on notes receivable, respectively. We will continue to monitor and assess these notes, and we may make changes in required reserves in the future due to changes in the market environment.
32 Capitalized Costs We capitalize direct and indirect costs (including salaries, interest, real estate taxes and other costs) incurred in connection with redevelopment, initial capital expenditures, disposition capital expenditures, Capital Enhancement and Capital Replacement activities. We charge to expense as incurred indirect costs that do not relate to the above activities, including general and administrative expenses. The amounts capitalized depend on the volume, timing and costs of such activities. As a result, changes in volume, timing and costs of such activities may have a significant effect on our financial results if the costs being capitalized are not proportionately increased or reduced, as the case may be. Based on the level of capital spending during 2003, if capital activities had increased or decreased during the year by 10%, we could have had additional or lower, respectively, income before minority interest of $6.3million. See further discussion under the heading "Capital Expenditures." Funds From Operations Funds From Operations, or FFO, is a non-GAAP financial measure that we believe, when considered with the financial data determined in accordance with GAAP, is helpful to investors in understanding our performance because it captures features particular to real estate performance by recognizing that real estate generally appreciates over time or maintains residual value to a much greater extent than do other depreciable assets such as machinery, computers or other personal property. The Board of Governors of the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts, or NAREIT defines FFO as net income (loss), computed in accordance with GAAP, excluding gains and losses from extraordinary items, gains on dispositions of depreciable real estate, gains on dispositions of real estate from discontinued operations, net of related income taxes, plus real estate related depreciation and amortization (excluding amortization of financing costs), including depreciation for unconsolidated real estate partnerships, joint ventures and discontinued operations. We calculate FFO based on the NAREIT definition, as further adjusted for amortization of intangibles and deficit distributions to minority partners. We calculate FFO (diluted) by subtracting redemption related preferred stock issuance costs and dividends on preferred stock, adding back dividends/distributions on dilutive preferred securities and adding back the interest expense on dilutive mandatorily redeemable convertible preferred securities. FFO should not be considered an alternative to net income or net cash flows from operating activities, as calculated in accordance with GAAP, as an indication of our performance or as a measure of liquidity. FFO is not necessarily indicative of cash available to fund future cash needs. In addition, although FFO is a measure used for comparability in assessing the performance of real estate investment trusts, there can be no assurance that our basis for computing FFO is comparable with that of other real estate investment trusts.
33 For the years ended December31, 2003, 2002 and 2001, our FFO is calculated as follows (amounts in thousands): 2003 2002 2001 Net income attributable to common stockholders(1) $ 65,292 $ 75,488 $ 17,021 Adjustments: Depreciation on rental property, net of minority partners' interest(2) 298,255 241,325 295,113 Depreciation on rental property related to unconsolidated entities 25,817 33,549 57,506 (Gain) loss on dispositions of real estate (3,178 ) 22,362 (17,394 ) Deficit distributions to minority partners 22,672 26,979 46,359 Amortization of intangibles 6,702 4,026 18,729 Income tax arising from disposals   3,202 Gain on disposition of land   3,843 Discontinued operations: Depreciation on rental property, net of minority partners' interest 14,906 29,580 37,936 (Gain) loss on dispositions of real estate, net of minority partners' interest (101,849 ) 6,021  Deficit distributions to minority partners (10,718 ) 1,321 1,342 Income tax arising from disposals 12,134 2,507  Minority interest in Aimco Operating Partnership's share of above adjustments (29,910 ) (44,500 ) (58,883 ) Preferred stock dividends 85,920 93,558 90,331 Redemption related preferred stock issuance costs 7,645   Funds From Operations $ 393,688 $ 492,216 $ 495,105 Preferred stock dividends (85,920 ) (93,558 ) (90,331 ) Redemption related preferred stock issuance costs (7,645 )   Dividends/distributions on dilutive preferred securities 11,330 38,091 64,389 Interest expense on mandatorily redeemable convertible preferred securities 987 1,161 1,568 Funds From Operations attributable to common stockholdersdiluted $ 312,440 $ 437,910 $ 470,731 Weighted average number of common shares, common share equivalents and dilutive preferred securities outstanding: Common shares and equivalents(3) 92,968 86,773 73,648 Dilutive preferred securities 3,639 9,588 16,790 Total 96,607 96,361 90,438 Cash flow provided by operating activities $ 430,258 $ 497,289 $ 494,457 Cash flow provided by (used in) investing activities 311,904 (786,377 ) (132,010 ) Cash flow (used in) provided by financing activities (727,283 ) 308,641 (439,562 ) Notes: (1) Represents our numerator for earnings per common share calculated in accordance with GAAP (2) "Minority partners' interest," as referenced on this line item and others in this presentation means minority interest in Aimco's consolidated real estate partnerships (3) Represents our denominator for earnings per common sharediluted calculated in accordance with GAAP Liquidity and Capital Resources Liquidity is the ability to meet present and future financial obligations either through the sale or maturity of existing assets or by the acquisition of additional funds through working capital management. Both the coordination of asset and liability maturities and effective working capital management are important to the maintenance of liquidity. Our primary source of liquidity is cash flow from our operations. Additional sources are proceeds from property sales and proceeds from refinancings of existing mortgage loans and borrowings under new mortgage loans.
Our principal uses for liquidity include normal operating activities, payments of principal and interest on outstanding debt, capital expenditures, dividends paid to stockholders and distributions paid to partners, and acquisitions of, and investments in, properties. We use our cash provided by operating activities to meet short-term liquidity needs. In the event that the cash provided by operating activities no longer covers our short-term liquidity demands, we have additional means, such as short-term borrowing availability, proceeds from property sales and refinancings, to help us meet our short-term 34 liquidity demands. We use the Revolver (described below) for general corporate purposes and to fund investments on an interim basis. We expect to meet our long-term liquidity requirements, such as debt maturities and property acquisitions, through long-term borrowings, both secured and unsecured, the issuance of debt or equity securities (including OP Units), the sale of properties and cash generated from operations.
At December31, 2003, we had $114.4million in cash and cash equivalents (including $16.3million of cash and cash equivalents that is included within Assets Held for Sale), an increase of $14.9million from December31, 2002, which cash is principally from sales and refinancing transactions that has yet to be distributed or applied to the outstanding balance on the Revolver. At December31, 2003, we had $254.6million of restricted cash (including $8.8million of restricted cash that is included within Assets Held for Sale), primarily consisting of reserves and escrows held by lenders for bond sinking funds, capital expenditures, property taxes and insurance. In addition, cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash are held by partnerships that are not presented on a consolidated basis. The following discussion relates to changes in cash due to operating, investing and financing activities, which are presented in our Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows in Item 8 of this Annual Report.
Operating Activities For the year ended December31, 2003, our net cash provided by operating activities of $430.3million was primarily due to operating income from our consolidated properties, which is determined by rental rates, occupancy levels and operating expenses related to our portfolio of properties. This was a decrease of $67million as compared to the year ended December31, 2002, driven by lower property operating results. We intend for our net cash from operating activities to fund dividends paid to stockholders.
Investing Activities For the year ended December31, 2003, our net cash provided by investing activities of $311.9million was primarily from proceeds received from sales of properties, offset by investments in our existing real estate assets through capital expenditures and redevelopment (see further discussion on capital expenditures under the heading "Capital Expenditures").
Although we hold all of our properties for investment, we sell properties when they do not meet our investment criteria or are located in areas that we believe do not justify our continued investment, in both cases, as compared to alternative uses for our capital. In the year ended December31, 2003, we sold 72 consolidated properties, one consolidated land parcel, and 37 unconsolidated properties. These were sold for an aggregate sales price of $939.0million, of which $697.6million related to the consolidated properties and land parcel. Our share of the total net proceeds, after repayment of existing debt, payment of transaction costs and distributions to limited partners, was $309.6million, of which $9.6million related to the unconsolidated properties, which proceeds were included in our distributions received from investments in unconsolidated real estate partnerships. These proceeds were used to repay a portion of our outstanding short-term indebtedness, redeem preferred securities, and for other corporate purposes.
We are currently marketing for sale certain real estate properties that are inconsistent with our long-term investment strategy. Proceeds from 2004 dispositions are expected to be slightly below the levels of 2003, and we plan to use such proceeds to reduce debt, redeem preferred securities, fund capital expenditures on existing assets, fund property and partnership acquisitions, and for other operating needs and corporate purposes.
35 Financing Activities For the year ended December31, 2003, net cash used in financing activities of $727.3million related primarily to payments on our secured notes payable, payment of our dividends and redemptions of preferred stock. These were offset by contributions from minority interest related to our equity financing transaction with GE Real Estate in the form of a joint venture, proceeds from the issuance of ClassS Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock, which we refer to as the ClassS Preferred Stock, and ClassT Cumulative Preferred Stock, which we refer to as the ClassT Preferred Stock, proceeds from mortgage refinancings and borrowings under a newly established Term Loan (see notes to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report for further details on these activities).
Mortgage Debt During the year ended December31, 2003, we refinanced or closed mortgage loans on 60 consolidated properties generating $440.3million of proceeds from borrowings with a weighted average interest rate of 4.13%. Our net proceeds after repayment of existing debt, payment of transaction costs and distributions to limited partners, was $132.5million. In addition, we closed mortgage loans on 32 unconsolidated properties, with a weighted average interest rate of 4.38%, for net proceeds of $13.0million, which proceeds are included in our distributions received from investments in unconsolidated real estate partnerships, within investing activities. Our total net proceeds from these loans of $145.5million was used to repay existing short-term debt and for other corporate purposes. In 2004 we intend to continue to refinance mortgage debt to generate proceeds in amounts exceeding our scheduled amortizations and maturities.
Revolving Credit Facility and Term Loans We have an outstanding revolving credit facility, which we refer to as the Revolver, with a syndicate of financial institutions having aggregate lending commitments of $500million, of which $445million has been syndicated. At December31, 2003, the Revolver had an outstanding principal balance of $81.0million and an interest rate of 4.00% based on weighted average LIBOR contracts outstanding with various maturities plus 2.85%. The Revolver matures in July2005. The amount available under the Revolver at December31, 2003 was $348million (less $22.4million outstanding for letters for credit). The maximum amount available for borrowing under the Revolver fluctuates based on established criteria defined therein and is typically the $445million that has been syndicated.
In May2003, we borrowed $250million through a syndicated term loan, which we refer to as the Term Loan. We used proceeds of this borrowing to pay down the Revolver. The Term Loan matures in May2008 and is repayable at our option at any time without penalty. At December31, 2003, the Term Loan had an outstanding principal balance of $250million and an interest rate of 3.89% (based on a designated LIBOR rate plus 2.85%). All financial covenant requirements of the Term Loan are the same as the Revolver and the term loan we entered into with a syndicate of financial institutions in connection with the Casden Merger in March2002, which we refer to as the Casden Loan. At December31, 2003, the Casden Loan had an outstanding principal balance of $104.4million and an interest rate of 3.98% (based on a designated LIBOR rate plus 2.85%). The Casden Loan matures in March2004, however, subsequent to December31, 2003, we extended the maturity of the Casden Loan to March2005. (See Note8 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report for further details on the Revolver, Term Loan and Casden Loan).
Equity Transactions In April2003, we issued $100million of newly created variable rate ClassS Preferred Stock. The initial dividend rate on the ClassS Preferred Stock is based on three month LIBOR plus 2.75% and 36 then from April30, 2004 through October31, 2004 increases to the three-month LIBOR plus 6.0%, with additional increases thereafter. In July2003, we issued $150million of newly created 8.00% ClassT Preferred Stock. With proceeds from these issuances we redeemed $240million of outstanding preferred securities in 2003.
As of December31, 2003, we had approximately $250million of debt and equity available and the Aimco Operating Partnership had $500million of debt available on our shelf registration statement declared effective in 2001. (See Notes 12 and 13 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report for further details on the shelf registration statement and preferred securities.) We intend to continue to issue preferred securities in both public and private offerings to generate proceeds that we will use to redeem higher cost preferred securities, to finance acquisitions of real estate interests and for other corporate purposes.
In December2003 we entered into an equity financing with GE Real Estate in the form of a joint venture, which we refer to the as the GE JV. At closing, we contributed to the GE JV 33 of our apartment properties with a total of 9,534 units and GE Real Estate contributed cash of which we received approximately $107million before transaction costs and funding of reserves. (See Note3 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report for further details on the GE JV.) Our Board of Directors has, from time to time, authorized us to repurchase shares of Common Stock and our preferred stock. Currently, we are authorized to repurchase up to a total of approximately 1.9million shares, of which up to 1.9million shares may be Common Stock and up to 1.7million shares may be preferred stock. These repurchases may be made from time to time in the open market or in privately negotiated transactions, subject to applicable law. During the year ended December31, 2003, we repurchased no shares of our Common Stock or our preferred stock. See Note22 of the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report for information on Common Stock repurchased subsequent to the year ended December31, 2003.
In November2003, our Board of Directors reduced the quarterly cash dividend to align the amount of the dividend with our current level of operating profitability. The dividend paid in February2004 of $0.60 per share represents a distribution of 103% of diluted Adjusted Funds From Operations, which we refer to as AFFO, (before deducting Capital Enhancements) and 83% of diluted FFO for the quarter ended December31, 2003. (See Note18 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report for the definition of AFFO).
Capital Expenditures For the year ended December31, 2003, we spent a total of $86.7million on Capital Replacements (expenditures required to maintain the related asset) and $2.6million on Capital Enhancements (expenditures that add a new feature or revenue source at a property). These amounts represent our share of the total spending on both consolidated and unconsolidated partnerships.
Capital Replacements spending increased slightly over prior periods due to a general increase in spending to maintain our assets. In addition to Capital Replacements, we account for Capital Enhancements, which we distinguish from Capital Replacements. Capital Enhancements are costs incurred to add additional rental square footage or a new revenue producing feature. For example, replacement of existing kitchen appliances is a Capital Replacement, however, if the same replacements are done in connection with an extensive remodeling project that is expected to generate higher rents, then they are characterized as a Capital Enhancement. Because the distinction between Capital Replacements and Capital Enhancements is not consistently applied across REITs and because there is a risk of partial substitution between Capital Replacements and Capital Enhancements, we account for and report both Capital Replacements and Capital Enhancements and deduct both in our calculation of 37 AFFO (see Note18 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report for the definition of AFFO).
The table below details our actual spending on Capital Replacements and Capital Enhancements based on a per unit and total dollar basis (based on approximately 154,000 ownership equivalent units) for the year ended December31, 2003 and reconciles it to our Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows in Item 8 of this Annual Report for the same period (in thousands, except per unit data).
Capital Replacements Actual Cost Per Unit Capital Enhancements Actual Cost Per Unit Total Cost Per Unit Capital Replacements Actual Cost Capital Enhancements Actual Cost Total Cost Carpets $ 117 $  $ 117 $ 17,994 $ 17 $ 18,011 Flooring 32  32 4,952  4,952 Appliances 34 2 36 5,296 236 5,532 Blinds/shades 5  5 785  785 Furnace/air 35  35 5,409 13 5,422 Hot water heaters 9  9 1,386 21 1,407 Kitchen/bath 13  13 1,932 8 1,940 Exterior painting 25  25 3,853 23 3,876 Landscaping 19 1 20 2,925 149 3,074 Pool/exercise facilities 18  18 2,679 65 2,744 Computers, miscellaneous 26 3 29 4,007 383 4,390 Roofs 17  17 2,674 2 2,676 Parking lot 12  12 1,802 10 1,812 Building (electrical, elevator, plumbing) 72  72 11,017 28 11,045 Submetering  7 7  1,088 1,088 Capitalized payroll and other indirect costs 129 4 133 19,969 566 20,535 Total our share $ 563 $ 17 $ 580 $ 86,680 $ 2,609 $ 89,289 Plus minority partners' share of consolidated spending 10,117 437 10,554 Less our share of unconsolidated spending (6,195 ) (40 ) (6,235 ) Total spending per Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows $ 90,602 $ 3,006 $ 93,608 For the year ended December31, 2003, we spent a total of $24.8million for initial capital expenditures, or ICE, which are expenditures at a property that have been identified, at the time the property is acquired, as expenditures to be incurred within a specified period of time following the acquisition, typically one year. In this period, ICE relates primarily to the properties acquired in the Casden Merger and the New England Properties Acquisition. For the year ended December31, 2003, we spent a total of $86.5million for redevelopment, which are expenditures that substantially upgrade the property. The following table reconciles our share of the total spending on both consolidated and unconsolidated partnerships to our Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows in Item 8 of this Annual Report for the year ended December31, 2003 (in millions): ICE Redevelopment Total Conventional Assets $ 15.9 $ 79.1 $ 95.0 Affordable Assets 8.9 7.4 16.3 Total our share 24.8 86.5 111.3 Plus minority partners' share of consolidated spending 0.4 24.9 25.3 Less our share of unconsolidated spending (0.4 ) (8.2 ) (8.6 ) Total spending per Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows $ 24.8 $ 103.2 $ 128.0 38 In 2003, we began to account for a category of capital expenditures known as Disposition Capital Expenditures, which are those capital expenditures made on conventional and affordable properties sold, held for sale or identified as to-be-sold within one year and capital expenditures on certain of our affordable properties that are expected to be sold upon completion of regulatory requirements. We will review this allocation each quarter and will re-allocate to Capital Replacements any items for those properties not sold or no longer identified as to be sold. In 2003 no amounts were reallocated to Capital Replacements.
For the year ended December31, 2003, we spent a total of $25.5million for Disposition Capital Expenditures of this total, $4.3million related to properties sold in 2003. The following table reconciles our share of the total spending on both consolidated and unconsolidated partnerships to our Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows in Item 8 of this Annual Report for the year ended December31, 2003 (in millions): Disposition Capital Expenditures Conventional Assets $ 15.1 Affordable Assets 10.4 Total our share 25.5 Plus minority partners' share of consolidated spending 2.7 Less our share of unconsolidated spending (4.3 ) Total spending per Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows $ 23.9 Included in above spending for ICE, redevelopment and disposition capital expenditures, is approximately $17.5million of our share of indirect costs related to these activities for the year ended December31, 2003.
We funded all of the above capital expenditures with cash provided by operating activities, working capital reserves, and borrowings under the Revolver.
Contractual Obligations This table summarizes information contained elsewhere in this Annual Report regarding contractual obligations and commitments as of December31, 2003 (amounts in thousands): Total Less than one Year 1-3 Years 3-5 Years More than 5 Years Scheduled long-term debt maturities $ 5,648,901 $ 207,245 $ 836,203 $ 753,900 $ 3,851,553 Secured credit facility and term loans 435,387 11,387 174,000 250,000  Mandatorily redeemable preferred securities 113,619    113,619 Leases for space occupied 24,425 5,484 9,615 9,326  Development fee payments(1) 32,500 10,000 20,000 2,500  Total $ 6,254,832 $ 234,116 $ 1,039,818 $ 1,015,726 $ 3,965,172 (1) The development fee payments above were established in connection with the Casden Merger and our commitment as it relates to the Casden Development Company, LLC. We agreed to pay $2.5million per quarter for five years (up to an aggregate amount of $50.0million) to Casden Development Company, LLC as a retainer on account for redevelopment services on our assets.
Additionally, in connection with the Casden Merger, we agreed to purchase two properties for minimum consideration of approximately $563million (of which $163million related to The Palazzo at Park La Brea, which closed subsequent to December31, 2003see Note22 of the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report), provide a stand-by facility of $70million in debt financing associated with development (which was reduced to $64.5million subsequent to 39 December31, 2003 in connection with the purchase of The Palazzo at Park La Brea) and invest up to $50million for a 20% limited liability company interest in Casden Properties, LLC. See Note9 of the consolidated financial statements in Item8 of this Annual Report for detailed information on these commitments.
Future Capital Needs In addition to the items set forth in "Contractual Obligations" above, we expect to fund any future acquisitions, redevelopment and capital improvements principally with proceeds from property sales (including 1031 exchange proceeds), short-term borrowings, debt and equity financings and operating cash flows. As of December31, 2003, we had under redevelopment eight conventional properties with 5,187 units (which includes three properties for which redevelopment activities were complete but the operations of which had not yet stabilized) and two affordable properties with 467 units. Redevelopment expenditures for five conventional properties with ongoing redevelopment activities will require an estimated total investment (redevelopment spending) of $323million, of which approximately $48million remains to be spent. Our share of the estimated total spending on those five properties is $243million of which approximately $31million remains to be spent. Additionally, in 2004 we plan to commence as many as 40 redevelopments with average spending per project in the $2million to $10million range.
During 2004 we also intend to redeem the remainder of the ClassS Preferred Stock, which anytime after April30, 2004 has a redemption price of $25 per share (see Note7 of the consolidated financial statements for additional information). Subsequent to December31, 2003, we redeemed $25million of the outstanding ClassS Preferred Stock at a redemption price of $24.63 (see Note22 of the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report).
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We own general and limited partner interests in unconsolidated real estate partnerships, which interests were acquired through portfolio acquisitions, direct purchases and separate offers to other limited partners. Our total ownership interests in these unconsolidated real estate partnerships ranges from 1% to 50%. However, based on the provisions of the related partnership agreements, which grant varying degrees of control, we are not deemed to have control of these partnerships sufficient to require or permit consolidation for accounting purposes. In 2003, Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Interpretation No.46 "Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities," or FIN 46, which changes the criteria for consolidating entities. We are currently evaluating our treatment of these unconsolidated real estate partnerships under FIN 46, which we will adopt in first quarter 2004 (see Note21 of the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report). There are no lines of credit, side agreements, or any other derivative financial instruments related to or between our unconsolidated real estate partnerships and us and no material exposure to financial guarantees (see Note9 of the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report). Accordingly, our maximum risk of loss related to these unconsolidated real estate partnerships is limited to the aggregate carrying amount of our investment in the unconsolidated real estate partnerships and any outstanding notes receivable as reported in our consolidated financial statements. See Note4 of the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report for additional information on our unconsolidated real estate partnerships.
ITEM 7A.
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Our primary market risk exposure relates to changes in interest rates. We are not subject to any foreign currency exchange rate risk or commodity price risk, or any other material market rate or price risks. We use predominantly long-term, fixed-rate and self-amortizing non-recourse mortgage debt in order to avoid the refunding and repricing risks of short-term borrowings. We use short-term debt 40 financing and working capital primarily to fund short-term uses and acquisitions and generally expect to refinance such borrowings with cash from operating activities, property sales proceeds or long-term debt financings.
We had $1,599.0million of floating rate debt outstanding at December31, 2003. Of the total floating debt, the major components were floating rate tax-exempt bond financing ($817.5million), floating rate secured notes ($247.6million), the revolving credit facility ($81.0million), term loans ($354.4million), and the ClassS Preferred Stock ($98.5million). Based on this level of debt, an increase in interest rates of 1% would result in our income before minority interests and cash flows being reduced by $16.0million on an annual basis. Historically, changes in tax-exempt interest rates have been at a ratio less than 1:1 with changes in taxable interest rates. Floating rate tax-exempt bond financing is benchmarked against the BMA Index, which since 1981 has averaged 54.0% of the 10-year Treasury Yield. If this relationship continues, an increase in interest rates of 1% (0.54% in tax-exempt interest rates) would result in our income before minority interests and cash flows being reduced by $11.2million on an annual basis. At December31, 2003, we had $4,598.9million of fixed-rate debt outstanding. As of December31, 2002, based on our level of floating rate debt of $1,411.2million, an increase in interest rates of 1% would have resulted in our income before minority interests and cash flows being reduced by $14.1million on an annual basis. The potential reduction of income before minority interests and cash flows due to an increase in interest rates increased $1.9million for the year ended December31, 2003 compared to the year ended December31, 2002, as a result of the additional debt related to our acquisitions and newly consolidated properties and the issuance of the ClassS Preferred Stock.
As of December31, 2003, the scheduled principal amortization and maturity payments for our consolidated secured notes payable and consolidated secured tax-exempt bonds were as follows (dollars in thousands): Amortization Maturities Total Percentage 2004 $ 135,849 $ 71,396 $ 207,245 3.7 % 2005 143,655 146,438 290,093 5.1 % 2006 144,774 401,336 546,110 9.7 % 2007 148,398 244,305 392,703 7.0 % 2008 152,770 208,427 361,197 6.4 % Thereafter 3,851,553 68.1 % $ 5,648,901 100.0 % ITEM 8.
Financial Statements and Supplementary Data The independent auditor's report, consolidated financial statements and schedule listed in the accompanying index are filed as part of this report and incorporated herein by this reference. See "Index to Financial Statements" on page F-1 of this Annual Report.
ITEM 9.
Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure None.
ITEM 9A.
Controls and Procedures Our management, with the participation of our chief executive officer and chief financial officer, has evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act")) as of the end of the period covered by this report. Based on such evaluation, our chief executive officer and chief financial officer have concluded that, as of the end of such period, our disclosure controls and procedures are adequate.
In addition, there have been no significant changes in our internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Rules13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) under the Exchange Act) during fourth quarter 2003 that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.
41 PART III ITEM 10.
Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant The information required by this item is presented under the caption "Board of Directors and Officers" in the proxy statement for our 2004 annual meeting of stockholders and is incorporated herein by reference.
ITEM 11.
Executive Compensation The information required by this item is presented under the captions "Summary Compensation Table," "Option/SAR Grants in Last Fiscal Year," "Aggregated Option/SAR Exercises in Last Fiscal Year and Fiscal Year-End Option/SAR Values" and "Employment Arrangements" in the proxy statement for our 2004 annual meeting of stockholders and is incorporated herein by reference.
ITEM 12.
Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters The information required by this item is presented under the captions "Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management" and "Securities Authorized for Issuance Under Equity Compensation Plans" in the proxy statement for our 2004 annual meeting of stockholders and is incorporated herein by reference.
ITEM 13.
Certain Relationships and Related Transactions The information required by this item is presented under the caption "Certain Relationships and Related Transactions" in the proxy statement for our 2004 annual meeting of stockholders and is incorporated herein by reference.
ITEM 14.
Principal Accountant Fees and Services The information required by this item is presented under the caption "Principal Accountant Fees and Services" in the proxy statement for our 2004 annual meeting of stockholders and is incorporated herein by reference.
42 PART IV ITEM 15.
Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports on Form8-K (a)(1) The financial statements listed in the Index to Financial Statements on PageF-1 of this report are filed as part of this report and incorporated herein by reference.
(a)(2) The financial statement schedule listed in the Index to Financial Statements on PageF-1 of this report is filed as part of this report and incorporated herein by reference.
(a)(3) The Exhibit Index is included on page43 of this report and incorporated herein by reference.
(b) Reports on Form8-K for the quarter ended December31, 2003: None.
INDEX TO EXHIBITS(1) EXHIBIT NO.
DESCRIPTION 2.1 Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of December 3, 2001, by and among Apartment Investment and Management Company, Casden Properties, Inc. and XYZ Holdings LLC (Exhibit 2.1 to Aimco's Current Report on Form 8-K, filed December 6, 2001, is incorporated herein by this reference) 3.1 Charter (Exhibit 3.1 to Aimco's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended June 30, 2003, is incorporated herein by this reference) 3.2 Bylaws (Exhibit 3.2 to Aimco's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2001, is incorporated herein by this reference) 10.1 Third Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership of AIMCO Properties, L.P., dated as of July 29, 1994 as amended and restated as of October 1, 1998 (Exhibit 10.8 to Aimco's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended September 30, 1998, is incorporated herein by this reference) 10.2 First Amendment to the Third Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership of AIMCO Properties, L.P., dated as of November 6, 1998 (Exhibit 10.9 to Aimco's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended September 30, 1998, is incorporated herein by this reference) 10.3 Second Amendment to the Third Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership of AIMCO Properties, L.P., dated as of December 30, 1998 (Exhibit 10.1 to Amendment No. 1 to Aimco's Current Report on Form 8-K/A, filed February 11, 1999, is incorporated herein by this reference) 10.4 Third Amendment to Third Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership of AIMCO Properties, L.P., dated as of February 18, 1999 (Exhibit 10.12 to Aimco's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 1998, is incorporated herein by this reference) 10.5 Fourth Amendment to the Third Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership of AIMCO Properties, L.P., dated as of March 25, 1999 (Exhibit 10.2 to Aimco's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 1999, is incorporated herein by this reference) 10.6 Fifth Amendment to the Third Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership of AIMCO Properties, L.P., dated as of March 26, 1999 (Exhibit 10.3 to Aimco's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 1999, is incorporated herein by this reference) 43 10.7 Sixth Amendment to the Third Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership of AIMCO Properties, L.P., dated as of March 26, 1999 (Exhibit 10.1 to Aimco's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended June 30, 1999, is incorporated herein by this reference) 10.8 Seventh Amendment to the Third Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership of AIMCO Properties, L.P., dated as of September 27, 1999 (Exhibit 10.1 to Aimco's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended September 30, 1999, is incorporated herein by this reference) 10.9 Eighth Amendment to the Third Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership of AIMCO Properties, L.P., dated as of December 14, 1999 (Exhibit 10.9 to Aimco's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1999, is incorporated herein by reference) 10.10 Ninth Amendment to the Third Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership of AIMCO Properties, L.P., dated as of December 21, 1999 (Exhibit 10.10 to Aimco's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1999, is incorporated hereby by reference) 10.11 Tenth Amendment to the Third Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership of AIMCO Properties, L.P., dated as of December 21, 1999 (Exhibit 10.11 to Aimco's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1999, is incorporated herein by reference) 10.12 Eleventh Amendment to the Third Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership of AIMCO Properties, L.P., dated as of January 13, 2000 (Exhibit 10.12 to Aimco's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1999, is incorporated herein by reference) 10.13 Twelfth Amendment to the Third Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership of AIMCO Properties, L.P., dated as of April 19, 2000 (Exhibit 10.2 to Aimco's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2000, is incorporated herein by this reference) 10.14 Thirteenth Amendment to the Third and Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership of AIMCO Properties, L.P., dated as of August 7, 2000 (Exhibit 10.1 to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q of AIMCO Properties, L.P. for the quarterly period ended June 30, 2000, is incorporated herein by this reference) 10.15 Fourteenth Amendment to the Third Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership of AIMCO Properties, L.P., dated as of September 12, 2000 (Exhibit 10.1 to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q of AIMCO Properties, L.P. for the quarterly period ended September 30, 2000, is incorporated herein by this reference) 10.16 Fifteenth Amendment to the Third Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership of AIMCO Properties, L.P., dated as of September 15, 2000 (Exhibit 10.2 to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q of AIMCO Properties, L.P. for the quarterly period ended September 30, 2000, is incorporated herein by this reference) 10.17 Sixteenth Amendment to the Third Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership of AIMCO Properties, L.P., dated as of September 15, 2000 (Exhibit 10.3 to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q of AIMCO Properties, L.P. for the quarterly period ended September 30, 2000, is incorporated herein by this reference) 10.18 Seventeenth Amendment to the Third Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership of AIMCO Properties, L.P., dated as of November 10, 2000 (Exhibit 10.4 to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q of AIMCO Properties, L.P. for the quarterly period ended September 30, 2000, is incorporated herein by this reference) 10.19 Eighteenth Amendment to the Third Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership of AIMCO Properties, L.P., dated as of November 16, 2000 (Exhibit 10.19 to Aimco's Annual Report on Form 10-K/A for the fiscal year 2000, is incorporated herein by this reference) 44 10.20 Nineteenth Amendment to the Third Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership of AIMCO Properties, L.P., dated as of February 28, 2001 (Exhibit 10.20 to Aimco's Annual Report on Form 10-K/A for the fiscal year 2000, is incorporated herein by this reference) 10.21 Twentieth Amendment to the Third Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership of AIMCO Properties, L.P., dated as of March 19, 2001 (Exhibit 10.21 to Aimco's Annual Report on Form 10-K/A for the fiscal year 2000, is incorporated herein by this reference) 10.22 Twenty-first Amendment to the Third Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership of AIMCO Properties, L.P., dated as of May 10, 2001 (Exhibit 10.1 to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q of AIMCO Properties, L.P. for the quarterly period ended June 30, 2001, is incorporated herein by this reference) 10.23 Twenty-second Amendment to the Third Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership of AIMCO Properties, L.P., dated as of June 20, 2001 (Exhibit 10.2 to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q of AIMCO Properties, L.P. for the quarterly period ended June 30, 2001, is incorporated herein by this reference) 10.24 Twenty-third Amendment to the Third Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership of AIMCO Properties, L.P., dated as of July 20, 2001 (Exhibit 10.3 to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q of AIMCO Properties, L.P. for the quarterly period ended June 30, 2001, is incorporated herein by this reference) 10.25 Twenty-fourth Amendment to the Third Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership of AIMCO Properties, L.P., dated as of August 1, 2001 (Exhibit 10.4 to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q of AIMCO Properties, L.P. for the quarterly period ended June 30, 2001, is incorporated herein by this reference) 10.26 Twenty-fifth Amendment to the Third Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership of AIMCO Properties, L.P., dated as of July 2, 2001 (Exhibit 10.5 to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q of AIMCO Properties, L.P. for the quarterly period ended June 30, 2001, is incorporated herein by this reference) 10.27 Twenty-sixth Amendment to the Third Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership of AIMCO Properties, L.P., dated as of July 2, 2001 (Exhibit 10.6 to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q of AIMCO Properties, L.P. for the quarterly period ended June 30, 2001, is incorporated herein by this reference) 10.28 Twenty-seventh Amendment to the Third Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership of AIMCO Properties, L.P., dated as of July 2, 2001 (Exhibit 10.7 to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q of AIMCO Properties, L.P. for the quarterly period ended June 30, 2001, is incorporated herein by this reference) 10.29 Twenty-eighth Amendment to the Third Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership of AIMCO Properties, L.P., dated as of March 25, 2002 (Exhibit 10.1 to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q of AIMCO Properties, L.P. for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2002, is incorporated herein by this reference) 10.30 Twenty-ninth Amendment to the Third Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership of AIMCO Properties, L.P., dated as of March 11, 2002 (Exhibit 10.2 to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q of AIMCO Properties, L.P. for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2002, is incorporated herein by this reference) 10.31 Thirtieth Amendment to the Third Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership of AIMCO Properties, L.P., dated as of April 1, 2002 (Exhibit 10.3 to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q of AIMCO Properties, L.P. for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2002, is incorporated herein by this reference) 45 10.32 Thirty-first Amendment to the Third Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership of AIMCO Properties, L.P., dated as of April 10, 2002 (Exhibit 10.4 to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q of AIMCO Properties, L.P. for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2002, is incorporated herein by this reference) 10.33 Thirty-second Amendment to the Third Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership of AIMCO Properties, L.P., dated as of May 14, 2002 (Exhibit 10.1 to Aimco's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended June 30, 2002, is incorporated herein by this reference) 10.34 Thirty-third Amendment to the Third Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership of AIMCO Properties, L.P., dated as of November 27, 2002 (Exhibit 10.34 to Aimco's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2002, is incorporated herein by this reference) 10.35 Thirty-fourth Amendment to the Third Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership of AIMCO Properties, L.P., dated as of April 29, 2003 (Exhibit 10.1 to Aimco's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2003, is incorporated herein by this reference) 10.36 Thirty-fifth Amendment to the Third Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership of AIMCO Properties, L.P., dated as of April 30, 2003 (Exhibit 10.2 to Aimco's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2003, is incorporated herein by this reference) 10.37 Thirty-sixth Amendment to the Third Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership of AIMCO Properties, L.P., dated as of July 16, 2003 (Exhibit 10.1 to Aimco's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended June 30, 2003, is incorporated herein by this reference) 10.38 Thirty-seventh Amendment to the Third Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership of AIMCO Properties, L.P., dated as of July 24, 2003 (Exhibit 10.2 to Aimco's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended June 30, 2003, is incorporated herein by this reference) 10.39 Thirty-eighth Amendment to the Third Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership of AIMCO Properties, L.P., dated as of January 30, 2004 10.40 Fifth Amended and Restated Credit Agreement (the "Revolver"), dated as of February 14, 2003, by and among Apartment Investment and Management Company, AIMCO Properties, L.P., AIMCO/Bethesda Holdings, Inc., NHP Management Company, Bank of America, N.A. and the Lenders listed therein (Exhibit 10.35.2 to Aimco's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2002, is incorporated herein by this reference) 10.40.1 Form of First Amendment to Fifth Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, dated as of May 9, 2003, by and among Apartment Investment and Management Company, AIMCO Properties, L.P., AIMCO/Bethesda Holdings, Inc., NHP Management Company, Bank of America, N.A., and the lenders listed therein (Exhibit 10.1 to Aimco's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended September 30, 2003, is incorporated herein by this reference) 10.40.2 Second Amendment to Fifth Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, dated as of May 30, 2003, by and among Apartment Investment and Management Company, AIMCO Properties, L.P., AIMCO/Bethesda Holdings, Inc., NHP Management Company, Bank of America, N.A., and the lenders listed therein (Exhibit 10.4 to Aimco's Current Report on Form 8-K dated August 20, 2003, is incorporated herein by this reference) 10.40.3 Form of Third Amendment to Fifth Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, dated as of September 30, 2003, by and among Apartment Investment and Management Company, AIMCO Properties, L.P., AIMCO/Bethesda Holdings, Inc., NHP Management Company, Bank of America, N.A., and the lenders listed therein (Exhibit 10.2 to Aimco's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended September 30, 2003, is incorporated herein by this reference) 46 10.41 Amended and Restated Payment Guaranty (Revolver Guarantors), dated as of May 30, 2003, by the guarantor signors thereto in favor of Bank of America, N.A. and the lenders from time to time party to the Revolver (Exhibit 10.5 to Aimco's Current Report on Form 8-K dated August 20, 2003, is incorporated herein by this reference) 10.42 Payment Guaranty (Casden Guarantors), dated as of March 11, 2002, by the guarantor signors thereto in favor of Bank of America, N.A. and the lenders party to the Revolver (Exhibit 10.31 to Aimco's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2001, is incorporated herein by this reference) 10.43 Interim Credit Agreement ("Interim Credit Agreement") among Apartment Investment and Management Company, AIMCO Properties, L.P., NHP Management Company, Lehman Commercial Paper, Inc., and the other financial institutions party thereto, dated as of March 11, 2002 (Exhibit 10.32 to Aimco's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2001, is incorporated herein by this reference) 10.43.1 First Amendment and Waiver, dated as of June 12, 2002, to the Interim Credit Agreement by and among AIMCO Properties, L.P., NHP Management Company, Apartment Investment and Management Company, Lehman Commercial Paper Inc., Lehman Brothers Inc., and each lender from time to time party thereto 10.43.2 Second Amendment, dated as of August 2, 2002, to the Interim Credit Agreement by and among AIMCO Properties, L.P., NHP Management Company, Apartment Investment and Management Company, Lehman Commercial Paper Inc., Lehman Brothers Inc., and each lender from time to time party thereto (Exhibit 10.3 to Aimco's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended June 30, 2002 is incorporated herein by this reference) 10.43.3 Third Amendment, dated as of February 14, 2003 to the Interim Credit Agreement by and among AIMCO Properties, L.P., NHP Management Company, Apartment Investment and Management Company, Lehman Commercial Paper Inc., Lehman Brothers Inc., and each lender from time to time party thereto (Exhibit 10.38.2 to Aimco's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2002, is incorporated herein by this reference) 10.43.4 Form of Fourth Amendment, dated as of May 9, 2003 to the Interim Credit Agreement by and among AIMCO Properties, L.P., NHP Management Company, Apartment Investment and Management Company, Lehman Commercial Paper Inc., Lehman Brothers Inc., and each lender from time to time party thereto (Exhibit 10.3 to Aimco's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended September 30, 2003, is incorporated herein by this reference) 10.43.5 Fifth Amendment, dated as of May 30, 2003, to the Interim Credit Agreement by and among Apartment Investment and Management Company, AIMCO Properties, L.P., NHP Management Company, Lehman Commercial Paper Inc., and the lenders from time to time party thereto (Exhibit 10.6 to Aimco's Current Report on Form 8-K dated August 20, 2003, is incorporated herein by this reference) 10.43.6 Form of Sixth Amendment, dated as of September 30, 2003 to the Interim Credit Agreement by and among AIMCO Properties, L.P., NHP Management Company, Apartment Investment and Management Company, Lehman Commercial Paper Inc., Lehman Brothers Inc., and each lender from time to time party thereto (Exhibit 10.4 to Aimco's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended September 30, 2003, is incorporated herein by this reference) 10.44 Form of Amended and Restated Payment Guaranty (Casden Loan Guarantors), dated as of May 30, 2003, by the guarantor signors thereto in favor of Lehman Commercial Paper Inc. and the lenders from time to time party to the Interim Credit Agreement (Exhibit 10.7 to Aimco's Current Report on Form 8-K dated August 20, 2003, is incorporated herein by this reference) 47 10.45 Payment Guaranty (Non-Casden Guarantors), dated as of March 11, 2002, by the guarantor signors thereto in favor of Lehman Commercial Paper, Inc. and the lenders party to the Interim Credit Agreement (Exhibit 10.34 to Aimco's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2001, is incorporated herein by this reference) 10.46 Term Loan Credit Agreement ("Term Loan"), dated as of May 30, 2003, by and among Apartment Investment and Management Company, AIMCO Properties, L.P., AIMCO/Bethesda Holdings, Inc., NHP Management Company, each lender from time to time party to the Term Loan and Bank of America, N.A., as administrative agent (Exhibit 10.1 to Aimco's Current Report on Form 8-K dated August 20, 2003, is incorporated herein by this reference) 10.46.1 Form of First Amendment to Term Loan Agreement, dated as of September 30, 2003, by and among Apartment Investment and Management Company, AIMCO Properties, L.P., AIMCO/Bethesda Holdings, Inc. and NHP Management Company, Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent and the Lenders party thereto (Exhibit 10.5 to Aimco's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended September 30, 2003, is incorporated herein by this reference) 10.47 Payment Guaranty (Term Loan Guarantors), dated as of May 30, 2003, by the guarantor signors thereto in favor of Bank of America, N.A. and the lenders from time to time party to the Term Loan (Exhibit 10.2 to Aimco's Current Report on Form 8-K dated August 20, 2003, is incorporated herein by this reference) 10.48 Amended and Restated Intercreditor and Collateral Agency Agreement, dated as of May 30, 2003, by and among Bank of America, N.A. in its capacity as collateral agent and as administrative agent for the lenders on the Term Loan and the lenders on the Revolver, Lehman Commercial Paper Inc., in its capacity as administrative agent for the lenders on the Interim Credit Agreement, Apartment Investment and Management Company, AIMCO Properties, L.P., AIMCO/Bethesda Holdings, Inc., NHP Management Company (Exhibit 10.3 to Aimco's Current Report on Form 8-K dated August 20, 2003, is incorporated herein by this reference) 10.49 Consent and Voting Agreement, dated December 3, 2001, by and among Apartment Investment and Management Company, certain stockholders of Casden Properties, Inc., and Casden Park La Brea, Inc., set forth on the signature pages thereto (Exhibit 2.2 to Aimco's Current Report on Form 8-K, filed December 6, 2001, is incorporated herein by this reference) 10.50 Master Indemnification Agreement, dated December 3, 2001, by and among Apartment Investment and Management Company, AIMCO Properties, L.P., XYZ Holdings LLC, and the other parties signatory thereto (Exhibit 2.3 to Aimco's Current Report on Form 8-K, filed December 6, 2001, is incorporated herein by this reference) 10.51 Tax Indemnification and Contest Agreement, dated December 3, 2001, by and among Apartment Investment and Management Company, National Partnership Investments, Corp., and XYZ Holdings LLC and the other parties signatory thereto (Exhibit 2.4 to Aimco's Current Report on Form 8-K, filed December 6, 2001, is incorporated herein by this reference) 10.52 Purchase Agreement, dated March 21, 2002, by and among Cohen & Steers Quality Income Realty Fund, Inc., Cohen & Steers Equity Income Fund, Inc. and Apartment Investment and Management Company (Exhibit 1.1 to Aimco's Current Report on Form 8-K,  dated March 25, 2002, is incorporated herein by this reference) 10.53 Placement Agency Agreement, dated March 21, 2002, by and among Apartment Investment and Management Company, AIMCO Properties, L.P., Merrill Lynch & Co., and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated (Exhibit 1.2 to Aimco's Current Report on Form 8-K, dated March 25, 2002, is incorporated herein by this reference) 10.54 Limited Liability Company Agreement of AIMCO JV Portfolio #1, LLC dated as of December 30, 2003 by and among AIMCO BRE I, LLC, AIMCO BRE II, LLC and SRV-AJVP#1, LLC 48 10.55 Employment Contract, executed on July 29, 1994, by and between AIMCO Properties, L.P., and Peter Kompaniez (Exhibit 10.44A to Aimco's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1994, is incorporated herein by this reference) * 10.56 Employment Contract executed on July 29, 1994 by and between AIMCO Properties, L.P. and Terry Considine (Exhibit 10.44C to Aimco's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1994, is incorporated herein by this reference)* 10.57 Apartment Investment and Management Company 1998 Incentive Compensation Plan (Annex B to Aimco's Proxy Statement for Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on May 8, 1998, is incorporated herein by this reference)* 10.58 Apartment Investment and Management Company 1997 Stock Award and Incentive Plan (October 1999) (Exhibit 10.26 to Aimco's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1999, is incorporated herein by this reference)* 10.59 Form of Restricted Stock Agreement (1997 Stock Award and Incentive Plan) (Exhibit 10.11 to Aimco's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended September 30, 1997, is incorporated herein by this reference)* 10.60 Form of Incentive Stock Option Agreement (1997 Stock Award and Incentive Plan) (Exhibit 10.42 to Aimco's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1998, is incorporated herein by this reference)* 10.61 Apartment Investment and Management Company Non-Qualified Employee Stock Option Plan, adopted August 29, 1996 (Exhibit 10.8 to Aimco's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended September 30, 1996, is incorporated herein by this reference)* 10.62 Amended and Restated Apartment Investment and Management Company Non-Qualified Employee Stock Option Plan (Annex B to Aimco's Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on April 24, 1997, is incorporated herein by this reference)* 10.63 The 1994 Stock Incentive Plan for Officers, Directors and Key Employees of Ambassador Apartments, Inc., Ambassador Apartments, L.P., and Subsidiaries (Exhibit 10.40 to Annual Report on Form 10-K of Ambassador Apartments, Inc. for the year ended December 31, 1997, is incorporated herein by this reference)* 10.64 Amendment to the 1994 Stock Incentive Plan for Officers, Directors and Key Employees of Ambassador Apartments, Inc., Ambassador Apartments, L.P. and Subsidiaries (Exhibit 10.41 to Ambassador Apartments, Inc. Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1997, is incorporated herein by this reference)* 10.65 The 1996 Stock Incentive Plan for Officers, Directors and Key Employees of Ambassador Apartments, Inc., Ambassador Apartments, L.P., and Subsidiaries, as amended March 20, 1997 (Exhibit 10.42 to Ambassador Apartments, Inc. Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1997, is incorporated herein by this reference)* 10.66 Insignia 1992 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended through March 28, 1994 and November 13, 1995 (Exhibit 10.1 to Insignia Financial Group, Inc. Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1997, is incorporated herein by this reference)* 10.67 NHP Incorporated 1990 Stock Option Plan (Exhibit 10.9 to NHP Incorporated Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1995, is incorporated herein by this reference)* 10.68 NHP Incorporated 1995 Incentive Stock Option Plan (Exhibit 10.10 to NHP Incorporated Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1995, is incorporated herein by this reference)* 10.69 Summary of Agreement for Sale of Stock to Executive Officers (Exhibit 10.104 to Aimco's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1996, is incorporated herein by this reference)* 49 21.1 List of Subsidiaries 23.1 Consent of Ernst & Young LLP 31.1 Certification of Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Securities Exchange Act Rules 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a), as Adopted Pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 31.2 Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Securities Exchange Act Rules 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a), as Adopted Pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 32.1 Certification Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as Adopted Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 32.2 Certification Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as Adopted Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 99.1 Agreement re: disclosure of long-term debt instruments (1) Schedule and supplemental materials to the exhibits have been omitted but will be provided to the Securities and Exchange Commission upon request.
* Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement 50 SIGNATURES Pursuant to the requirements of Section13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, on the 10th day of March, 2004.
APARTMENT INVESTMENT AND MANAGEMENT COMPANY /s/ TERRY CONSIDINE Terry Considine Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.
Signature Title Date /s/ TERRY CONSIDINE Terry Considine Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer (principal executive officer) March11, 2004 /s/ PETER K. KOMPANIEZ Peter K. Kompaniez Vice Chairman of the Board and President March11, 2004 /s/ PAUL J. MCAULIFFE Paul J. McAuliffe Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (principal financial officer) March11, 2004 /s/ THOMAS M. HERZOG Thomas M. Herzog Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer (principal accounting officer) March11, 2004 /s/ JAMES N. BAILEY James N. Bailey Director March11, 2004 /s/ RICHARD S. ELLWOOD Richard S. Ellwood Director March11, 2004 /s/ J. LANDIS MARTIN J. Landis Martin Director March11, 2004 /s/ THOMAS L. RHODES Thomas L. Rhodes Director March11, 2004 51 APARTMENT INVESTMENT AND MANAGEMENT COMPANY INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Financial Statements: Report of Independent Auditors Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December31, 2003 and 2002 Consolidated Statements of Income for the Years Ended December31, 2003, 2002 and 2001 Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity for the Years Ended December31, 2003, 2002 and 2001 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the Years Ended December31, 2003, 2002 and 2001 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Financial Statement Schedule: ScheduleIIIReal Estate and Accumulated Depreciation All other schedules are omitted because they are not applicable or the required information is shown in the financial statements or notes thereto F-1 REPORT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS Stockholders and Board of Directors Apartment Investment and Management Company We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Apartment Investment and Management Company as of December31, 2003 and 2002, and the related consolidated statements of income, stockholders' equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December31, 2003. Our audits also included the financial statement schedule listed in the Index at Item 15(a)(2). These financial statements and schedule are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements and schedule based on our audits.
We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the United States. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of Apartment Investment and Management Company at December31, 2003 and 2002, and the consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December31, 2003, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. Also, in our opinion, the related financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly, in all material respects the information set forth therein.
As discussed in Note2 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No.144, "Accounting for Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets," as of January1, 2002. As a result, the accompanying consolidated financial statements for 2001, referred to above, have been restated to conform to the presentation adopted in 2002 in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.
/s/ ERNST& YOUNG LLP Denver, Colorado February12, 2004 except for Note22, as to which the date is February24, 2004 F-2 APARTMENT INVESTMENT AND MANAGEMENT COMPANY CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS As of December31, 2003 and 2002 (In Thousands, Except Share Data) 2003 2002 ASSETS Real estate: Land $ 2,085,425 $ 1,926,584 Buildings and improvements 8,515,493 8,300,122 Total real estate 10,600,918 10,226,706 Less accumulated depreciation (1,847,652 ) (1,610,924 ) Net real estate 8,753,266 8,615,782 Cash and cash equivalents 98,129 97,136 Restricted cash 245,818 216,485 Accounts receivable 67,379 84,188 Accounts receivable from affiliates 56,874 47,060 Deferred financing costs 73,736 68,965 Notes receivable from unconsolidated real estate partnerships 137,416 147,592 Notes receivable from non-affiliates 68,771 21,646 Investment in unconsolidated real estate partnerships 237,699 368,639 Other assets 284,343 259,154 Assets held for sale 89,931 389,954 Total assets $ 10,113,362 $ 10,316,601 LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY Secured tax-exempt bond financing $ 1,199,360 $ 1,205,554 Secured notes payable 4,449,541 4,395,256 Mandatorily redeemable preferred securities 113,619 15,169 Term loans 354,387 115,011 Credit facility 81,000 291,000 Total indebtedness 6,197,907 6,021,990 Accounts payable 18,491 11,232 Accrued liabilities and other 401,456 292,119 Deferred income 26,024 15,190 Security deposits 41,366 39,588 Deferred income taxes payable 26,065 36,680 Liabilities related to assets held for sale 45,543 285,943 Total liabilities 6,756,852 6,702,742 Minority interest in consolidated real estate partnerships 191,948 75,535 Minority interest in Aimco Operating Partnership 303,905 374,937 Stockholders' equity: Preferred Stock, perpetual 555,250 552,520 Preferred Stock, convertible 299,992 392,492 Class A Common Stock, $.01 par value, 444,962,738 and 454,962,738 shares authorized, 93,887,040 and 93,769,996 shares issued and outstanding, respectively 939 938 Additional paid-in capital 3,053,312 3,050,057 Unvested restricted stock (10,772 ) (7,079 ) Notes due on common stock purchases (40,046 ) (48,964 ) Distributions in excess of earnings (998,018 ) (776,577 ) Total stockholders' equity 2,860,657 3,163,387 Total liabilities and stockholders' equity $ 10,113,362 $ 10,316,601 See notes to consolidated financial statements.
F-3 APARTMENT INVESTMENT AND MANAGEMENT COMPANY CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME For the Years Ended December31, 2003, 2002 and 2001 (In Thousands, Except Per Share Data) 2003 2002 2001 REVENUES: Rental and other property revenues $ 1,445,796 $ 1,292,352 $ 1,123,325 Management fees and other income primarily from affiliates 70,487 95,479 149,712 Total revenues 1,516,283 1,387,831 1,273,037 EXPENSES: Property operating expenses 642,697 515,363 428,400 Management and other expenses 50,574 64,031 97,439 Depreciation of rental property 328,379 266,402 302,590 Amortization of intangibles 6,702 4,026 18,729 General and administrative expenses 28,815 30,544 24,930 Provision for losses on accounts, fees and notes receivable 2,183 9,006 6,646 Total expenses 1,059,350 889,372 878,734 Operating income 456,933 498,459 394,303 Interest and other income 25,020 77,282 73,915 Interest expense (372,746 ) (324,471 ) (280,092 ) Equity in earnings (losses) of unconsolidated real estate partnerships (6,417 ) 694 (16,662 ) Deficit distributions to minority partners (22,672 ) (26,979 ) (46,359 ) Impairment loss on investment in unconsolidated real estate partnerships (4,122 ) (5,540 )  Gain (loss) on dispositions of real estate 3,178 (22,362 ) 17,394 Income before minority interests and discontinued operations 79,174 197,083 142,499 Minority interests: Minority interest in consolidated real estate partnerships (2,028 ) (14,535 ) (36,836 ) Minority interest in Aimco Operating Partnership, preferred (9,312 ) (10,874 ) (9,803 ) Minority interest in Aimco Operating Partnership, common 2,875 (11,723 ) (745 ) Total minority interest (8,465 ) (37,132 ) (47,384 ) Income from continuing operations 70,709 159,951 95,115 Income from discontinued operations, net 88,148 9,095 12,237 Net income 158,857 169,046 107,352 Net income attributable to preferred stockholders 93,565 93,558 90,331 Net income attributable to common stockholders $ 65,292 $ 75,488 $ 17,021 Earnings (loss) per common sharebasic: Income (loss) from continuing operations (net of preferred dividends) $ (0.25 ) $ 0.77 $ 0.07 Net income attributable to common stockholders $ 0.70 $ 0.88 $ 0.23 Earnings (loss) per common sharediluted: Income (loss) from continuing operations (net of preferred dividends) $ (0.25 ) $ 0.77 $ 0.06 Net income attributable to common stockholders $ 0.70 $ 0.87 $ 0.23 Weighted average common shares outstanding 92,850 85,698 72,458 Weighted average common shares and equivalents outstanding 92,968 86,773 73,648 Dividends declared per common share $ 2.84 $ 3.28 $ 3.16 See notes to consolidated financial statements.
F-4 APARTMENT INVESTMENT AND MANAGEMENT COMPANY CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY For the Years Ended December31, 2003, 2002 and 2001 (In Thousands) Preferred Stock ClassA Common Stock Shares Issued Amount Shares Issued Amount Additional Paid-in Capital Unvested Restricted Stock Notes Due on Common Stock Purchases Distributions in Excess of Earnings Total BALANCE DECEMBER31, 2000 30,174 $ 837,717 71,337 $ 713 $ 2,072,208 $ (1,575 ) $ (44,302 ) $ (364,679 ) $ 2,500,082 Net proceeds from issuances of Preferred Stock 7,470 186,750   (7,055 )    179,695 Repurchase of ClassA Common Stock   (772 ) (8 ) (33,290 )    (33,298 ) Conversion of Aimco Operating Partnership units to ClassA Common Stock   526 6 22,995    23,001 Conversion of mandatorily redeemable convertible preferred securities to ClassA Common Stock   238 2 11,691    11,693 Repayment of notes receivable from officers       8,535  8,535 Purchase of stock by officers and awards of restricted stock   413 4 18,233 (6,967 ) (10,693 )  577 Stock options and warrants exercised   572 6 18,738    18,744 Amortization of unvested restricted stock      2,767   2,767 ClassP Preferred Stock issued as consideration for the OTEF merger 4,000 100,000       100,000 ClassA Common Stock issued as consideration for the OTEF merger   2,185 22 106,283    106,305 Net income        107,352 107,352 Dividends paidClassA Common Stock        (226,342 ) (226,342 ) Dividends paidPreferred Stock        (88,496 ) (88,496 ) BALANCE DECEMBER31, 2001 41,644 1,124,467 74,499 745 2,209,803 (5,775 ) (46,460 ) (572,165 ) 2,710,615 Net proceeds from issuances of Preferred Stock 2,000 50,000   511    50,511 Net proceeds from issuances of ClassA Common Stock   8,000 80 367,673    367,753 Conversion of Aimco Operating Partnership units to ClassA Common Stock   1,100 11 45,830    45,841 Conversion of ClassesB, K, L, and P Preferred Stock to ClassA Common Stock (7,919 ) (229,455 ) 5,699 57 229,398     Conversion of mandatorily redeemable convertible preferred securities to ClassA Common Stock   107 1 5,467    5,468 Repayment of notes receivable from officers       5,251  5,251 Purchase of stock by officers and awards of restricted stock   268 3 13,373 (5,537 ) (7,755 )  84 Stock options and warrants exercised   567 6 12,151   12,157 Amortization of unvested restricted stock      4,233   4,233 ClassA Common Stock issued as consideration for the Casden Merger   3,508 35 164,847    164,882 ClassA Common Stock issued as consideration for acquisition of interest in real estate   22  1,004    1,004 Net income        169,046 169,046 Dividends paidClassA Common Stock        (278,867 ) (278,867 ) Dividends paidPreferred Stock        (94,591 ) (94,591 ) BALANCE DECEMBER31, 2002 35,725 945,012 93,770 938 3,050,057 (7,079 ) (48,964 ) (776,577 ) 3,163,387 Net proceeds from issuances of Preferred Stock 6,000 150,000   (5,192 )    144,808 Conversion of Aimco Operating Partnership units to ClassA Common Stock   338 3 12,032    12,035 Conversion of Preferred Operating Partnership units to ClassA Common Stock   22  884    884 Redemption of ClassesC, D, H, L and M Preferred Stock (9,600 ) (239,770 )       (239,770 ) ClassA Common Stock received under Casden indemnification agreement and other activity   585 (6 ) (25,520 )    (25,526 ) Conversion of mandatorily redeemable convertible preferred securities to ClassA Common Stock   1  50    50 Repayment of notes receivable from officers       10,518  10,518 Purchase of stock by officers and awards of restricted stock   265 3 9,968 (7,781 ) (1,600 )  590 Stock options exercised   72 1 2,343    2,344 Amortization of stock option fair value and unvested restricted stock     892 4,088   4,980 ClassA Common Stock issued as consideration for acquisition of interest in real estate   4  153    153 Net income        158,857 158,857 Dividends paidClassA Common Stock        (285,054 ) (285,054 ) Redemption related preferred stock issuance costs     7,645   (7,645 )  Dividends paidPreferred Stock        (87,599 ) (87,599 ) BALANCE DECEMBER31, 2003 32,125 $ 855,242 93,887 $ 939 $ 3,053,312 $ (10,772 ) $ (40,046 ) $ (998,018 ) $ 2,860,657 See notes to consolidated financial statements.
F-5 APARTMENT INVESTMENT AND MANAGEMENT COMPANY CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS For the Years Ended December31, 2003, 2002 and 2001 (In Thousands) 2003 2002 2001 CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES: Net income $ 158,857 $ 169,046 $ 107,352 Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by operating activities: Depreciation and amortization of intangibles 335,081 270,428 321,319 Deficit distributions to minority partners 22,672 26,979 46,359 (Gain) loss on dispositions of real estate (3,178 ) 22,362 (17,394 ) Impairment loss on investment in unconsolidated real estate partnerships 4,122 5,540  Income from discontinued operations (88,148 ) (9,095 ) (12,237 ) Minority interest in Aimco Operating Partnership 6,437 22,597 10,548 Minority interest in consolidated real estate partnerships 2,028 14,535 36,836 Equity in (earnings) losses of unconsolidated real estate partnerships 6,417 (694 ) 16,662 Changes in operating assets and operating liabilities: Deferred income taxes (11,215 ) 332 1,379 Other (2,815 ) (24,741 ) (16,367 ) Total adjustments 271,401 328,243 387,105 Net cash provided by operating activities 430,258 497,289 494,457 CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES: Purchase of real estate (126,046 ) (578,745 ) (66,534 ) Initial capital expenditures (24,842 ) (34,697 ) (61,662 ) Capital enhancements (3,006 ) (7,528 ) (31,500 ) Capital replacements (90,602 ) (82,381 ) (67,373 ) Redevelopment additions to real estate (103,156 ) (145,490 ) (147,319 ) Proceeds from dispositions of real estate 697,642 370,837 175,864 Disposition capital expenditures (23,922 )   Funds held in escrow from tax free exchanges pending the purchase of real estate (21,643 )   Proceeds from sale of investments and other assets 6,730 22,747 253,277 Cash from newly consolidated properties 5,835 13,602 23,656 Purchase of general and limited partnership interests and other assets (41,356 ) (68,485 ) (114,312 ) Originations of notes receivable from unconsolidated real estate partnerships (71,969 ) (109,475 ) (111,157 ) Proceeds from repayment of notes receivable 60,576 83,332 53,207 Cash paid in connection with merger/acquisition related costs (16,383 ) (260,874 ) (80,630 ) Distributions received from investments in unconsolidated real estate partnerships 64,046 10,780 42,473 Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities 311,904 (786,377 ) (132,010 ) CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES: Proceeds from secured notes payable borrowings 445,793 956,565 628,529 Principal repayments on secured notes payable (755,786 ) (642,745 ) (548,672 ) Proceeds from tax-exempt bond financing 14,505 297,551 112,702 Principal repayments on tax-exempt bond financing (77,793 ) (423,613 ) (150,949 ) Principal repayments on secured short-term financing   (25,105 ) Net borrowings (pay downs) on term loans and revolving credit facility 29,376 192,509 (178,240 ) Payment of loan costs (19,516 ) (17,384 ) (17,774 ) Proceeds from issuance of mandatorily redeemable preferred securities 97,250   Proceeds from issuance of Class A Common Stock and exercise of options/warrants 2,738 372,502 25,381 Proceeds from issuance of preferred stock 144,808 50,511 179,695 Principal repayments received on notes due on Class A Common Stock purchases 10,518 5,251 8,535 Redemption of preferred stock (239,770 )   Repurchase of Class A Common Stock   (33,298 ) Redemption of OP Units (1,287 ) (684 )  Proceeds from issuance of High Performance Units 1,814 1,002 3,235 Payment of Class A Common Stock dividends (285,054 ) (278,867 ) (226,342 ) Contributions from minority interest 100,684   Payment of distributions to minority interest (107,964 ) (109,366 ) (128,763 ) Payment of preferred stock dividends (87,599 ) (94,591 ) (88,496 ) Net cash (used in) provided by financing activities (727,283 ) 308,641 (439,562 ) NET INCREASE (DECREASE) IN CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 14,879 19,553 (77,115 ) CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT BEGINNING OF YEAR 97,136 78,462 153,935 NET (INCREASE) DECREASE IN CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS INCLUDED WITHIN ASSETS HELD FOR SALE FROM BEGINNING TO END OF YEAR (13,886 ) (879 ) 1,642 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT END OF YEAR $ 98,129 $ 97,136 $ 78,462 See notes to consolidated financial statements.
F-6 APARTMENT INVESTMENT AND MANAGEMENT COMPANY CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS For the Years Ended December31, 2003, 2002 and 2001 (In Thousands) 2003 2002 2001 SUPPLEMENTAL CASH FLOW INFORMATION: Interest paid $ 386,812 $ 347,352 $ 335,747 Non Cash Transactions Associated with the Acquisition of Real Estate and Interests in Unconsolidated Real Estate Partnerships: Secured debt assumed in connection with purchase of real estate 45,009  25,900 Real estate, investments in unconsolidated real estate partnerships, and other assets acquired 36,493 7,114 65,314 Assumption of operating liabilities (275 ) 1,525 1,411 Minority interest in consolidated real estate partnerships (8,217 )   OP Units (repurchased) issued (24 ) 5,589 38,003 Non Cash Transactions Associated with Acquisition of Limited Partnership Interests: Issuance of Class A Common Stock for interest in real estate partnerships  1,004  Issuance of OP Units for interests in unconsolidated real estate partnerships and other interests 865 16,871 41,328 Non Cash Transactions Associated with Mergers: Real estate (63,535 ) 1,076,569  Investments in and notes receivable, primarily from unconsolidated real estate partnerships (2,163 ) 41,722 (1,444 ) Restricted cash 11,979 70,095  Other assets 3,349 42,336 243,091 Secured debt  684,661 (30,020 ) Accounts payable, accrued and other liabilities 49,770 129,668 30,445 Deferred income tax payable, net 600 2,147  Minority interest in consolidated real estate partnerships  1  OP Units issued  41,491  Class A Common Stock issued  164,882 106,305 Preferred Stock issued   100,000 Non Cash Transactions Associated with Consolidation of Assets: Real estate 152,248 743,014 715,434 Investments in and notes receivable primarily from affiliated entities (52,478 ) (271,231 ) (55,279 ) Investments in and notes receivable from unconsolidated subsidiaries   (315,818 ) Restricted cash 4,737 19,492 17,323 Other assets 5,235 44,294 264,015 Secured debt 101,962 488,464 476,883 Unsecured debtterm loan   63,000 Accounts payable, accrued and other liabilities 7,030 39,960 110,578 Deferred income tax payable, net   34,969 Minority interest in consolidated real estate partnerships 6,585 16,337 (26,827 ) Other: Conversion of common OP Units for Class A Common Stock 12,035 45,841 23,001 Conversion of preferred OP Units for Class A Common Stock 884   Origination of notes receivable from officers for Class A Common Stock purchases 1,600 7,755 10,693 Conversion of Preferred Stock into Class A Common Stock 50 234,923 11,693 Tenders payable for purchase of limited partner interest 10,037 340 19,447 See notes to consolidated financial statements.
F-7 APARTMENT INVESTMENT AND MANAGEMENT COMPANY NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS December31, 2003 NOTE 1Organization Apartment Investment and Management Company, or Aimco, is a Maryland corporation incorporated on January10, 1994. We are a self-administered and self-managed real estate investment trust, or REIT, engaged in the acquisition, ownership, management and redevelopment of apartment properties. As of December31, 2003, we owned or managed a real estate portfolio of 1,629 apartment properties containing 287,560 apartment units located in 47 states, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico. Based on apartment unit data compiled by the National Multi Housing Council, as of December31, 2003, we were the largest REIT owner and operator of apartment properties in the United States. We serve approximately one million residents per year.
As of December31, 2003, we:  owned an equity interest in and consolidated 174,172 units in 679 properties (which we refer to as "consolidated"), of which 174,068 units were also managed by us;  owned an equity interest in and did not consolidate 62,823 units in 441 properties (which we refer to as "unconsolidated"), of which 54,670 units were also managed by us; and  provided services or managed, for third party owners, 50,565 units in 509 properties, primarily pursuant to long-term agreements (including 39,428 units in 413 properties that are asset managed only, and not also property managed), although in certain cases we may indirectly own generally less than one percent of the operations of such properties through a partnership syndication or other fund.
Through our wholly owned subsidiaries, AIMCO-GP,Inc. and AIMCO-LP,Inc., we own a majority of the ownership interests in AIMCO Properties, L.P., which we refer to as the Aimco Operating Partnership. We held approximately an 89% interest in the common partnership units and equivalents of the Aimco Operating Partnership as of December31, 2003. We conduct substantially all of our business and own substantially all of our assets through the Aimco Operating Partnership. Interests in the Aimco Operating Partnership that are held by limited partners other than Aimco are referred to as "OP Units." OP Units include common OP Units, partnership preferred units, or preferred OP Units, and high performance partnership units, or High Performance Units. The Aimco Operating Partnership's income is allocated to holders of common OP Units based on the weighted average number of common OP Units outstanding during the period. The Aimco Operating Partnership records the issuance of common OP Units and the assets acquired in purchase transactions based on the market price of Aimco's ClassA Common Stock at the date of execution of the purchase contract. The holders of the common OP Units receive distributions, prorated from the date of issuance, in an amount equivalent to the dividends paid to holders of Aimco ClassA Common Stock. Holders of common OP Units may redeem such units for cash or, at Aimco's option, Aimco ClassA Common Stock, which we refer to as Common Stock. During 2003, 2002 and 2001, the weighted average ownership interest in the Aimco Operating Partnership held by the common OP Unit holders was 11%, 13%, and 13%, respectively. Preferred OP Units entitle the holders thereof to a preference with respect to distributions or upon liquidation. At December31, 2003, 93,887,040 shares of our Common Stock were outstanding and the Aimco Operating Partnership had 11,654,216 common OP Units and equivalents outstanding for a combined total of 105,541,256 shares of Common Stock and OP Units outstanding (excluding preferred OP Units).
F-8 Except as the context otherwise requires, "we," "our," "us" and the "Company" refer to Aimco, the Aimco Operating Partnership and Aimco's consolidated corporate subsidiaries and consolidated real estate partnerships, collectively.
NOTE 2Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Principles of Consolidation The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Aimco, the Aimco Operating Partnership, majority owned subsidiaries and consolidated real estate partnerships. As used herein, and except where the context otherwise requires, "partnership" refers to a limited partnership or a limited liability company and "partner" refers to a limited partner in a limited partnership or a member in a limited liability company. Interests held in consolidated real estate partnerships by limited partners other than us are reflected as minority interest in consolidated real estate partnerships. All significant intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation. The assets of consolidated real estate partnerships owned or controlled by Aimco or the Aimco Operating Partnership generally are not available to pay creditors of Aimco or the Aimco Operating Partnership.
Real Estate and Depreciation We capitalize direct costs associated with the acquisition of consolidated properties as a cost of the assets acquired, and we depreciate such direct costs over the estimated useful lives of the related assets. In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No.141, Business Combinations , or SFAS141, we allocate the purchase price of real estate to land, building, furniture, fixtures and equipment and intangibles, such as the value of above and below market leases, and origination costs associated with the in-place leases. In order to allocate purchase price on these various components we perform the following procedures for properties we acquire: 1.
Determine the "as-if vacant" fair value of the physical property acquired (this value assumes the property goes "dark"); 2.
Allocate the "as-if vacant" fair value among land, building, improvements (based on real estate valuation techniques), and furniture, fixtures and equipment; and 3.
Compute the difference between the purchase price of the property and the "as-if vacant" fair value and allocate such difference to leases in-place (based on the nature of our business, customer relationship value is assumed to be zero), which will represent the total intangible assets. The fair value of the leases in-place are comprised of: a.
The value of the above and/or below market leases in-place. Above-market and below-market in-place lease values are computed based on the difference between (i)the contractual amounts to be paid pursuant to the in-place leases and (ii)management's estimate of fair market lease rates for the corresponding in-place leases, measured over a period equal to the remaining term of the lease.
b.
Avoided leasing commissions and other costs that were incurred to execute leases.
c.
The value associated with lost rents during the absorption period (estimates of lost rental revenue during the expected lease-up periods based on current market demand).
The values of the above and below market leases are amortized over the remaining terms of the associated leases to rental income. For the values associated with avoided leasing commissions and other costs that were incurred to execute leases and the value associated with lost rents during the absorption period, amortization expense is recorded over the expected terms of the associated leases. If a resident vacates the unit prior to the contractual termination of the lease and no rental payments are being made on the lease, any unamortized balance of the related intangible will be written off.
F-9 Depreciation is calculated on the straight-line method based on a 13 to 50year life for buildings and improvements and five years for furniture, fixtures and equipment.
In 2001, we completed a comprehensive review of our real estate related depreciation including property-by-property analyses of more than 500 properties producing more than 90% of our Free Cash Flow from real estate. As a result of this review, we changed our estimate of the remaining useful lives for our real estate assets. Effective July1, 2001 for certain assets and October1, 2001 for the majority of our portfolio, we extended the useful lives of the assets from a weighted average composite life of 25years, to a weighted average composite life of 30years. This change increased net income by approximately $74million, or $0.86 per diluted share and $31million, or $0.42 per diluted share for 2002 and 2001, respectively. We believe the change reflects the remaining useful lives of the assets and is consistent with prevailing industry practice.
Redevelopment and Other Capital Expenditure Activities We capitalize direct and indirect costs (including salaries, interest, real estate taxes and other costs) incurred in connection with our capital activities. Such activities include: redevelopment; "Initial Capital Expenditures," or ICE, which are those costs we consider in our investment decision as necessary to correct deferred maintenance or improve a property; "Disposition Capital Expenditures," which are those costs made on conventional and affordable properties sold, held for sale, or identified as to-be-sold within one year and those capital expenditures made on certain affordable properties that are subject to regulatory restrictions on distribution and that are expected to be sold on completion of regulatory requirements; "Capital Enhancements," which are costs incurred that add a material new feature or increase the revenue potential of a property and "Capital Replacements," which are costs incurred to maintain the related property. We capitalize ICE, Disposition Capital Expenditures and Capital Enhancement costs and depreciate them over the estimated useful lives of the related assets, generally 5-15years. Capital Replacement expenditures in excess of $250 that maintain an existing asset with a useful life of more than one year are capitalized and depreciated over the estimated useful life of the asset. Expenditures for ordinary repairs, maintenance and apartment turnover costs are expensed as incurred.
We charge to expense as incurred indirect costs that do not relate to the above activities, including general and administrative expenses. For the years ended December31, 2003, 2002 and 2001, the impact of capitalized interest and other indirect costs on income before minority interest was $15.0million and $47.7million, $18.0million and $48.5million, and $16.8million and $52.3million, respectively. Capitalized costs are included in redevelopment, ICE, Disposition Capital Expenditures, Capital Enhancement and Capital Replacement spending and are reflected in associated returns from these related assets.
Impairment of Long-Lived Assets Real estate and other long-lived assets are recorded at cost, less accumulated depreciation, net of impairments. If events or circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of a property may be impaired, we make an assessment of the recoverability of our investment by estimating the undiscounted future cash flows, excluding interest charges, of the property. If the carrying amount exceeds the aggregate undiscounted future cash flows, we recognize an impairment loss to the extent the carrying amount exceeds the estimated fair value of the property. As of December31, 2003, based on periodic reviews, we believe that no impairments exist. No impairment losses were recognized on held for use properties for the years ended December31, 2003, 2002 and 2001.
F-10 Cash Equivalents We consider highly liquid investments with an original maturity of three months or less to be cash equivalents.
Restricted Cash Restricted cash includes capital replacement reserves, completion repair reserves, bond sinking fund amounts and tax and insurance escrow accounts held by lenders.
Accounts Receivable and Allowance for Doubtful Accounts Accounts receivable are generally comprised of amounts receivable from residents and amounts receivable from non-affiliated real estate partnerships for which we provide property management and other services. We evaluate all accounts receivable from residents and establish an allowance, after the application of security deposits, for accounts greater than 30days past due on current residents and all receivables due from former residents. Accounts receivable from residents were presented net of allowances for doubtful accounts of approximately $3.6million and $4.1million in 2003 and 2002, respectively.
We evaluate all accounts receivable from non-affiliated real estate partnerships and establish an allowance for amounts greater than 120days past due. Accounts receivable relating to non-affiliated real estate partnerships were presented net of allowances for doubtful accounts of approximately $4.1million and $3.9million in 2003 and 2002, respectively.
Accounts Receivable and Allowance for Doubtful Accounts from Affiliates Accounts receivable from affiliates are generally comprised of receivables related to property management and other services provided to the real estate partnerships in which we have an ownership interest. We evaluate all accounts receivable balances from affiliates on a periodic basis, and establish an allowance for the amounts deemed to be uncollectible. Accounts receivable from affiliates were presented net of allowances for doubtful accounts of approximately $3.5million and $4.1million in 2003 and 2002, respectively.
Deferred Costs We capitalize deferred financing fees and costs incurred in obtaining financing and amortize them over the terms of the related loan agreements. These costs are charged to interest expense.
We capitalize deferred leasing commissions and concessions incurred in connection with leasing efforts and amortize them over the terms of the related lease. These costs are charged to property operating expense and rental and other property revenue, respectively.
Advertising Costs We generally expense all advertising costs as incurred to property operating expense. Total advertising expense for the years ended December31, 2003, 2002 and 2001 was $28.7million, $19.6million and $19.4million, respectively.
Notes Receivable From Unconsolidated Real Estate Partnerships and Related Interest Income and Provision for Losses Notes receivable from unconsolidated real estate partnerships consist substantially of subordinated notes receivable (where we are the general partner and issuer), the ultimate repayment of which is subject to a number of variables, including the performance and value of the underlying real estate F-11 property and the ultimate timing of such repayments. The notes receivable reflect either loans extended by us that we carry at the face amount plus accrued interest, which we refer to as "par value notes," or loans extended by predecessors whose positions we generally acquired at a discount and that we carry at the acquisition amount using the cost recovery method, which we refer to as "discounted notes." Under the cost recovery method, we carry the discounted notes at the acquisition amount, less subsequent cash collections, until such time as collectibility of principal and interest is probable and the timing and amounts are reasonably estimable.
We assess the collectibility of each note on a periodic basis, which assessment includes a review of the property operations, the value of the underlying real estate property and the borrower's ability to repay the loan. We charge as expense loan losses on notes receivable and establish an allowance account when we believe it is probable that principal and interest will not be fully recovered.
We record income on the par value notes receivable as earned in accordance with the terms of the related loan agreements. We recognize interest income earned from our investments in discounted notes receivable based upon whether the collectibility of such amounts is both probable and reasonably estimable. We discontinue the accrual of interest on either par value or discounted notes when, in our opinion, impairment in the value of the collateral property securing the loan occurs. We record income on nonaccrual loans, or loans that are otherwise not performing in accordance with their terms, on a cost recovery basis. We ultimately collect interest income in cash or through foreclosure of the property securing the note or through obtaining an additional equity interest in the partnership that owns the property.
Based upon closed or pending transactions (which include sales, refinancings, foreclosures and rights offerings), we have determined that certain discounted notes are collectible for amounts greater than their carrying value. Accordingly, we recognize accretion income, on a prospective basis over the estimated remaining life of the loans, equal to the difference between the carrying value of the discounted notes and the estimated collectible value.
Investments in Unconsolidated Real Estate Partnerships and Gain (Loss) on Dispositions of Real Estate We own general and limited partner interests in real estate partnerships that own apartment properties. We account for investments in real estate partnerships that we do not consolidate under the equity method. Under the equity method, our share of the earnings or losses of the entity for the periods being presented is included in equity in earnings (losses) from unconsolidated real estate partnerships (see Note4).
If events or circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of real estate within our unconsolidated real estate partnerships may be impaired, we will make an assessment of the recoverability by estimating our share of the undiscounted future cash flows, excluding interest charges, of the underlying property. If the carrying amount exceeds the aggregate undiscounted future cash flows, we would recognize an impairment loss to the extent the carrying amount exceeds the estimated fair value of the real estate. For the years ended December31, 2003 and 2002, $4.1million and $5.5million, respectively, in impairments were recorded. For the year ended December31, 2001 no impairments were recorded.
When real estate assets within our unconsolidated real estate partnerships are sold, the proceeds, less the costs to sell these assets, are compared to our share of the net book value and a gain or loss is recorded and presented in gain (loss) on disposition of real estate.
Other Assets We include in other assets goodwill associated with the purchase of affordable properties and other businesses that we had previously amortized on a straight-line basis over twenty years. At December31, F-12 2003 and 2002, goodwill associated with the purchase of affordable properties and other businesses was $99.8million and $102.3million, respectively. In July2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No.142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets , or SFAS142. SFAS142 eliminates amortization of goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets and requires us to perform impairment tests at least annually on all goodwill and other indefinite lived intangible assets. We adopted the requirements of SFAS142 beginning January1, 2002, and completed for 2002 and 2003 the annual goodwill impairment testing required by SFAS142 and did not identify any impairments. For the year ended December31, 2001, we recognized goodwill amortization of $7.9million. The adoption of SFAS142 in 2001 would have increased net income by $6.9million, net of minority interest, and increased basic and diluted earnings per share by $0.10 for the year ended December31, 2001.
We also include in other assets other finite life intangible assets for purchased management contracts that we amortize on a straight-line basis over terms ranging from five to twenty years.
Capitalized Software Costs Costs related to software developed or obtained for internal use are capitalized and amortized using the straight-line method over an estimated useful life of five years. For the years ended December31, 2003, 2002 and 2001, we capitalized software development costs aggregating approximately $18.9million, $8.0million and $9.5million, respectively. At December31, 2003 and 2002, other assets included $36.7million and $30.0million of net capitalized software, respectively.
Minority Interest in Consolidated Real Estate Partnerships We reflect partners' interests in consolidated real estate partnerships as minority interest in consolidated real estate partnerships. Minority interest in consolidated real estate partnerships represents the minority partners' share of the underlying net assets of our consolidated real estate partnerships. When these consolidated real estate partnerships make cash distributions to partners in excess of their minority interest balances, we record a charge equal to the minority partners' excess of distributions over their minority interest balances, even though there is no economic effect or cost. We classify this charge in the consolidated statements of income as deficit distributions to minority partners. We allocate to minority partners losses until such time as such losses exceed the minority partners' capital account balances, in which case, we recognize 100% of the losses in operating earnings when the partnership is in a deficit equity position, even though there is no economic effect or cost. For the years ended December31, 2003, 2002, and 2001, approximately $1.5million, $7.0million, and $2.0million in depreciation related net losses were charged to operations, respectively.
Revenue Recognition Our properties have operating leases with apartment residents with terms generally of twelve months or less. We recognize rental revenue related to these leases on an accrual basis when due from residents in accordance with the Securities and Exchange Commission Staff Accounting Bulletin No.101, "Revenue Recognition in Financial Statements." In accordance with our standard lease terms, rental payments are generally due on a monthly basis. Any concessions given at the inception of the lease are amortized over the life of the lease. We recognize property management, asset management, syndication, development and other fees when earned.
Stock-Based Compensation Effective January1, 2003, we adopted the accounting provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No.123, Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation, or SFAS123, as amended by Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No.148, Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation- F-13 Transition and Disclosure-an amendment of FASB Statement No.123, or SFAS148, and applied the prospective method set forth in SFAS148 with respect to the transition. Under this method, we now apply the fair value recognition provisions of SFAS123 to all employee awards granted, modified, or settled on or after January1, 2003, which has resulted in compensation expense being recorded based on the fair value of the stock options. Prior to January1, 2003, we followed Accounting Principles Board Opinion No.25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees , or APB 25, and related interpretations in accounting. Under APB 25, because the exercise price of our employee stock options and warrants equaled the market price of the underlying stock on the date of grant, no compensation expense was recognized.
Discontinued Operations In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No.144, Accounting for the Impairment of Long-Lived Assets to be Disposed Of , or SFAS144, we classify certain properties as held for sale (see Note15). Properties classified as held for sale generally represent properties that are under contract to sell with money at risk to ensure performance of the contract and no contingencies and that are expected to sell within one year. The property operating income, interest expense and interest income are presented in discontinued operations in both current periods and all comparable periods presented. In addition, depreciation is not recorded on properties held for sale, however, depreciation expense recorded prior to classification as held for sale is included in discontinued operations. The net gain or loss (including any impairment losses) on the sale is presented in discontinued operations when recognized. The estimated proceeds, less anticipated costs to sell certain assets held for sale, were less than the net book value, and therefore we recorded impairment losses of $9.0million and $2.9million for the years ended December31, 2003 and 2002, respectively.
Derivative Financial Instruments We primarily use long-term, fixed-rate and self-amortizing non-recourse debt in order to avoid, among other things, risk related to fluctuating interest rates. For our variable-rate debt there are certain circumstances in which we may enter into short-term economic hedges, such as interest rate swap agreements and interest rate cap agreements, to reduce our exposure to interest rate fluctuations. We may use the interest rate swap agreements to moderate our exposure to interest rate risk by converting the variable-rate debt to a fixed rate. The interest rate cap agreements we may use effectively limit our exposure to interest rate risk by providing a ceiling on the underlying variable rate debt. Normally, the interest rate caps are embedded within the original debt contract and are considered clearly and closely related to the debt contract and, therefore, are not measured as separate derivative instruments. Interest rate swap agreements were not material.
Insurance We believe that our insurance coverages insure our properties adequately against the risk of loss attributable to fire, earthquake, hurricane, tornado, flood and other perils. In addition, we have self-insured retentions in workers' compensation, health insurance and general liability coverage. Losses are accrued based upon our estimates of the aggregate liability for claims incurred using certain actuarial assumptions followed in the insurance industry and based on our experience and are recorded in the operations of the investment management business.
Income Taxes For our taxable REIT subsidiaries, deferred income taxes result from temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for Federal income tax purposes, and are measured using the enacted tax rates and laws that are expected to be in effect when the differences reverse.
F-14 We have elected to be taxed as a REIT, as defined under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. As a REIT, we generally will not be subject to United States Federal income taxes at the corporate level on our net income that is distributed to our stockholders if we distribute at least 90% of our REIT taxable income to our stockholders. REITs are also subject to a number of other organizational and operational requirements. If we fail to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, our taxable income will be subject to United States Federal income tax at regular corporate rates (including any applicable alternative minimum tax). Even if we qualify as a REIT, we may be subject to certain state and local income taxes and to United States Federal income and excise taxes in various situations, such as on our undistributed income. We also will be required to pay a 100% tax on non-arms length transactions between us and a taxable REIT subsidiary and on any net income from sales of property that the IRS successfully asserts was property held for sale to customers in the ordinary course.
Certain of our operations (property management, asset management, risk, etc.) are conducted through taxable REIT subsidiaries, each of which we refer to as a TRS. A TRS is a C-corporation that has not elected REIT status and as such is subject to United States Federal corporate income tax. We use the TRS format to facilitate our ability to offer certain services and activities to our residents that are not generally considered as qualifying REIT activities.
Earnings and profits, which determine the taxability of dividends to stockholders, differ from net income reported for financial reporting purposes principally due to differences for United States Federal tax purposes in the estimated useful lives and methods used to compute depreciation and the carrying value (basis) of the investments in properties.
Earnings Per Share We calculate earnings per share based on the weighted average number of shares of Common Stock, common stock equivalents and dilutive convertible securities outstanding during the period (see Note16).
Fair Value of Financial Instruments The aggregate fair value of our cash and cash equivalents, receivables, payables and short-term secured debt as of December31, 2003 approximates their carrying value due to their relatively short-term nature. We further believe that the fair value of our variable rate secured tax-exempt bond debt and secured long-term debt also approximate their carrying value. For notes receivable, fixed rate secured tax-exempt bond debt and secured long-term debt, fair values have been based on estimates using present value techniques. Present value calculations vary significantly depending on the assumptions used, including the discount rate and estimates of future cash flows. We estimate fair value for our fixed rate debt agreements based on the quoted market prices for the same or similar issues. The fair value estimates cannot be substantiated by comparison to independent market quotes and, in many cases, may not be realized in immediate settlement of the instruments. The estimated combined fair value of our notes receivable at December31, 2003 and December31, 2002, was approximately $216million and $182million, respectively. See Note5 for further details on notes receivable. The estimated combined fair value of our secured tax-exempt bonds and secured notes payable at December31, 2003 and December31, 2002, was approximately $6.3billion and $6.2billion, respectively. See Note6 for further details on secured tax-exempt bonds and secured notes payable.
Concentration of Credit Risk Financial instruments that potentially could subject us to significant concentrations of credit risk consist principally of notes receivable. Concentrations of credit risk with respect to notes receivable are limited due to the large number of partnerships comprising our partnership base, the geographic diversity of the underlying properties, and the amount of partnership distributions.
F-15 Use of Estimates The preparation of our consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts included in the financial statements and accompanying notes thereto. Actual results could differ from those estimates.
Reclassifications Certain items included in the 2002 and 2001 financial statements amounts have been reclassified to conform to the 2003 presentation.
NOTE 3Mergers, Acquisitions and Joint Ventures GE Joint Venture On December30, 2003 we entered into an equity financing with GE Real Estate in the form of a joint venture, which we refer to the as the GE JV. At closing, we contributed to the GE JV interest in 33 of our apartment properties with a total of 9,534 units, and GE Real Estate contributed cash of which we received approximately $107million before transaction costs and funding of reserves. The 33 apartment properties we contributed had an agreed upon transaction value of approximately $346million and mortgage debt of approximately $204million that was assumed by the GE JV. We have a 25% managing member interest in the GE JV and GE Real Estate has a 75% non-managing member interest. We will continue to manage the properties and will receive a promoted interest if leveraged returns to GE Real Estate exceed 11%. Specifically, we will receive 90% of GE JV operating and disposition cash distributions once GE Real Estate exceeds an 11% leveraged return and until GE Real Estate achieves an 11.25% leveraged return. Thereafter, we will receive 95% of GE JV operating and disposition cash distributions. As a result of our control over day-to-day operations, we continue to consolidate the properties contributed to the GE JV in our consolidated financial statements and did not recognize any gain as a result of this transaction. GE Real Estate's interest in these net assets is included in minority interest in consolidated real estate partnerships.
Miami Property Acquisition On December24, 2003, we completed the acquisition of a property in Miami, Florida, which we refer to as the Miami Property Acquisition. In this acquisition, we acquired a conventional property with 357 high-rise units located on the waterfront in downtown Miami, Florida. The total cost of the acquisition included a purchase price of $57.5million for the property and $0.9million in transaction costs. We issued 88,792 common OP Units (valued at $3.5million based on $39.50 per unit), paid approximately $8.2million in cash, acquired title subject to existing mortgage indebtedness of approximately $45million of a non-recourse, long-term, fixed rate, partially amortizing note bearing interest at a rate of 7.69% per annum, and assumed approximately $1.1million of a subordinated promissory note. On December31, 2003, we repaid the outstanding balance of approximately $1.1million on the subordinated promissory note.
New York Property Acquisition On August25, 2003, we completed the acquisition of a property in New York City, which we refer to as the New York Property Acquisition. In this acquisition, we acquired a property with five contiguous conventional mid-rise apartment buildings located on the upper west side of Manhattan. These buildings include 58 residential units and 12 commercial spaces. The total cost of the acquisition included a purchase price of $37.6million for the property and $0.5million in transaction costs. We funded the acquisition through a combination of non-recourse property debt of $20million comprised F-16 of a long-term, fixed rate, partially amortizing note bearing interest at a rate of 5.25% per annum, and proceeds from property sales.
New England Properties Acquisition On August29, 2002, we completed the acquisition of 11 New England area properties, which we refer to as the New England Properties Acquisition and their results of operations were included in the consolidated statements of income from the date of acquisition. In third quarter 2003 we finalized the allocation of the aggregate $539.4million purchase price of the New England Properties Acquisition (including transaction costs of $2.5million and $34.2million of initial capital expenditures). We made adjustments to the preliminary allocation of the purchase price related to certain contingent liabilities and final evaluations of fair value.
Casden Merger On March11, 2002, we completed the acquisition of Casden Properties,Inc., or Casden, which included the merger of Casden into Aimco, and the merger of a subsidiary of Aimco into another REIT affiliated with Casden, all of which we collectively refer to as the Casden Merger. We accounted for this transaction as a purchase, and therefore, we included the results of operations in the consolidated statements of income from the date of acquisition. In first quarter 2003 we finalized the allocation of the aggregate $1.1billion purchase price of Casden (including transaction costs of $15.0million) and recorded it as follows (in thousands): Real estate $ 1,142,729 Cash and cash equivalents 7,354 Restricted cash 54,927 Investment in unconsolidated real estate partnerships 40,546 Accounts receivable 6,732 Other assets 13,755 Secured tax-exempt bond financing 219,102 Secured notes payable 465,306 Short-term debt 243,242 Accounts payable and accrued liabilities 127,692 Security deposits and deferred income 4,328 Minority interest in Aimco Operating Partnership 41,491 Stockholders' equity 164,882 We made adjustments to the preliminary allocation of the purchase price related to certain contingent liabilities and final evaluations of fair value.
In connection with the Casden Merger, we entered into an indemnification agreement with the Casden sellers that required them to indemnify us, up to a maximum of $188million, for losses incurred, including those related to: breaches of representations and warranties; breaches of covenants; and claims, suits, actions, or proceedings existing or arising prior to the merger date, among others. Under the indemnification agreement, the Casden sellers have the option to satisfy any indemnification obligation with shares of our Common Stock at a value of $47 per share. The indemnification agreement provides that 4.0million shares of our Common Stock that the Casden sellers received in the Casden Merger were subject to restrictions on transfer. The indemnification agreement also provides that the Casden sellers may use shares of our Common Stock to satisfy any obligation under the indemnification agreement, and further guarantees that for such purposes such shares will be valued at $47 per share. In the event the Casden sellers use shares of our Common Stock to satisfy their indemnification obligations, we will record contingent consideration to the extent the fair value of our Common Stock is less than $47 per share at that date. In connection with the settlement of certain obligations under the indemnification agreement in 2003 (see Note9), we received 531,915 shares of our Common Stock to satisfy an indemnification obligation of $25million, which was recorded as F-17 contingent consideration to the Casden sellers of approximately $6.9million. In addition, we have notes receivable from Alan I. Casden for an aggregate total of $35million that can be satisfied with an aggregate total of approximately 804,000 shares of our Common Stock, including shares to cover interest that will accrue over the terms of the notes, under the indemnification agreement, which may result in additional contingent consideration.
Acquisitions of Partnership Interests During 2003 and 2002, we acquired limited partnership interests in 166 partnerships and 323 partnerships, respectively, in which affiliates of ours served as general partner. During 2003, we paid approximately $26.7million, of which $25.9million was in cash and the remainder in OP Units, in connection with acquisitions in both consolidated and unconsolidated real estate partnerships. This amount was approximately $56.0million in excess of the minority interests' book value in such limited partnerships, which we generally identified to real estate. During 2002, we paid approximately $31.0million, of which $27.7million was in cash and the remainder in OP Units, in connection with such acquisitions. This amount was approximately $79.0million in excess of the minority interests' book value in such limited partnerships, which we generally identified to real estate.
In July2003, we acquired the remaining 50% interest in the partnership that owns Lincoln Place, a 795-unit apartment community in Venice, California, for a purchase price of approximately $63million, funded through a combination of cash and assumed non-recourse mortgage debt. During 2001, we acquired an approximate 50% interest in the partnership that owns Lincoln Place, which we funded through the payment of cash and the issuance of Class Nine Partnership Preferred Units, or the Class Nine Preferred Units. In connection with the July2003 transaction, we repurchased for approximately $33million all outstanding Class Nine Preferred Units that were issued in connection with the 2001 purchase and approximately 147,000 common OP Units that had been issued upon conversion of Class Nine Preferred Units issued in the 2001 purchase.
NOTE 4Investments in Unconsolidated Real Estate Partnerships We own general and limited partner interests in unconsolidated real estate partnerships owning approximately 441, 511 and 569 properties at December31, 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. We acquired these interests through acquisitions, direct purchases and separate offers to limited partners. Our total ownership interests in these unconsolidated real estate partnerships ranges from 1% to 50%. However, based on the provisions of the related partnership agreements, which grant varying degrees of control, we are not deemed to have control of these partnerships sufficient to require or permit consolidation for accounting purposes. In 2003, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Interpretation No.46 "Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, " or FIN 46, which changes the criteria for consolidating entities. We are currently evaluating our treatment of these unconsolidated real estate partnerships under FIN 46, which we will adopt in first quarter 2004 for entities in existence prior to February1, 2003 (see Note21).
The following table provides selected combined financial information for our unconsolidated real estate partnerships as of and for the years ended December31, 2003, 2002 and 2001 (in thousands): 2003 2002 2001 Real estate, net of accumulated depreciation $ 1,441,739 $ 1,569,144 $ 1,848,659 Total assets 1,809,990 1,880,982 2,212,779 Secured and other notes payable 1,704,963 1,787,756 2,854,195 Total liabilities 2,256,370 2,306,931 3,114,349 Partners' deficit (446,380 ) (425,949 ) (901,570 ) Rental and other property revenues 538,759 587,199 670,661 Property operating expenses (328,759 ) (319,685 ) (347,309 ) Depreciation expense (110,978 ) (123,489 ) (141,123 ) Interest expense (157,513 ) (176,087 ) (218,635 ) Net income 40,782 27,505 82,140 F-18 The decrease in the amounts in the above table from year to year was primarily due to dispositions of real estate owned by our unconsolidated real estate partnerships and our purchase of additional interests in, and resulting consolidation of, various partnerships previously accounted for under the equity method.
As a result of our acquisition of interests in unconsolidated real estate partnerships, the investment in these partnerships at December31, 2003 and December31, 2002 of $237.7million and $368.6million, respectively, is approximately $330million and $450million, respectively, in excess of our share of the underlying historical partners' deficit of the partnerships. The excess of the cost of the investments acquired over the equity in the underlying historical partners' deficit is primarily ascribed to the fair values of land and buildings owned by the unconsolidated real estate partnerships. We amortize the excess basis related to the buildings over their estimated useful lives, which is recorded as a component of equity in earnings (losses) of unconsolidated real estate partnerships.
NOTE 5Notes Receivable The following table summarizes our notes receivable at December31, 2003 and 2002 (in thousands): 2003 2002 Unconsolidated Real Estate Partnerships Non- Affiliates Total Unconsolidated Real Estate Partnerships Non- Affiliates Total Par value notes $ 61,584 $ 68,431 $ 130,015 $ 63,995 $ 21,646 $ 85,641 Discounted notes 81,388 340 81,728 89,010  89,010 Allowance for loan losses (5,556 )  (5,556 ) (5,413 )  (5,413 ) Total notes receivable $ 137,416 $ 68,771 $ 206,187 $ 147,592 $ 21,646 $ 169,238 Face value of discounted notes $ 136,979 $ 1,249 $ 138,228 $ 167,175 $  $ 167,175 Included in the notes receivable from unconsolidated real estate partnerships at December31, 2003 and 2002, are $30.8million and $39.0million, respectively, in notes that were secured by interests in real estate or interests in real estate partnerships. We earn interest on these notes receivable at various annual interest rates ranging between 5.5% and 12.0% and averaging 9.5%.
Included in the notes receivable from non-affiliates at December31, 2003 and 2002, are $20.9million and $12.8million, respectively, in notes that were secured by interests in real estate or interests in real estate partnerships. We earn interest on these notes receivable at various annual interest rates ranging between 4.0% and 11.3% and averaging 7.4%. Additionally, included in notes receivable from non-affiliates at December31, 2003 are notes receivable from Alan I. Casden for an aggregate of $35million (see Note3 for further details). This aggregate $35million obligation is comprised of five notes of $7million each, maturing in five consecutive years beginning in December2004. The notes include simple interest rates ranging from 1.28% to 3.20%. The notes are each collateralized by shares of our Common Stock ranging from approximately 150,000 to 173,000 shares, with an aggregate total of 804,000 shares, including shares to cover interest that will accrue over the terms of the notes.
We recognize interest income earned from our investments in notes receivable when the collectibility of such amounts is both probable and reasonably estimable. Upon determining that less than the full amount of the notes is collectible, we cease recording interest income on the impaired par value notes. Interest income from total non-impaired par value notes for the years ended December31, 2003, 2002 and 2001 totaled $15.5million, $26.6million and $26.0million, respectively.
We account for the discounted notes under the cost recovery method, which results in the discounted notes being carried at the acquisition amount, less subsequent cash collections, until such time as collectibility of principal and interest is probable and the timing and amounts are reasonably estimable. Based upon closed or pending transactions (which include sales, refinancings, foreclosures F-19 and rights offerings), we have determined that certain notes are collectible for amounts greater than their carrying value. Accordingly, we recognize accretion income, on a prospective basis over the estimated remaining life of the loans, equal to the difference between the carrying value of the discounted notes and the estimated collectible value. For the years ended December31, 2003, 2002, and 2001, we recognized accretion income on total discounted notes of approximately $3.3million ($0.03 per basic and diluted share), $36.8million ($0.37 per basic and diluted share), and $9.9million ($0.12 per basic and diluted share), respectively. We generally realize the notes receivable through collection of cash or increasing ownership of the property or of an additional equity interest in the partnership owning the property that serves as collateral for the loan.
The activity in the allowance for loan losses in total for both par value notes and discounted notes for the years ended December31, 2003 and 2002, is as follows (in thousands): 2003 2002 Balance at beginning of period $ (5,413 ) $  Provision for losses on notes receivable (2,183 ) (9,006 ) Net reductions due to property sales 1,311 991 Net reductions due to newly consolidated 729 2,602 Balance at end of period $ (5,556 ) $ (5,413 ) During 2003 and 2002, we determined that an allowance for loan losses of $4.4million and $4.1million, respectively, was required on certain of our par value notes that had carrying values of $16.3million and $10.5million, respectively. The average recorded investment in the impaired par value notes for the years ended December31, 2003 and 2002 was $14.6million and $7.5million, respectively. We believe the remaining $113.7million in par value notes receivable at December31, 2003 are collectible and, therefore, interest income on these par value notes is recognized as it is earned (see discussion above).
During 2003 and 2002, we determined that an allowance for loan losses of $1.2million and $1.3million, respectively, was required on certain of our discounted notes that had carrying values of $4.9million and $9.3million, respectively. The average recorded investment in the impaired discounted notes for the years ended December31, 2003 and 2002 was $6.3million and $11.8million, respectively.
We continue to monitor the collectibility or impairment of each note on a periodic basis, and we may make changes in the allowance due to changes in the market environment that affect operating cash flows.
NOTE 6Secured Tax-Exempt Bond Financings and Secured Notes Payable The following table summarizes our secured tax-exempt bond financings at December31, 2003 and 2002, all of which is non-recourse to us (in thousands): Weighted Average Interest Rate 2003 2002 Fixed rate secured tax-exempt bonds payable 5.85 % $ 381,878 $ 419,353 Variable rate secured tax-exempt bonds payable 2.13 % 817,482 786,201 Total $ 1,199,360 $ 1,205,554 Fixed rate secured tax-exempt bonds payable mature at various dates through October2036. Variable rate secured tax-exempt bonds payable mature at various dates through July2033. Principal and interest on these bonds are generally payable in semi-annual installments or monthly interest-only payments with balloon payments due at maturity. Certain of our tax-exempt bonds at December31, 2003 are remarketed periodically by a remarketing agent to maintain a variable yield. If the remarketing agent is unable to remarket the bonds, then the remarketing agent can put the bonds to us. We believe that the likelihood of this occurring is remote. At December31, 2003, our secured F-20 tax-exempt bond financings were secured by 82 properties with a combined net book value of $1,740.6million.
The following table summarizes our secured notes payable at December31, 2003 and 2002, all of which are non-recourse to us (in thousands): Weighted Average Interest Rate 2003 2002 Conventional fixed rate secured notes payable 7.03 % $ 4,201,897 $ 4,191,358 Conventional variable rate secured notes payable 4.22 % 42,191 22,054 Secured notes credit facility 1.91 % 205,453 181,844 Total $ 4,449,541 $ 4,395,256 Fixed rate secured notes payable mature at various dates through September2038. Variable rate secured notes payable mature at various dates through December2033. Principal and interest are generally payable monthly or monthly interest-only payments with balloon payments due at maturity. At December31, 2003, our secured notes payable were secured by 575 properties with a combined net book value of $6,946.0million.
Secured Notes Credit Facility We have a revolving credit facility of up to $250million primarily to be used for financing properties that we intend to sell, as well as properties that are under redevelopment. In addition to the amounts in the above table, there were approximately $9million and $10million of notes that were provided through this facility that are unconsolidated and not included within secured notes payable at December31, 2003 and 2002, respectively. The interest rate on the notes provided through this facility is the Fannie Mae Discounted Mortgage-Backed Security index plus 0.85%, which interest rate resets monthly. Each such loan under this facility is treated as a separate borrowing and is collateralized by a specific property, and none of the loans is cross-collateralized or cross-defaulted. This facility matures in September2007, but can be terminated and repaid in full without penalty after September2005.
Our consolidated debt instruments generally contain covenants common to the type of facility or borrowing, including financial covenants establishing minimum debt service coverage ratios and maximum leverage ratios. At December31, 2003, we were in material compliance with all financial covenants pertaining to our consolidated debt instruments.
As of December31, 2003, the scheduled principal amortization and maturity payments for our secured tax-exempt bonds and secured notes payable are as follows (in thousands): Amortization Maturities Total 2004 $ 135,849 $ 71,396 $ 207,245 2005 143,655 146,438 290,093 2006 144,774 401,336 546,110 2007 148,398 244,305 392,703 2008 152,770 208,427 361,197 Thereafter 3,851,553 $ 5,648,901 NOTE 7Mandatorily Redeemable Preferred Securities As a result of Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No.150, Accounting for Certain Financial Instruments with Characteristics of both Liabilities and Equity , or SFAS150, effective July1, 2003, we were required to reclassify the ClassS Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock, which we refer to as the ClassS Preferred Stock, and Trust Based Convertible Preferred Securities, which we refer to as TOPRS, from between the liabilities and equity section to the liabilities section of the consolidated balance sheet (see Note21 for further details on SFAS150).
F-21 On April30, 2003, we sold 4,000,000 shares ($100million) of ClassS Preferred Stock through a private placement to an institutional investor. We used the net proceeds of approximately $97million to redeem $60million of ClassC Cumulative Preferred Stock, which we refer to as the ClassC Preferred Stock (see Note13), and to pay down borrowings on our revolving credit facility. The initial dividend rate on the ClassS Preferred Stock is based on three-month LIBOR plus 2.75%. These dividends are cumulative from the date of original issuance and are payable quarterly. From the first anniversary of the date of original issuance through October31, 2004, the dividend rate on the ClassS Preferred Stock increases to the three-month LIBOR plus 6.0% with additional increases thereafter. Under SFAS150, the dividends paid on the ClassS Preferred Stock are recorded to interest expense. Effective July1, 2003 and for the year ended December31, 2003, we recorded to interest expense $2.0million of dividends paid on the ClassS Preferred Stock. ClassS Preferred Stock is senior to Common Stock and pari passu to all other classes of preferred stock as to dividends and liquidation. Upon any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of Aimco, before payments of distributions by Aimco are made to any holders of Common Stock, the holders of ClassS Preferred Stock are entitled to receive a liquidation preference of $25 per share, plus accumulated, accrued and unpaid dividends. Each share of ClassS Preferred Stock is redeemable for a maximum amount of $25 per share, plus all accrued and unpaid dividends, if any, to the date fixed for redemption, as follows: (i)at the option of the holder, upon the occurrence of certain events or (ii)at our option, at any time, with a mandatory redemption date of April30, 2043. Depending on the date fixed for redemption, the ClassS Preferred Stock is redeemable at varying per share amounts as follows: (i)on or before January31, 2004, $24.63; (ii)on or before April30, 2004, $24.75; or (iii)any time after April30, 2004, $25.00. The redemption value of the ClassS Preferred Stock at the date of adoption of SFAS150 was $97.75million. As a result, we reclassified this amount as a liability as of July1, 2003. Based on the redemption terms of the ClassS Preferred Stock, as described above, the redemption price at December31, 2003 was $98.5million. Therefore, in accordance with SFAS150, we recognized an additional liability and incurred interest expense in the amount of $0.75million in the year ended December31, 2003.
In connection with the Insignia merger in 1998, we assumed the obligations under TOPRS with an aggregate liquidation amount of $149.5million. Since 1998, approximately $134.4million of the securities have been converted, resulting in $15.1million remaining as of December31, 2003, which also represents the redemption value. The securities mature on September30, 2016 and require distributions at the rate of 6.5% per annum, with quarterly distributions payable in arrears. For the years ended December31, 2003, 2002 and 2001, $1.0million, $1.2million and $1.6million, respectively, of dividends have been recorded to interest expense. The securities are convertible by the holders at any time through September30, 2016 and may be redeemed by us on or after November1, 1999. Each $50 of liquidation value of the securities can be converted into Common Stock at a conversion price of $49.61, which equates to 1.007 shares of Common Stock. In 2003 and 2002, the holders of the securities converted approximately $0.05million and $5.5million, respectively, of the securities into approximately 1,000 and 107,000 shares of Common Stock, respectively.
NOTE 8Term Loans and Credit Facility We have two syndicated term loans. We entered into a term loan on May30, 2003, which we refer to as the Term Loan, whereby we borrowed $250million from a syndicate of financial institutions. The Term Loan matures in May2008 and is repayable at our option at any time without penalty. At December31, 2003, the Term Loan had an outstanding principal balance of $250million and an interest rate of 3.89% (based on a designated LIBOR rate plus 2.85%). In March2002, we entered into a term loan with a syndicate of financial institutions in connection with the Casden Merger, which we refer to as the Casden Loan. At December31, 2003, the Casden Loan had an outstanding principal balance of $104.4million and an interest rate of 3.98% (based on a designated LIBOR rate plus 2.85%). The Casden Loan matures in March2004, however, subsequent to December31, 2003, we extended the maturity of the Casden Loan to March2005.
F-22 We have an outstanding revolving credit facility, which we refer to as the Revolver, with a syndicate of financial institutions having aggregate lending commitments of $500million, of which $445million has been syndicated. At December31, 2003, the Revolver had an outstanding principal balance of $81.0million and an interest rate of 4.00% based on weighted average LIBOR contracts outstanding with various maturities plus 2.85%. The Revolver matures in July2005. The amount available under the Revolver at December31, 2003 and 2002 was $348million (less $22.4million outstanding for letters for credit) and $109million (less $4.2million outstanding for letters for credit), respectively. The maximum amount available for borrowing under the Revolver fluctuates based on established criteria defined therein and is typcially the $445million that has been syndicated.
The borrowers under the Term Loan and the Revolver are Aimco, the Aimco Operating Partnership, AIMCO/Bethesda Holdings,Inc. and NHP Management Company. The borrowers under the Casden Loan are Aimco, the Aimco Operating Partnership and NHP Management Company. Each of the Term Loan, the Casden Loan and the Revolver are guaranteed by certain subsidiaries of Aimco. Certain of our subsidiaries and non-real estate assets secure the obligations under each of the Term Loan, the Casden Loan and the Revolver.
We are subject to certain customary covenants under the Term Loan, Casden Loan, and Revolver each as defined therein, that require us to maintain ratios related to: debt to gross asset value; interest coverage; total obligations to gross asset value; and minimum fixed charge coverages. If the ratios related to debt to gross asset value or total obligations to gross asset value exceed certain thresholds for more than two consecutive quarters, the applicable interest rate margin increases by 0.25%. The covenants also prohibit us from paying distributions (as defined therein) in amounts that exceed 90% of our Funds from Operations, except as may be required to maintain our REIT status.
The affirmative and negative covenants, including financial covenants, contained in the Term Loan, the Casden Loan and the Revolver are substantially identical. As of December31, 2003, we were in compliance with all financial covenant requirements.
NOTE 9Commitments and Contingencies Commitments In connection with the Casden Merger, we agreed to:  purchase two properties, one of which is currently under development, upon satisfactory completion of construction and attainment of 60% occupancy, as follows:  Park La Brea  The Palazzo at Park La Breacomprised of a total of 521 units for a minimum consideration of approximately $163million, which closed subsequent to December31, 2003 (see Note22);  Palazzo East at Park La Breacomprised of a total of 610 units for a minimum consideration of approximately $199million, which was completed in December2003 and is expected to close in late 2004 or early 2005; and  Westwoodcomprised of a total of 350 units for a minimum consideration of approximately $201million, construction of which has not yet commenced.
provide a stand-by facility of $70million in debt financing associated with the development of Park La Brea and Westwood (as of December31, 2003, no funds have been drawn on this stand-by facility). Subsequent to December31, 2003 and in connection with the closing of the purchase of The Palazzo at Park La Brea, the amount of this stand-by facility was reduced to $64.5million;  invest up to $50million for a 20% limited liability company interest in Casden Properties, LLC. As of December31, 2003, we had invested $22.7million. Casden Properties, LLC acts as general contractor for the entity that is developing Park La Brea and Westwood. In addition, Casden F-23 Properties, LLC intends to pursue new development opportunities in Southern California and other markets. We will have an option, but not an obligation, to purchase at completion all multifamily rental projects developed by Casden Properties, LLC; and  pay $2.5million per quarter for five years (up to an aggregate amount of $50million) to Casden Development Company, LLC as a retainer on account for redevelopment services on our assets (as of December31, 2003, $17.5million has been paid).
Guarantees In the ordinary course of business, we provide various guarantees that are covered by the provisions of FASB's Interpretation No.45, Guarantor's Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others . These guarantees include: (i)standby letters of credit, which we may provide to enhance credit or guarantee our performance under contractual obligations; (ii)limited guarantees, which we may provide to certain of our lenders and that may require us to provide funds to maintain a required loan-to-value ratio, and (iii)guarantees in connection with our syndication of historical and affordable housing tax credits, which we may provide to make available additional funding to cover operating cash flow deficiencies, cover shortfalls related to the delivery of tax credits and cover financing shortfalls related to project development. These guarantees have varying expiration dates ranging from less than one year to fourteen years. The fair value of these guarantees issued after December31, 2002, were not material to our financial statements.
Legal In addition to the matters described below, we are a party to various legal actions and administrative proceedings arising in the ordinary course of business, some of which are covered by liability insurance, and none of which we expect to have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations taken as a whole.
Limited Partnerships In connection with our acquisitions of interests in real estate partnerships, we are sometimes subject to legal actions, including allegations that such activities may involve breaches of fiduciary duties to the partners of such real estate partnerships or violations of the relevant partnership agreements.
We may incur costs in connection with the defense or settlement of such litigation. We believe that we comply with our fiduciary obligations and relevant partnership agreements. Although the outcome of any litigation is uncertain, we do not expect any such legal actions to have a material adverse affect on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations taken as a whole.
Environmental Various Federal, state and local laws subject property owners or operators to liability for management, and the costs of removal or remediation, of certain hazardous substances present on a property. Such laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the release or presence of the hazardous substances. The presence of, or the failure to manage or remedy properly, hazardous substances may adversely affect occupancy at affected apartment communities and the ability to sell or finance affected properties. In addition to the costs associated with investigation and remediation actions brought by government agencies, the presence of hazardous substances on a property could result in claims by private plaintiffs for personal injury, disease, disability or other infirmities. Various laws also impose liability for the cost of removal, remediation or disposal of hazardous substances through a licensed disposal or treatment facility. Anyone who arranges for the disposal or treatment of hazardous substances is potentially liable under such laws. These laws often impose liability whether or not the person arranging for the disposal ever F-24 owned or operated the disposal facility. In connection with the ownership, operation and management of properties, we could potentially be liable for environmental liabilities or costs associated with its properties or properties it acquires or manages in the future.
As previously disclosed, we have been named as a defendant in lawsuits that have alleged personal injury as a result of the presence of mold. In addition, we are aware of lawsuits against owners and managers of multifamily properties asserting claims of personal injury and property damage caused by the presence of mold, some of which have resulted in substantial monetary judgments or settlements. We have only limited insurance coverage for property damage loss claims arising from the presence of mold and for personal injury claims related to mold exposure.
We have implemented a national policy and procedures to prevent or eliminate mold from our properties and believe that our measures will eliminate, or at least minimize, the effects that mold could have on our residents. To date, we have not incurred any material costs or liabilities relating to claims of mold exposure or to abate mold conditions. Because the law regarding mold is unsettled and subject to change, we can make no assurance that liabilities resulting from the presence of or exposure to mold will not have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations taken as a whole.
Other Legal Matters As previously disclosed, Aimco and four of its affiliated partnerships are defendants in a lawsuit brought by the City Attorney for the City and County of San Francisco ("CCSF") alleging violations of residential housing codes, unlawful business practices and unfair competition. The City Attorney asserts civil penalties from $500 to $1,000 per day for each affected unit, as well as other statutory and equitable relief. We have filed a cross-complaint against CCSF, its Department of Building Inspections and certain of its employees, alleging constitutional violations arising out of its arbitrary and discriminatory application of its codes, and other tortious conduct. The matter is not presently set for trial. We have engaged in extensive discussions with the City Attorney to resolve the lawsuit. In the event we are unable to resolve the lawsuit, we will assert what we believe to be meritorious defenses, vigorously defend ourselves against CCSF's claims, and vigorously prosecute our own claims against CCSF. Although the outcome of any litigation is uncertain, we do not believe that the ultimate outcome will have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations taken as a whole.
As previously disclosed, National Program Services,Inc. and Vito Gruppuso (collectively "NPS") are insurance agents who in 2000 sold to us property insurance issued by National Union Fire Insurance Company of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania ("National Union"). The financial failure of NPS resulted in defaults in June2002 under two agreements by which NPS indemnified us from losses relating to the matters described below. As a result of such defaults, we faced the risk of impairment of a $16.7million insurance-related receivable as well as certain contingent liabilities as more fully described below. We have settled our litigation with Lumbermens Mutual Casualty Company ("Lumbermens") and potential claims against an insurance agency with the result that we have received $10million and have reduced our insurance related receivable to $6.7million. In addition, we have pending litigation against National Union, First Capital Group, a New York based insurance wholesaler, NPS and other agents of National Union, for a refund of at least $10million of the prepaid premium plus other damages resulting from the cancellation of the coverage. In January2004, Gruppuso pleaded guilty to three charges of theft in New Jersey Superior Court.
As previously disclosed, with respect to the contingent liabilities arising from the NPS defaults, in November2002, Cananwill,Inc., a premium funding company, commenced litigation against us and others, alleging a balance due of $5.7million, plus interest and attorney's fees, on a premium finance agreement that funded premium payments made to National Union. We deny liability to Cananwill, believe we have meritorious defenses to assert, and will vigorously defend ourselves. In the event of an adverse determination, we will seek reimbursement of any loss from all third parties responsible for any F-25 such liability. In April2003, we filed suit against Cananwill and Combined Specialty Insurance Company, formerly known as Virginia Surety Company,Inc., in the United States District Court for the District of Colorado alleging Cananwill's conversion of $1.6million of unearned premium belonging to us and misapplication of such funds to the alleged debt asserted in the first Cananwill lawsuit. In addition, WestRMWest Risk Markets,Ltd. ("WestRM") sued XL Reinsurance America,Inc. ("XL"), Greenwich Insurance Company ("Greenwich") and Lumbermens to collect on surety bonds issued by the three allegedly to secure payment obligations due on a premium funding made by WestRM. XL and Greenwich have made us a third party defendant in this action, asserting that if they have any liability to WestRM, then we are liable to XL and Greenwich pursuant to an alleged indemnification agreement. Finally, on July11, 2003, Highlands Insurance Company ("Highlands") filed suit in a New Jersey state court against Cananwill, us, XL and Greenwich asserting our liability as a principal on surety bonds issued by Highlands in the event Highlands has any liability to Cananwill on the aforementioned Cananwill claim. We believe that we have meritorious defenses to assert, will vigorously defend ourselves against claims brought against us, and will vigorously prosecute our own claims. Although the outcome of any claim or matter in litigation is uncertain, we do not believe that we will incur any material loss in connection with the insurance-related receivable or that the ultimate outcome of these separate but related matters will have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations taken as a whole.
As previously disclosed, in 1998 and 1999, prior to the March2002 Casden Merger in which we acquired National Partnership Investments Corp. ("NAPICO"), investors holding limited partnership units in various limited partnerships of which NAPICO is the corporate general partner commenced an action (the "REAL Litigation") against NAPICO and certain other defendants (the "Casden defendants"). The claims related to activities that pre-dated the Casden Merger and included, but were not limited to, claims for breaches of fiduciary duty to the limited partners of certain NAPICO-managed partnerships and violations of securities laws by making materially false and misleading statements in the consent solicitation statements sent to the limited partners of such partnerships. On April29, 2003, the court entered judgment against NAPICO and the Casden defendants. On December30, 2003, the previously disclosed Stipulation of Settlement with the plaintiff class (the "Plaintiffs") and their counsel relating to the settlement of the REAL Litigation became effective in accordance with its terms. In connection therewith, the Casden defendants made payments in both cash ($29million) and stock ($19million) on behalf of NAPICO and the other defendants, to the Plaintiffs, and guaranteed payments in an aggregate amount of $35million ($7million per year for 5years), plus interest, by NAPICO to the Plaintiffs. The Stipulation of Settlement also resulted in the release of claims of all parties associated with the REAL Litigation, and a joint agreement by the parties to request that a new judgment be entered in the REAL Litigation to, among other things, expunge the judgment originally entered against NAPICO and the Casden defendants. In addition, on December30, 2003, the previously disclosed Settlement Agreement among the prior shareholders of Casden Properties,Inc., NAPICO and us closed in accordance with its terms. In connection therewith, (1)NAPICO voluntarily discontinued the action it commenced on May13, 2003 against the former shareholders of Casden Properties,Inc. and other indemnitors in the Casden Merger; (2)Alan I. Casden and certain related entities resolved certain pending claims for indemnification made by us, NAPICO, and affiliates of ours; (3)an affiliate of ours provided $25million of the $29million in cash that Alan I. Casden was obligated to provide under the Stipulation of Settlement in exchange for 531,915 shares of Common Stock owned by The Casden Company; and (4)The Casden Company delivered promissory notes to NAPICO in an aggregate amount of $35million ($7million per year for 5years), plus interest, on a secured, non-recourse basis. The Casden Company can satisfy its obligation set forth in item (4)above in shares of Common Stock having a value based on the greater of $47 per share or the market value of such shares at the time of payment.
F-26 A previously disclosed, on August8, 2003, the Aimco Operating Partnership was served with a complaint in the United States District Court, District of Columbia alleging that it willfully violated the Fair Labor Standards Act ("FLSA") by failing to pay maintenance workers overtime for all hours worked in excess of forty hours per week. The complaint attempts to bring a collective action under the FLSA and seeks to certify state subclasses in California, Maryland, and the District of Columbia. Specifically, the plaintiffs contend that the Aimco Operating Partnership failed to compensate maintenance workers for time that they were required to be "on-call." Additionally, the complaint alleges that the Aimco Operating Partnership failed to comply with the FLSA in compensating maintenance workers for time that they worked in responding to a call while "on-call." The complaint also attempts to certify a subclass for salaried service directors who are challenging their classification as exempt from the overtime provisions of the FLSA. The Aimco Operating Partnership has filed an answer to the complaint denying the substantive allegations. Although the outcome of any litigation is uncertain, we do not believe that the ultimate outcome will have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations taken as a whole.
Other During first quarter 2004 we responded to an informal inquiry received in December2003 from the Central Regional Office of the United States Securities and Exchange Commission seeking voluntary assistance in providing certain information and records related to certain matters. The matters included our miscalculated net rental income figures reported in certain 2003 press releases, which miscalculations were discovered during the review process normally conducted with quarter-end reporting and corrected prior to our receipt of the SEC's letter, our forecasted guidance and our accounts payable. The letter states that the inquiry should not be construed as an indication that any violation of law has occurred or as an adverse reflection on any person, entity or security. We have cooperated fully with the request. We do not believe that the ultimate outcome will have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations taken as a whole.
Operating Leases We are obligated under office space and equipment non-cancelable operating leases. In addition, we sublease certain of our office space to tenants under non-cancelable subleases. Approximate minimum annual rentals under operating leases and approximate minimum payments to be received under annual subleases for the five years ending after December31, 2003 are as follows (in thousands): Operating Lease Payments Sublease Receipts 2004 $ 5,484 $ 1,662 2005 4,955 1,485 2006 4,660 1,453 2007 4,716 1,494 2008 4,610 1,448 Total $ 24,425 $ 7,542 Substantially all of the office space and equipment subject to the operating leases described above are for the use of our corporate offices and regional operating centers. Rent expense recognized totaled $6.1million, $5.0million, and $4.5million for the years ended December31, 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. Sublease receipts totaled approximately $1.1million, $0.8million and $2.4million for the years ended December31, 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively.
NOTE 10Income Taxes Deferred income taxes reflect the net effects of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities of the taxable REIT subsidiaries for financial reporting purposes and F-27 the amounts used for income tax purposes. Significant components of our deferred tax liabilities and assets are as follows (in thousands): December31, 2003 December31, 2002 Deferred tax liabilities: Partnership differences $ 50,704 $ 49,236 Bad debt reserves 8,211 5,629 Depreciation of fixed assets 12,342 8,801 Intangibles 1,698 525 Other 1,456 992 Total deferred tax liabilities $ 74,411 $ 65,183 Deferred tax assets: Net operating and capital loss carryforward $ 19,098 $ 16,700 Receivables 11,692 9,379 Accrued liabilities 8,192 8,080 Accrued interest expense 6,349 1,772 Rehabilitation & Low Income Housing credits 3,403  Alternative Minimum Tax credits 1,231 1,231 Total deferred tax assets 49,965 37,162 Valuation allowance for deferred tax assets (1,618 ) (8,659 ) Deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowance 48,347 28,503 Net deferred tax liabilities $ (26,064 ) $ (36,680 ) Significant components of the provision (benefit) for income taxes are as follows and are classified within management and other expenses in continuing operations and discontinued operations in our statements of income for 2003, 2002 and 2001 (in thousands): Year Ended December31, 2003 Year Ended December31, 2002 Year Ended December31, 2001 Current: Federal $ 4,556 $ (302 ) $ 1,177 State 840 1,686 135 Total current 5,396 1,384 1,312 Deferred: Federal (10,065 ) (175 ) (2,978 ) State (1,150 ) (1,640 ) (341 ) Total deferred (11,215 ) (1,815 ) (3,319 ) $ (5,819 ) $ (431 ) $ (2,007 ) Classification: Continuing operations $ (17,953 ) $ (2,938 ) $ (2,007 ) Discontinued operations $ 12,134 $ 2,507 $  Consolidated income (loss) subject to tax is ($3,990,000) for 2003, $7,171,000 for 2002, and ($4,851,000) for 2001. The reconciliation of income tax attributable to continuing and discontinued operations computed at the U.S. statutory rate to income tax expense (benefit) is shown below (dollars in thousands): Year Ended December31, 2003 Year Ended December31, 2002 Year Ended December31, 2001 Amount Percent Amount Percent Amount Percent Tax at U.S. statutory rates on consolidated income (loss) subject to tax $ (1,396 ) 35.0 % $ 2,510 35.0 % $ (1,699 ) 35.0 % State income tax, net of Federal tax benefit (306 ) 7.6 % 46 0.7 % (206 ) 4.2 % Effect of permanent differences 2,202 (55.2 )% 4,143 62.2 % (276 ) 5.7 % Increase (decrease) valuation allowance (6,319 ) 158.4 % (7,130 ) (103.9 )% 174 (3.5 )% $ (5,819 ) 145.8 % $ (431 ) (6.0 )% $ (2,007 ) 41.4 % F-28 During the quarter ended March31, 2003, in an effort to streamline business processes and operational efficiencies of our property management and services businesses, we contributed all of the capital stock of NHP Management Company to AIMCO/Bethesda Holdings,Inc. (both of which are wholly-owned taxable REIT subsidiaries). In connection with this transaction, we reversed a valuation reserve related to future deductions and tax loss carryforwards of NHP Management Company and thereby recognized approximately $8.0million of deferred tax benefits, reducing management and other expenses. This deferred tax benefit increased net income by approximately $7.1million, net of minority interest, and resulted in an increase in basic and diluted earnings per share of $0.08 for the year ended December31, 2003.
Income taxes paid totaled $5,385,000, $1,189,000, and $819,000 in the years ended December31, 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively.
At December31, 2003, we had net operating loss carryforwards (NOLs) of approximately $49.0million for income tax purposes that expire in years 2012 to 2021. Subject to some limitations, we may use these NOLs to offset all or a portion of taxable income generated by our taxable REIT subsidiaries. Additionally, at December31, 2003, we had tax credit carryforwards of approximately $3.4million for income tax purposes that expire in years 2012 to 2022.
The following table reconciles our net income to REIT taxable income for the years ended December31, 2003, 2002 and 2001 (in thousands): 2003 2002 2001 Net income $ 158,857 $ 169,046 $ 107,352 Elimination of earnings from unconsolidated subsidiaries 4,897 9,725 3,830 Depreciation and amortization expense not deductible for tax (888 ) (23,763 ) 100,908 Gain on disposition of real estate property 136,211 62,146 24,709 Interest income, not currently taxable (997 ) (18,169 ) (13,308 ) Depreciation timing differences on real estate 23,263 33,777 20,701 Dividends on officer stock, not deductible for tax 2,053 2,787 2,335 Provision for loan losses 467 6,107  Limited partner deficit allocations, not deductible for tax 10,791 24,551 46,083 Transaction and project costs, deductible for tax 4,030 10,525 (5,315 ) REIT taxable income $ 338,684 $ 276,732 $ 287,295 For income tax purposes, dividends paid to holders of Common Stock consist of ordinary income, capital gains, return of capital or a combination thereof. For the years ended December31, 2003, 2002 and 2001, dividends paid per share were estimated to be taxable as follows: 2003 2002 2001 Amount Percentage Amount Percentage Amount Percentage Ordinary income $ 0.80 26 % $ 2.00 61 % $ 2.37 76 % Return of capital   0.66 20 %   Capital gains 0.77 25 % 0.23 7 % 0.19 6 % Unrecaptured Sec.1250 gain 1.49 49 % 0.39 12 % 0.56 18 % $ 3.06 100 % $ 3.28 100 % $ 3.12 100 % NOTE 11Transactions Involving Minority Interest in Aimco Operating Partnership Preferred OP Units There are various classes of preferred OP Units of the Aimco Operating Partnership that are outstanding. Depending on the terms within each class, these preferred OP Units are convertible into either Common Stock or common OP Units and are paid distributions varying from 8% to 9.5% per annum per unit, or equal to the dividends paid on Common Stock based on the conversion terms. As of December31, 2003, a total of 3.3million preferred OP Units were outstanding with a redemption value of $90.8million, which were convertible into approximately 2.5million shares of Common Stock.
F-29 As of December31, 2002, a total of 4.4million preferred OP Units were outstanding with redemption value of $118.9million, which were convertible into approximately 3.4million shares of Common Stock.
During the years ended December31, 2003 and 2002 approximately 32,000 and 310,000 preferred OP Units were tendered for redemption in exchange for approximately 22,000 and 147,000 shares of Common Stock, respectively. Additionally, during the years ended December31, 2003 and 2002, approximately 13,000 and 5,700 preferred OP Units were tendered for redemption in exchange for cash. Additionally, in July2003, we repurchased all outstanding Class Nine Preferred Units for approximately $27million (see Note3 for further information).
Common OP Units We completed tender offers for limited partnership interests and acquisitions of individual properties resulting in the issuance of approximately 23,000 and 331,000 common OP Units in 2003 and 2002, respectively. In addition, on December24, 2003, we issued 88,792 common OP Units valued at $3.5million in connection with the Miami Property Acquisition.
During the years ended December31, 2003 and 2002, approximately 35,000 and no common OP Units, respectively, were redeemed in exchange for cash and approximately 338,000 and 1,100,000 common OP Units, respectively, were redeemed in exchange for shares of Common Stock.
High Performance Partnership Units As of December31, 2003 and 2002 there were 2,379,084 ClassI High Performance Partnership Units outstanding. Additionally, there are 4,398 ClassV High Performance Partnership Units (ClassV Units) and 5,000 ClassVI High Performance Partnership Units (ClassVI Units) outstanding, for which the performance period ends December31, 2004 and December31, 2005, respectively. At December31, 2003, we did not meet the required measurement benchmarks for the ClassV Units or ClassVI Units and therefore, we have not recorded any value to such High Performance Partnership Units in the consolidated financial statements as of December31, 2003 and such High Performance Partnership Units have no dilutive effect.
NOTE 12Registration Statements On November7, 2001, Aimco and the Aimco Operating Partnership filed a shelf registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, with respect to an aggregate of $822million of debt and equity securities of Aimco and $500million of debt securities of the Aimco Operating Partnership, all of which was carried forward from Aimco's 1998 shelf registration statement. On November9, 2001, the SEC declared the registration statement effective. As of December31, 2003, Aimco had approximately $250million of debt and equity securities available and the Aimco Operating Partnership had $500million of debt securities available for sale under this registration statement.
F-30 NOTE 13Stockholders' Equity Preferred Stock At December31, 2003 and 2002, we had the following classes of preferred stock classified as equity outstanding: Balance Redemption Date(1) Conversion Ratio Annual Dividend Rate Per Share 2003 2002 (paid quarterly) (in thousands) (in thousands) Perpetual: Class C Cumulative Preferred Stock, $.01 par value, 2,400,000 shares authorized, none and 2,400,000 shares issued and outstanding(2) 12/23/2002  9.00 % $  $ 59,845 Class D Cumulative Preferred Stock, $.01 par value, 4,200,000 shares authorized, 2,700,002 and 4,200,000 shares issued and outstanding(3) 02/19/2003  8.75 % 67,500 105,000 Class G Cumulative Preferred Stock, $.01 par value, 4,050,000 shares authorized, 4,050,000 shares issued and outstanding 07/15/2008  9.375 % 101,000 101,000 Class H Cumulative Preferred Stock, $.01 par value, 2,000,000 shares authorized, none and 2,000,000 shares issued and outstanding(4) 08/14/2003  9.50 %  49,925 Class Q Cumulative Preferred Stock, $.01 par value, 2,530,000 shares authorized, 2,530,000 shares issued and outstanding 03/19/2006  10.10 % 63,250 63,250 Class R Cumulative Preferred Stock, $.01 par value, 6,940,000 shares authorized, 6,940,000 shares issued and outstanding 07/20/2006  10.00 % 173,500 173,500 Class T Cumulative Preferred Stock, $.01 par value, 6,000,000 shares authorized, 6,000,000 and no shares issued and outstanding(5) 07/31/2008  8.00 % 150,000  555,250 552,520 Convertible(6): Class L Convertible Cumulative Preferred Stock, $.01 par value, 5,000,000 shares authorized, none and 2,500,000 shares issued and outstanding(7) 05/28/2002 0.5379 10.00 %  62,500 Class M Convertible Cumulative Preferred Stock, $.01 par value, 1,600,000 shares authorized, none and 1,200,000 shares issued and outstanding(8) 01/13/2003 0.5682 9.25 %  30,000 Class N Convertible Cumulative Preferred Stock, $.01 par value, 4,000,000 shares authorized, 4,000,000 shares issued and outstanding 09/12/2003 0.4762 9.00 % 100,000 100,000 Class O Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, $.01 par value, 1,904,762 shares authorized, 1,904,762 shares issued and outstanding 09/15/2003 1.0 9.00 % 100,000 100,000 Class P Convertible Cumulative Preferred Stock, $.01 par value, 4,000,000 shares authorized, 3,999,662 shares issued and outstanding 03/26/2004 0.4464 9.00 % 99,992 99,992 299,992 392,492 Total $ 855,242 $ 945,012 All classes of preferred stock are pari passu with each other and are senior to Common Stock. The holders of each class of preferred stock are generally not entitled to vote on matters submitted to stockholders. Dividends on all shares of preferred stock are subject to being declared by our Board of Directors. All of the above have a liquidation preference per share of $25, with the exception of the ClassO Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, which has a liquidation preference per share of $52.50.
F-31 (1) All classes of preferred stock are redeemable, at our option, on and after the dates specified.
(2) On June30, 2003, using proceeds from the issuance of the ClassS Preferred Stock, we redeemed for cash all 2,400,000 outstanding shares of ClassC Preferred Stock at a redemption price per share of $25, or $60.0million, plus an amount equal to accumulated and unpaid dividends through June30, 2003, for a total of $25.475 per share.
(3) On August18, 2003, we redeemed 1,499,998 shares of ClassD Cumulative Preferred Stock, par value $0.01 per share, which we refer to as the ClassD Preferred Stock, at a redemption price of $25 per share, or $37.5million, plus an amount equal to accumulated and unpaid dividends through August18, 2003, for a total of $25.2066 per share.
(4) On August18, 2003, we redeemed all 2,000,000 outstanding shares of ClassH Cumulative Preferred Stock, par value $0.01 per share, at a redemption price of $25 per share, or $50.0million, plus an amount equal to accumulated and unpaid dividends through August18, 2003, for a total of $25.2243 per share.
(5) On July31, 2003, we sold 6,000,000 shares of ClassT Cumulative Preferred Stock, par value $0.01 per share, which we refer to as the ClassT Preferred Stock, in a registered public offering. We used the net proceeds of approximately $145million to redeem other preferred securities as described elsewhere in this note.
(6) The dividend amount shown is the greater of such amount or the dividends paid or payable on the number of shares of Common Stock into which a share of such preferred security is convertible. The initial conversion price of each class was in excess of the fair market value of a share of Common Stock on the respective commitment date. Conversion ratios listed for each class represent the number of shares of Common Stock into which one share of each of the respective classes of preferred securities is convertible.
(7) On May6, 2002, the holder of 5,000,000 shares of ClassL Convertible Cumulative Preferred Stock, par value $0.01 per share, which we refer to as the ClassL Preferred Stock, with a face value of $62.5million, converted 2,500,000 of such shares into 1,344,664 shares of Common Stock. On August18, 2003, we redeemed for cash the remaining 2,500,000 outstanding shares of ClassL Preferred Stock at a redemption price of $25 per share, or $62.5million. We paid accumulated and unpaid dividends of $0.5625 per share on August28, 2003, the scheduled dividend payment date.
(8) On August18, 2003, we redeemed for cash all 1,200,000 outstanding shares of ClassM Convertible Cumulative Preferred Stock, which we refer to as the ClassM Preferred Stock, for a total redemption price of $25.7313 per share, which included a redemption price of $25 per share, or $30.0million, $0.2313 of accumulated and unpaid dividends through August18, 2003 and a 2%, or $0.50 per share, redemption premium. We included the redemption premium in preferred dividends that are deducted from net income to arrive at net income attributable to common stockholders for the year ended December31, 2003.
On July31, 2003, the SEC clarified Topic D-42 (see Note21 for further information on Topic D-42). As a result and because of the redemption of the ClassC Preferred Stock in second quarter 2003, we were required to retroactively deduct from net income to arrive at net income attributable to common stock holders approximately $2.2million of redemption related preferred stock issuance costs associated with the ClassC Preferred Stock. This reduced by $0.02 our previously reported earnings per basic and diluted common share for the three months ended June30, 2003. Additionally, the redemptions in third quarter 2003 of the ClassH Cumulative Preferred Stock, the ClassL Preferred Stock, and the ClassM Preferred Stock and the partial redemption in third quarter 2003 of the ClassD Preferred Stock resulted in approximately $5.5million of redemption related preferred stock issuance costs being deducted from net income to arrive at net income attributable to common stockholders and thereby reduced by $0.06 our earnings per basic and diluted common share for the three months ended September30, 2003. All of these redemption related preferred stock issuance costs reduced by $0.08 our earnings per basic and diluted common share for the year ended December31, 2003.
F-32 The dividends paid on each class of preferred stock classified as equity for the years ended December31, 2003, 2002, and 2001 are as follows (in thousands, except per share data): 2003 2002 2001 Class of Preferred Stock Amount Per Share(1) Total Amount Paid Amount Per Share(1) Total Amount Paid Amount Per Share(1) Total Amount Paid Perpetual: Class C $ 1.60 (2) $ 3,840 $ 2.25 $ 5,400 $ 2.25 $ 5,400 Class D 3.21 (3) 8,677 2.19 9,188 2.19 9,188 Class G 2.34 9,492 2.34 9,492 2.34 9,492 Class H 2.01 (2) 4,011 2.38 4,750 2.38 4,750 Class Q 2.53 6,389 2.53 6,388 1.87 (10) 4,720 Class R 2.50 17,350 2.32 (7) 16,101 1.01 (10) 4,974 Class S 0.23 (4) 908     Class T 0.42 (5) 2,501     53,168 51,319 38,524 Convertible: Class B   7.95 (8) 3,334 10.25 4,297 Class K   0.58 (8) 2,500 2.00 10,000 Class L 1.81 (2) 4,532 2.21 (9) 7,892 2.03 10,125 Class M 2.42 (6) 2,903 2.13 2,550 2.13 2,550 Class N 2.25 9,000 2.25 9,000 2.25 9,000 Class O 4.73 9,000 4.73 9,000 4.73 9,000 Class P 2.25 8,996 2.25 8,996 1.25 (10) 5,000 34,431 43,272 49,972 Total $ 87,599 $ 94,591 $ 88,496 (1) Amounts per share are calculated based on the number of preferred shares outstanding either at the end of each year or as of conversion date, as noted.
(2) For the period from January1, 2003 to the date of redemption.
(3) Total amount paid includes dividends paid on all 4.2million shares of ClassD Preferred Stock until August18, 2003, when 1.5million shares were redeemed for cash.
(4) For the period from the date of issuance to July1, 2003 when SFAS150 required the Class S Preferred Shares be reclassified from equity to liabilities (see Note7).
(5) For the period from the date of issuance to December31, 2003.
(6) For the period from January1, 2003 to the date of redemption. Additionally, the amount per share includes a scheduled increase in the dividend from $2.13 per share to $2.31 per share starting after January13, 2003 and a 2%, or $0.50 redemption premium per share.
(7) For the period from the date of issuance to December31, 2002.
(8) For the period from January1, 2002 to the date of conversion to Common Stock.
(9) Total amount paid includes dividends paid on all 5.0million shares of ClassL Preferred Stock until May6, 2002, when 2.5million shares were converted into Common Stock. Additionally, the amount per share includes a scheduled increase in the dividend from $2.03 per share to $2.50 per share starting after May28, 2002.
(10) For the period from the date of issuance to December31, 2001.
Common Stock During 2003 and 2002, we issued approximately 50,000 shares and 188,000 shares, respectively, of Common Stock to certain officers at market prices. In exchange for the shares purchased, the officers (or entities controlled by them) executed notes payable totaling $1.6million and $7.8million, F-33 respectively. These notes, which are 25% recourse to the holder, have a 10-year maturity and bear interest at rates ranging from a floating rate based on the one-month LIBOR plus 3.85% to a fixed rate of 7.25% annually. Total payments on such notes from officers in 2003 and 2002 were $10.5million and $5.3million, respectively.
In addition, in 2003 and 2002, we issued approximately 215,000 and 80,000 restricted shares of Common Stock, respectively, to certain officers and employees. The restricted stock was issued at the fair market value of the Common Stock on the date of issuance. These shares of restricted Common Stock may not be sold, assigned, transferred, pledged, hypothecated or otherwise disposed of and are subject to a risk of forfeiture prior to the expiration of the applicable vesting period (typically 3 to 5years).
During the year ended December31, 2003, we accepted approximately 532,000 shares of Common Stock as payment in full of an obligation pursuant to the terms of the settlement agreement associated with the REAL Litigation (as described in Note9).
NOTE 14Stock Option Plans and Stock Warrants We adopted the 1994 Stock Option Plan of Apartment Investment and Management Company, or the 1994 Plan, the Apartment Investment and Management Company 1996 Stock Award and Incentive Plan, or the 1996 Plan, the Apartment Investment and Management Company 1997 Stock Award and Incentive Plan, or the 1997 Plan, and the Apartment Investment and Management Company Non-Qualified Employee Stock Option Plan, or the Non-Qualified Plan, to attract and retain officers, key employees and independent directors. The 1994 Plan provides for the granting of a maximum of 150,000 options to purchase Common Stock. The 1996 Plan provides for the granting of a maximum of 500,000 options to purchase Common Stock. The 1997 Plan provides for the granting of a maximum of 20,000,000 options to purchase Common Stock. The Non-Qualified Plan provides for the granting of a maximum of 500,000 options to purchase Common Stock. The 1994 Plan, the 1996 Plan and the 1997 Plan allow for the grant of incentive and non-qualified stock options, and together with the Non-Qualified Plan, which provides for the grant of non-qualified options only, are administered by the Compensation and Human Resources Committee of the Board of Directors. The 1994 Plan also provides for a formula grant of the non-qualified stock options to the independent directors to be administered by the Board of Directors to the extent necessary. In the case of incentive stock options, the exercise price of the options granted may not be less than the fair market value of the common stock at the date of grant. The term of the incentive and non-qualified options is ten years from the date of grant. The options typically vest over a period of one to five-years from the date of grant. Terms may be modified at the discretion of the Compensation and Human Resources Committee of the Board of Directors.
The 1997 Plan also authorizes grants of restricted stock awards as part of our equity compensation plan. For the years ended December31, 2003, 2002 and 2001, we granted restricted stock awards of approximately 215,000, 80,000 and 172,000 shares, respectively, with weighted average fair values per share of $38.09, $43.65, and $47.82, respectively. These awards are amortized to compensation expense over the applicable vesting period (typically 3 to 5years). Dividends paid on restricted stock awards (whether vested or unvested) are charged to distributions in excess of earnings. We evaluate quarterly the previously paid dividends on restricted stock awards that are forfeited to determine if a reclassification between distributions in excess of earnings and compensation expense should be recorded. Dividends paid on restricted stock awards that were forfeited were immaterial for the years ended December31, 2003, 2002 and 2001.
Effective January1, 2003, we adopted the accounting provisions of SFAS123, as amended by SFAS148, and applied the prospective method set forth in SFAS148 with respect to the transition. Under this method, we now apply the fair value recognition provisions of SFAS123 to all employee F-34 awards granted, modified, or settled on or after January1, 2003, which has resulted in compensation expense being recorded based on the fair value of the stock options. Prior to January1, 2003, we followed APB 25 and related interpretations in accounting. Under APB 25, because the exercise price of our employee stock options and warrants equaled the market price of the underlying stock on the date of grant, no compensation expense was recognized.
For purposes of the pro forma disclosures below, the estimated fair values for all awards made prior to January1, 2003 are amortized over the respective vesting period for each such option and are shown as expense as if SFAS123 had been applied to all such awards. Pro forma information regarding net income and earnings per share is required by SFAS123, which also requires that the information be determined as if we had accounted for our employee stock options and warrants granted subsequent to December31, 1994 under the fair value method. The fair value for these options and warrants was estimated at the date of grant using a Black-Scholes valuation model with the following assumptions: 2003 2002 2001 Risk free interest rate 3.5% 4.2% 4.4% Expected dividend yield 9.0% 7.5% 6.9% Volatility factor of the expected market price of our Common Stock 0.195 0.210 0.193 Weighted average expected life of options 5.0 years 4.5 years 4.5 years The Black-Scholes valuation model was developed for use in estimating the fair value of traded options and for warrants that have no vesting restrictions and are fully transferable. In addition, the valuation model requires the input of highly subjective assumptions including the expected stock price volatility. Our stock options and warrants have characteristics significantly different from those of traded options and warrants; therefore, changes in the subjective input assumptions can materially affect the fair value estimate.
The following table illustrates the effect on net income and earnings per share if the fair value based method had been applied to all outstanding and unvested awards in each period presented. Our F-35 pro forma information for the years ended December31, 2003, 2002 and 2001 is as follows (in thousands, except per share data): 2003 2002 2001 Net income attributable to common stockholders, as reported $ 65,292 $ 75,488 $ 17,021 Add: Stock-based employee compensation expense included in reported net income: Restricted stock awards 4,088 4,233 2,767 Stock options 892   Deduct: Total stock-based employee compensation expense determined under fair value based method for all awards: Restricted stock awards (4,088 ) (4,233 ) (2,767 ) Stock options (8,084 ) (8,721 ) (3,725 ) Add: Additional minority interest in Aimco Operating Partnership 827 1,134 484 Pro forma net income attributable to common stockholders $ 58,927 $ 67,901 $ 13,780 Basic earnings per common share: Reported $ 0.70 $ 0.88 $ 0.23 Pro forma $ 0.63 $ 0.79 $ 0.19 Diluted earnings per common share: Reported $ 0.70 $ 0.87 $ 0.23 Pro forma $ 0.63 $ 0.78 $ 0.19 The effects of applying SFAS123 in calculating pro forma income attributable to common stockholders and pro forma basic and diluted earnings per share may not necessarily be indicative of the effects of applying SFAS123 to future years' earnings.
F-36 The following table summarizes the option and warrant activity for the years ended December31, 2003, 2002 and 2001: 2003 2002 2001 Options and Warrants Weighted Average Exercise Price Options and Warrants Weighted Average Exercise Price Options and Warrants Weighted Average Exercise Price Outstanding at beginning of year 9,269,000 $ 40.13 8,323,000 $ 38.71 8,235,000 $ 37.80 Granted 1,757,000 36.37 2,070,000 43.79 1,126,000 47.18 Exercised (72,000 ) 37.46 (1,054,000 ) 36.05 (547,000 ) 34.94 Forfeited (347,000 ) 37.67 (70,000 ) 41.17 (491,000 ) 38.34 Outstanding at end of year 10,607,000 $ 39.59 9,269,000 $ 40.13 8,323,000 $ 38.71 Exercisable at end of year 5,844,000 $ 38.46 4,295,000 $ 38.09 3,925,000 $ 37.31 Weighted-average fair value of options granted during the year $ 2.26 $ 3.52 $ 3.92 As of December31, 2003, outstanding and exercisable options and warrants have the following ranges of exercise prices and remaining weighted-average contractual lives: Range of Exercise Price $17.13 to $35.75 $36.35 to $39.94 $40.00 to $49.05 Total Outstanding: Number of options and warrants 86,000 6,890,000 3,631,000 10,607,000 Weighted average exercise price $29.85 $37.22 $44.30 $39.59 Weighted average remaining life 4.23 years 5.53 years 6.99 years 6.02 years Exercisable: Number of options and warrants 57,000 4,773,000 1,014,000 5,844,000 Weighted average exercise price $27.12 $37.47 $43.74 $38.46 Weighted average remaining life 1.87 years 4.28 years 5.07 years 4.39 years On December2, 1997, Aimco issued warrants, which we refer to as the Oxford Warrants, exercisable to purchase up to an aggregate of 500,000 shares of Common Stock at $41 per share. The Oxford Warrants were issued to affiliates of Oxford Realty Financial Group,Inc., a Maryland corporation, or Oxford, in connection with the amendment of certain agreements pursuant to which we manage properties formerly controlled by Oxford or its affiliates. The Oxford Warrants were amended in connection with the acquisition of the Oxford entities in September2000, are currently exercisable and expire on December31, 2006.
NOTE 15Discontinued Operations and Assets Held for Sale In October2001, FASB issued SFAS144. SFAS144 establishes criteria beyond those previously specified in Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No.121, Accounting for the Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and for Long-Lived Assets to be Disposed Of , or SFAS121, to determine when a long-lived asset is classified as held for sale, and it provides a single accounting model for the disposal of long-lived assets. SFAS144 was effective beginning January1, 2002. Due to the adoption of SFAS144, we now report as discontinued operations real estate assets held for sale (as defined by SFAS144) and real estate assets sold in the current period. We included all results of these discontinued operations, less applicable income taxes, in a separate component of income on the consolidated statements of income under the heading "discontinued operations." This change resulted in certain reclassifications of 2002 and 2001 financial statement amounts.
At December31, 2003, we had ten properties with an aggregate of 2,192 units classified as held for sale. For the years ended December31, 2003, 2002 and 2001, we included the results of operations of these properties in discontinued operations. During the year ended December31, 2003, we sold 72 properties with an aggregate of 18,291 units. For the years ended December31, 2003, 2002 and 2001, F-37 we also included in discontinued operations the results of operations of these 72 properties before the sale and the related gain/loss on sale. During 2002, we sold 42 properties with an aggregate of 8,547 units. For the years ended December31, 2002 and 2001, we also included in discontinued operations the results of operations of these 42 properties before the sale and the related gain/loss on sale.
The following is a summary of the components of income from discontinued operations for the years ended December31, 2003, 2002 and 2001 (dollars in thousands): 2003 2002 2001 RENTAL PROPERTY OPERATIONS: Rental and other property revenues $ 86,923 $ 169,206 $ 174,439 Property operating expense (43,252 ) (73,054 ) (74,041 ) Income from property operations 43,671 96,152 100,398 Depreciation of rental property (17,765 ) (33,484 ) (43,059 ) Interest expense (17,752 ) (38,867 ) (42,992 ) Interest and other income 105 569 552 Minority interest in consolidated real estate partnerships (323 ) (1,178 ) 574 Income from operations 7,936 23,192 15,473 Gain (loss) on dispositions of real estate, net of minority partners' interest 101,849 (6,021 )  Impairment losses on real estate assets sold or held for sale (8,991 ) (2,937 )  Deficit distributions to minority partners 10,718 (1,321 ) (1,342 ) Income tax arising from disposals (12,134 ) (2,507 )  Minority interest in Aimco Operating Partnership (11,230 ) (1,311 ) (1,894 ) Income from discontinued operations $ 88,148 $ 9,095 $ 12,237 We are currently marketing for sale certain real estate properties that are inconsistent with our long-term investment strategy. We expect that all properties classified as held for sale will sell within one year from the date classified as held for sale. Assets classified as held for sale of $89.9million at December31, 2003 include real estate net book value of $63.0million and restricted cash and other assets of $26.9million. Liabilities related to assets classified as held for sale of $45.5million at December31, 2003 include mortgage debt of $40.7million. Assets classified as held for sale of $390.0million at December31, 2002 include real estate net book value of $308.3million, represented by 46 properties with 11,014 units that were classified as assets held for sale during 2002 and 2003. Liabilities related to assets classified as held for sale of $285.9million at December31, 2002 include mortgage debt of $226.9million. The estimated proceeds, less anticipated costs to sell certain of these assets, were less than the net book value, and therefore we recorded impairments of $9.0million and $2.9million for the years ended December31, 2003 and 2002, respectively. We are also marketing for sale properties other than those above, both consolidated and unconsolidated that are not accounted for as assets held for sale because they do not meet the criteria under SFAS144.
NOTE 16Earnings per Share We calculate earnings per share based on the weighted average number of shares of Common Stock, common stock equivalents and dilutive convertible securities outstanding during the period. The F-38 following table illustrates the calculation of basic and diluted earnings per share for the years ended December31, 2003, 2002 and 2001 (in thousands, except per share data): 2003 2002 2001 Numerator: Income from continuing operations $ 70,709 $ 159,951 $ 95,115 Less: Net income attributable to preferred stockholders (93,565 ) (93,558 ) (90,331 ) Numerator for basic and diluted earnings per shareIncome (loss) from continuing operations $ (22,856 ) $ 66,393 $ 4,784 Net income $ 158,857 $ 169,046 $ 107,352 Less: Net income attributable to preferred stockholders (93,565 ) (93,558 ) (90,331 ) Numerator for basic and diluted earnings per shareNet income attributable to common stockholders $ 65,292 $ 75,488 $ 17,021 Denominator: Denominator for basic earnings per share  weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding 92,850 85,698 72,458 Effect of dilutive securities: Dilutive potential common shares 118 1,075 1,190 Denominator for diluted earnings per share 92,968 86,773 73,648 Earnings (loss) per common share: Basic earnings (loss) per common share: Income (loss) from continuing operations (net of preferred dividends) $ (0.25 ) $ 0.77 $ 0.07 Income from discontinued operations 0.95 0.11 0.16 Net income attributable to common stockholders $ 0.70 $ 0.88 $ 0.23 Diluted earnings (loss) per common share: Income (loss) from continuing operations (net of preferred dividends) $ (0.25 ) $ 0.77 $ 0.06 Income from discontinued operations 0.95 0.10 0.17 Net income attributable to common stockholders $ 0.70 $ 0.87 $ 0.23 The ClassN Convertible Cumulative Preferred Stock, the ClassO Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock and the ClassP Convertible Cumulative Preferred Stock are convertible into Common Stock (see Note13). The ClassD Cumulative Preferred Stock, the ClassG Cumulative Preferred Stock, the ClassQ Cumulative Preferred Stock, the ClassR Cumulative Preferred Stock, the ClassS Preferred Stock and the ClassT Preferred Stock are not convertible. All of our convertible preferred stock is anti-dilutive on an "as converted" basis, therefore, we deduct all of the dividends payable on the convertible preferred stock to arrive at the numerator and no additional shares are included in the denominator. We have excluded from diluted earnings per share the common share equivalents related to approximately 9.0million and 3.6million of vested and unvested stock options, shares issued for non-recourse notes receivable, and restricted stock awards for the years ended December31, 2003 and 2002, respectively, because their effect would be anti-dilutive. For the year ended December31, 2001, we did not exclude any material amounts of vested and unvested stock options, non-recourse shares or restricted stock awards because their effect was dilutive. For purposes of calculating diluted earnings per share in accordance with Statement on Financial Accounting Standard 128, Earnings per Share, we treat the unvested portion of restricted shares as common stock equivalents.
F-39 NOTE 17Unaudited Summarized Consolidated Quarterly Information and Significant Adjustments Summarized unaudited consolidated quarterly information for 2003 and 2002 is provided below (amounts in thousands, except per share amounts).
Quarter(1) Year Ended December 31, 2003 First Second Third Fourth Rental and other property revenues $ 353,638 $ 361,969 $ 367,452 $ 362,737 Property operating expenses (156,887 ) (157,784 ) (165,307 ) (162,719 ) Management fees and other income primarily from affiliates 15,638 18,336 17,387 19,126 Management and other expenses (6,884 ) (9,646 ) (12,549 ) (21,495 ) Income from continuing operations 22,632 25,092 14,780 8,205 Income (loss) from discontinued operations (809 ) 34,138 25,855 28,964 Net income 21,823 59,230 40,635 37,169 Earnings (loss) per common sharebasic: Income (loss) from continuing operations (net of preferred dividends) $ 0.01 $ 0.00 $ (0.13 ) $ (0.12 ) Net income attributable to common stockholders $ 0.00 $ 0.37 $ 0.15 $ 0.19 Earnings (loss) per common sharediluted: Income (loss) from continuing operations (net of preferred dividends) $ 0.01 $ 0.00 $ (0.13 ) $ (0.12 ) Net income attributable to common stockholders $ 0.00 $ 0.37 $ 0.15 $ 0.19 Weighted average common shares outstanding 92,692 92,747 92,839 93,122 Weighted average common shares and common share equivalents outstanding 92,692 92,832 93,049 93,206 Quarter(1) Year Ended December 31, 2002 First Second Third Fourth Rental and other property revenues $ 291,037 $ 319,547 $ 328,089 $ 353,679 Property operating expenses (109,643 ) (126,906 ) (134,658 ) (144,156 ) Management fees and other income primarily from affiliates 21,632 24,055 22,305 27,487 Management and other expenses (13,813 ) (15,193 ) (18,150 ) (16,875 ) Income from continuing operations 57,163 58,380 42,148 2,260 Income (loss) from discontinued operations 12,896 (12,347 ) 4,197 4,349 Net income 70,059 46,033 46,345 6,609 Earnings (loss) per common sharebasic: Income (loss) from continuing operations (net of preferred dividends) $ 0.42 $ 0.41 $ 0.22 $ (0.21 ) Net income (loss) attributable to common stockholders $ 0.59 $ 0.26 $ 0.26 $ (0.17 ) Earnings (loss) per common sharediluted: Income (loss) from continuing operations (net of preferred dividends) $ 0.42 $ 0.40 $ 0.22 $ (0.21 ) Net income (loss) attributable to common stockholders $ 0.58 $ 0.26 $ 0.26 $ (0.17 ) Weighted average common shares outstanding 74,845 83,655 91,831 92,460 Weighted average common shares and common share equivalents outstanding 76,240 85,552 92,735 92,460 (1) Certain reclassifications have been made to 2003 and 2002 quarterly amounts to conform to the full year 2003 presentation, including certain intercompany eliminations, as well as the treatment of discontinued operations.
During the quarter ended March31, 2003, we reversed a valuation reserve against certain deferred tax assets related to future deductions and tax loss carryforwards of NHP Management Company that increased our net income by approximately $7.1million and our basic and dilute earnings per share by $0.08 for the year ended December31, 2003. See Note10 for further details.
During the quarter ended December31, 2002, we recorded in gain (loss) on dispositions of real estate a loss of $38.0million. This $38.0million loss resulted primarily from a change in estimate due to better insight into information related to the finalization of the recording of purchase price accounting to appropriate entities acquired in past acquisitions and the related historical estimation process in determining the carrying value of assets sold. The recognition of this amount in that period F-40 is considered to be a change in estimate associated with the historical estimated gain or loss on the sale of these properties. In the prior quarters, we had recognized a gain of approximately $10.0million related to this same change in estimate, resulting in a total change in estimate for the year ended December31, 2002 of $28.0million. The recognition of this change in estimate resulted in a decrease in basic and diluted earnings per share of $0.28 for the year ended December31, 2002.
NOTE 18Business Segments We have two reportable segments: real estate (owning and operating apartments) and investment management business (providing property management and other services relating to the apartment business to third parties and affiliates). We own and operate properties throughout the United States and Puerto Rico that generate rental and other property related income through the leasing of apartment units to a diverse base of residents. We separately evaluate the performance of each of our properties. However, because each of our properties has similar economic characteristics, the properties have been aggregated into a single apartment communities, or real estate, segment. We consider disclosure of different components of the multifamily housing business to be useful.
All real estate revenues are from external customers and no revenues are generated from transactions with other segments. A significant portion of the revenues earned in the investment management business are from transactions with affiliates in the real estate segment. No single resident or related group of residents contributed 10% or more of total revenues during the years ended December31, 2003, 2002 or 2001.
Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No.131, Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information , or SFAS131, requires that segment disclosures present the measure(s) used by the chief operating decision maker for purposes of assessing such segments' performance. Our chief operating decision maker is comprised of several members of our executive management team who use several generally accepted industry financial measures to assess the performance of the business. Specifically, our chief operating decision makers use free cash flow, funds from operations and adjusted funds from operations to assess the financial performance of our business. See note(3) below for an explanation of these measures.
Certain reclassifications have been made to 2002 and 2001 amounts to conform to the 2003 presentation. These reclassifications primarily represent presentation changes related to discontinued operations resulting from the requirements of SFAS144 and intercompany eliminations. In addition, on October1, 2003, the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts, or NAREIT, clarified its definition of funds from operations to include impairment losses, which previously had been added back to calculate funds from operations. Beginning in third quarter 2003, and effective for all prior periods presented, in accordance with this clarification, we no longer add back impairment losses when computing funds from operations. As a result, funds from operations for the year ended December31, 2003, includes an adjustment of $13.1million to reflect this change. Funds from operations for the year ended December31, 2002 includes an adjustment of $8.5million to reflect this change. Finally, as a result of the SEC's interpretation of Topic D-42, beginning in third quarter 2003 and effective for all prior periods, we included in funds from operations redemption related preferred stock issuance costs. Therefore, funds from operations for the year ended December31, 2003 include issuance costs of approximately $7.6million to reflect this change.
The following tables present the contribution (separated between consolidated and unconsolidated activity) to our free cash flow for the years ended December31, 2003, 2002 and 2001, from these segments, and a reconciliation of free cash flow, funds from operations, and adjusted funds from operations, to net income (in thousands, except ownership equivalent units and monthly rents): F-41 FREE CASH FLOW FROM BUSINESS SEGMENTS For the Years Ended December31, 2003, 2002 and 2001 (in thousands, except unit and monthly rents data) 2003 Consolidated Unconsolidated Total % Real Estate Conventional Average monthly rent greater than $1,200 per unit (equivalent units of 9,929, 8,464 and 4,589 for 2003, 2002 and 2001) $ 95,748 $ 3,709 $ 99,457 14.0 % Average monthly rent $1,000 to $1,200 per unit (equivalent units of 9,726, 6,789 and 4,484 for 2003, 2002 and 2001) 78,750 1,464 80,214 11.3 % Average monthly rent $900 to $1,000 per unit (equivalent units of 13,325, 11,272 and 8,440 for 2003, 2002 and 2001) 93,212 1,796 95,008 13.4 % Average monthly rent $800 to $900 per unit (equivalent units of 8,682, 12,217 and 12,368 for 2003, 2002 and 2001) 49,484 1,283 50,767 7.2 % Average monthly rent $700 to $800 per unit (equivalent units of 14,972, 17,412 and 16,954 for 2003, 2002 and 2001) 73,869 2,846 76,715 10.8 % Average monthly rent $600 to $700 per unit (equivalent units of 31,955, 31,849 and 33,194 for 2003, 2002 and 2001) 129,781 4,663 134,444 19.0 % Average monthly rent $500 to $600 per unit (equivalent units of 34,388, 29,518 and 28,554 for 2003, 2002 and 2001) 103,608 3,646 107,254 15.1 % Average monthly rent less than $500 per unit (equivalent units of 17,084, 13,453 and 12,129 for 2003, 2002 and 2001) 31,849 1,892 33,741 4.8 % Subtotal conventional real estate contribution to Free Cash Flow (equivalent units of 140,061, 130,975 and 120,712 for 2003, 2002 and 2001) 656,301 21,299 677,600 95.6 % Affordable (equivalent units of 21,771, 19,741 and 12,370 for 2003, 2002 and 2001) 50,914 22,455 73,369 10.4 % University communities (equivalent units of 2,430, 2,589 and 2,841 for 2003, 2002 and 2001) 9,525 349 9,874 1.4 % Other real estate 3,305 (1 ) 3,304 0.5 % Minority partners' interest (69,373 )  (69,373 ) (9.8 )% Total real estate contribution to Free Cash Flow 650,672 (1) 44,102 694,774 98.1 % Investment Management Business Management contracts (property, risk and asset management) Controlled Properties 7,249  7,249 1.0 % Third party with terms in excess of one year 1,190  1,190 0.2 % Third party cancelable in 30days 684  684 0.1 % Insurance claim losses (2,694 )  (2,694 ) (0.4 )% Investment management business contribution to Free Cash Flow before activity based fees 6,429  6,429 0.9 % Activity based fees 13,484  13,484 1.9 % Total investment management business contribution to Free Cash Flow 19,913 (2)  19,913 2.8 % Interest and Other Income General partner loan interest 15,504  15,504 2.2 % Transactional income 3,285  3,285 0.5 % Money market and interest bearing accounts 6,231  6,231 0.9 % Total interest and other income contribution to Free Cash Flow 25,020  25,020 3.6 % General and administrative expenses (28,815 )  (28,815 ) (4.2 )% Provision for losses on accounts, fees and notes receivable (2,183 )  (2,183 ) (0.3 )% Free Cash Flow (FCF)(3) $ 664,607 $ 44,102 $ 708,709 100.0 % F-42 FREE CASH FLOW FROM BUSINESS SEGMENTS For the Years Ended December31, 2003, 2002 and 2001 (in thousands, except unit and monthly rents data) 2002 2001 Consolidated Unconsolidated Total % Consolidated Unconsolidated Total % $ 84,623 $ 3,630 $ 88,253 11.7 % $ 41,979 $ 5,674 $ 47,653 6.5 % 54,125 2,880 57,005 7.6 % 43,468 3,145 46,613 6.3 % 85,169 3,153 88,322 11.7 % 69,776 2,662 72,438 9.8 % 77,537 2,334 79,871 10.6 % 88,503 4,986 93,489 12.7 % 89,646 6,296 95,942 12.7 % 92,509 8,842 101,351 13.7 % 130,492 11,861 142,353 18.9 % 158,856 14,706 173,562 23.5 % 89,803 10,135 99,938 13.3 % 92,074 12,458 104,532 14.2 % 23,853 1,105 24,958 3.3 % 27,133 2,297 29,430 4.0 % 635,248 41,394 676,642 89.8 % 614,298 54,770 669,068 90.7 % 46,407 20,703 67,110 8.9 % 16,928 26,096 43,024 5.8 % 12,277 281 12,558 1.7 % 12,624 393 13,017 1.8 % 4,194 106 4,300 0.6 % 895 460 1,355 0.2 % (76,214 )  (76,214 ) (10.1 )% (82,627 )  (82,627 ) (11.2 )% 621,912 (1) 62,484 684,396 90.9 % 562,118 (1) 81,719 643,837 87.3 % 26,156  26,156 3.5 % 40,617  40,617 5.5 % 2,364  2,364 0.3 % 1,758  1,758 0.2 % 1,049  1,049 0.1 % 2,459  2,459 0.3 % (7,021 )  (7,021 ) (0.9 )% (6,343 )  (6,343 ) (0.9 )% 22,548  22,548 3.0 % 38,491  38,491 5.1 % 8,900  8,900 1.2 % 13,782  13,782 1.9 % 31,448 (2)  31,448 4.2 % 52,273 (2)  52,273 7.0 % 26,584  26,584 3.5 % 25,995  25,995 4.9 % 44,539  44,539 5.9 % 36,039  36,039 3.5 % 6,159  6,159 0.8 % 11,881  11,881 1.6 % 77,282  77,282 10.2 % 73,915  73,915 10.0 % (30,544 )  (30,544 ) (4.1 )% (24,930 )  (24,930 ) (3.4 )% (9,006 )  (9,006 ) (1.2 )% (6,646 )  (6,646 ) (0.9 )% $ 691,092 $ 62,484 $ 753,576 100.0 % $ 656,730 $ 81,719 $ 738,449 100.0 % F-43 FREE CASH FLOW FROM BUSINESS SEGMENTS For the Years Ended December31, 2003, 2002 and 2001 (in thousands, except per share data) 2003 Consolidated Unconsolidated Total Free Cash Flow (FCF)(3) $ 664,607 $ 44,102 $ 708,709 Cost of Senior CapitalInterest expense: Secured debtLong-term, fixed rate (313,912 ) (30,113 ) (344,025 ) Secured debtLong-term, variable rate (25,986 ) (1,100 ) (27,086 ) Secured debtShort-term (19,413 ) (240 ) (19,653 ) Lines of credit and other unsecured debt (24,160 )  (24,160 ) Interest expense on mandatorily redeemable preferred securities (2,767 )  (2,767 ) Interest expense on mandatorily redeemable convertible preferred securities (987 )  (987 ) Interest capitalized 14,479 516 14,995 Total interest expense before minority partners' interest (372,746 ) (30,937 ) (403,683 ) Minority partners' interest share of interest expense 37,221  37,221 Total interest expense after minority partners' interest (335,525 ) (30,937 ) (366,462 ) Distributions on preferred OP units (9,312 )  (9,312 ) Dividends on preferred securities owned by minority interest    Dividends on preferred stock (93,565 )  (93,565 ) Total dividends/distributions on preferred OP Units and securities (102,877 )  (102,877 ) Capital Replacements/Enhancements 83,054 6,235 89,289 Amortization of intangibles (6,702 )  (6,702 ) Gain (loss) on dispositions of real estate 3,178  3,178 Impairment loss on investment in unconsolidated real estate partnerships (4,122 )  (4,122 ) Income from discontinued operations 88,148  88,148 Depreciation of rental property, net of minority partners' interest (298,255 ) (25,817 ) (324,072 ) Deficit distributions to minority partners (22,672 )  (22,672 ) Minority interest in Aimco Operating Partnership, common 2,875  2,875 Net income (loss) attributable to common stockholders 71,709 (6,417 ) 65,292 (Gain) loss on dispositions of real estate (3,178 )  (3,178 ) Discontinued operations: Loss (gain) on dispositions of real estate, net of minority partners' interest (101,849 )  (101,849 ) Depreciation of rental property, net of minority partners' interest 14,906  14,906 Deficit distributions to minority partners (10,718 )  (10,718 ) Income tax arising from disposals 12,134  12,134 Gain on disposition of land    Depreciation of rental property, net of minority partners' interest 298,255 25,817 324,072 Deficit distributions to minority partners 22,672  22,672 Amortization of intangibles 6,702  6,702 Deferred income tax benefit    Minority interest in Aimco Operating Partnership's share of above adjustments (29,910 )  (29,910 ) Funds From Operations attributable to common stockholders(3) 280,723 19,400 300,123 Capital Replacements(4) (80,484 ) (6,196 ) (86,680 ) Capital Enhancements(4) (2,570 ) (39 ) (2,609 ) Impairment loss on investment in unconsolidated real estate partnerships 4,122  4,122 Impairment loss on real estate assets sold or held for sale, net of minority partners' interest 8,991  8,991 Redemption related preferred stock issuance costs 7,645  7,645 Minority interest in Aimco Operating Partnership's share of above adjustment 7,741  7,741 Adjusted Funds From Operations (AFFO) attributable to common stockholders(3) $ 226,168 $ 13,165 $ 239,333 Earnings Shares Earnings Per Share Net income attributable to common stockholders Basic $ 65,292 92,850 $ 0.70 Diluted $ 65,292 92,968 $ 0.70 FFO attributable to common stockholders Basic 300,123 92,850 Diluted 312,440 96,607 AFFO attributable to common stockholders Basic 239,333 92,850 Diluted 248,493 95,817 F-44 FREE CASH FLOW FROM BUSINESS SEGMENTS For the Years Ended December31, 2003, 2002 and 2001 (in thousands, except per share data) 2002 2001 Consolidated Unconsolidated Total Consolidated Unconsolidated Total $ 691,092 $ 62,484 $ 753,576 $ 656,730 $ 81,719 $ 738,449 (284,266 ) (39,397 ) (323,663 ) (241,511 ) (45,851 ) (287,362 ) (20,541 ) (2,020 ) (22,561 ) (24,219 ) (4,458 ) (28,677 ) (12,683 )  (12,683 ) (8,604 ) (62 ) (8,666 ) (22,626 )  (22,626 ) (20,366 ) (2 ) (20,368 )       (1,161 )  (1,161 ) (1,568 )  (1,568 ) 16,806 1,185 17,991 16,176 591 16,767 (324,471 ) (40,232 ) (364,703 ) (280,092 ) (49,782 ) (329,874 ) 36,700  36,700 41,026  41,026 (287,771 ) (40,232 ) (328,003 ) (239,066 ) (49,782 ) (288,848 ) (10,874 )  (10,874 ) (9,803 )  (9,803 ) (98 )  (98 ) (2,712 )  (2,712 ) (93,558 )  (93,558 ) (90,331 )  (90,331 ) (104,530 )  (104,530 ) (102,846 )  (102,846 ) 78,863 11,991 90,854 50,180 8,907 59,087 (4,026 )  (4,026 ) (18,729 )  (18,729 ) (22,362 )  (22,362 ) 17,394  17,394 (5,540 )  (5,540 )    9,095  9,095 12,237  12,237 (241,325 ) (33,549 ) (274,874 ) (295,113 ) (57,506 ) (352,619 ) (26,979 )  (26,979 ) (46,359 )  (46,359 ) (11,723 )  (11,723 ) (745 )  (745 ) 74,794 694 75,488 33,683 (16,662 ) 17,021 22,362  22,362 (17,394 )  (17,394 ) 6,021  6,021    29,580  29,580 37,936  37,936 1,321  1,321 1,342  1,342 2,507  2,507       3,843  3,843 241,325 33,549 274,874 295,113 57,506 352,619 26,979  26,979 46,359  46,359 4,026  4,026 18,729  18,729    3,202  3,202 (44,500 )  (44,500 ) (58,883 )  (58,883 ) 364,415 34,243 398,658 363,930 40,844 404,774 (71,714 ) (11,168 ) (82,882 ) (50,180 ) (8,907 ) (59,087 ) (7,149 ) (823 ) (7,972 )    5,540  5,540    2,937  2,937          9,885  9,885 6,724  6,724 $ 303,914 $ 22,252 $ 326,166 $ 320,474 $ 31,937 $ 352,411 Earnings Shares Earnings Per Share Earnings Shares Earnings Per Share $ 75,488 85,698 $ 0.88 $ 17,021 72,458 $ 0.23 $ 75,488 86,773 $ 0.87 $ 17,021 73,648 $ 0.23 398,658 85,698 404,774 72,458 437,910 96,361 470,731 90,438 326,166 85,698 352,411 72,458 357,199 94,609 418,368 90,438 F-45 (1) Reconciliation of total consolidated real estate contribution to Free Cash Flow to consolidated rental and other property revenues (in thousands): 2003 2002 2001 Consolidated real estate contribution to Free Cash Flow $ 650,672 $ 621,912 $ 562,118 Plus: Minority partners' interest 69,373 76,214 82,627 Plus: Capital Replacements 80,484 71,714 50,180 Plus: Capital Enhancements 2,570 7,149  Plus: Property operating expenses 642,697 515,363 428,400 Rental and other property revenues $ 1,445,796 $ 1,292,352 $ 1,123,325 (2) Reconciliation of total investment management business contribution to Free Cash Flow to consolidated management fees and other income primarily from affiliates (in thousands): 2003 2002 2001 Consolidated investment management business contribution to Free Cash Flow $ 19,913 $ 31,448 $ 52,273 Plus: Management and other expenses 50,574 64,031 97,439 Management fees and other income primarily from affiliates $ 70,487 $ 95,479 $ 149,712 (3) In addition to reviewing financial measures determined in accordance with GAAP, our chief operating decision maker assesses the performance of the business by using several generally accepted industry financial measuresfree cash flow, funds from operations and adjusted funds from operationswhich measures are defined below. Although these measures provide useful information regarding our financial condition and results of operations, such measures should not be considered alternatives to net income or net cash flow from operating activities, as determined in accordance with GAAP.
"Free Cash Flow" or "FCF" is defined by us as net operating income less the Capital Replacement spending required to maintain, and the Capital Enhancement spending made to improve, the related assets. It also includes cash flows generated from the Investment Management Business, interest and other income, general and administrative expenses, and provision for losses on accounts, fees, and notes receivable incurred by us. FCF measures profitability prior to the cost of capital. Because we have substantial unconsolidated real estate interests, FCF is useful for management and investors to understand, in addition to consolidated cash flows, cash flows from our unconsolidated real estate holdings.
"Funds From Operations" or "FFO" is a commonly used measure of REIT performance and is defined by the Board of Governors of NAREIT as net income (loss), computed in accordance with GAAP, excluding gains and losses from extraordinary items, gains on dispositions of depreciable real estate property, gains on dispositions of real estate from discontinued operations, net of related income taxes, plus real estate related depreciation and amortization (excluding amortization of financing costs), including depreciation for unconsolidated real estate partnerships, joint ventures and discontinued operations. We calculate FFO based on the NAREIT definition, as further adjusted for amortization of intangibles and deficit distributions to minority partners. We calculate FFO (diluted) by subtracting redemption related preferred stock issuance costs and dividends on preferred stock, adding back dividends/distributions on dilutive preferred securities and adding back the interest expense on dilutive mandatorily redeemable convertible preferred securities. FFO captures features particular to real estate performance by recognizing that real estate generally appreciates over time or maintains residual value to a much greater extent than do other depreciating assets such as machinery, computers or other personal property. Our basis for computing FFO may not be comparable with that of other real estate investment trusts.
"Adjusted Funds From Operations" or "AFFO" is defined by us as FFO less Capital Replacement spending and, for second quarter 2002 and subsequent periods, Capital Enhancement spending, plus non-cash charges for redemption related preferred stock issuance costs and impairment losses. Similar to FFO, AFFO captures real estate performance by recognizing that real estate generally appreciates over time or maintains residual value to a much greater extent than do other depreciating assets such as machinery, computers or other personal property, and AFFO also reflects that Capital Replacements are necessary to maintain, and Capital Enhancements are made to improve, the associated real estate assets.
F-46 Capital Replacement spending was equal to $563, $478, and $367 per unit for the years ended December31, 2003, 2002, and 2001, respectively. Capital Enhancement spending was equal to $17 and $46 per unit for the years ended December31, 2003 and 2002, respectively. In 2001 Capital Enhancement spending was not deducted to arrive at AFFO. In 2003, we began to account for a category of capital expenditures known as Disposition Capital Expenditures, which reports those capital expenditures made on conventional and affordable properties sold, held for sale, or identified as to-be-sold within one year and those capital expenditures made on certain affordable properties that are subject to regulatory restrictions on distributions and that are expected to be sold upon completion of regulatory requirements.
(4) Beginning in second quarter 2002, we began deducting Capital Enhancement spending in determining AFFO. Beginning in second quarter 2003, we began excluding Disposition Capital Expenditures (see (3)above for further information) from Capital Replacements. The deduction of Capital Enhancements and the exclusion of Disposition Capital Expenditures are reflected on a prospective basis.
ASSETS (in thousands): December 31, 2003 December 31, 2002 December 31, 2001 Total assets for reportable segments(1) $ 9,724,667 $ 10,020,551 $ 7,926,764 Corporate and other assets 388,695 296,050 373,908 Total consolidated assets $ 10,113,362 $ 10,316,601 $ 8,300,672 (1) Total assets for reportable segments include assets associated with both the real estate and investment management business segments.
NOTE 19Transactions with Affiliates We earn revenue from unconsolidated real estate partnerships in which we are the general partner and have a 21% average ownership interest and earn fees from consolidated real estate partnerships. These revenues include property management services, partnership and asset management services and transactional services such as syndication and acquisition, development, refinancing, construction supervisory and disposition. Also, we are reimbursed for our costs in connection with the management of the unconsolidated real estate partnerships. Fees earned for these services for the years ended December31, 2003, 2002 and 2001 were $59.0million, $87.2million and $128.8million, respectively. The total accounts receivable due from affiliates was $56.9million, net of allowance for doubtful accounts of $3.5million, at December31, 2003, and $47.1million, net of allowance for doubtful accounts of $4.1million, at December31, 2002.
Additionally, we earn interest income on notes from unconsolidated and consolidated real estate partnerships, in which we are the general partner and hold either par value or discounted notes. Interest income earned on par value notes from unconsolidated real estate partnerships totaled $14.3million, $26.6million, and $26.0million for the years ended December31, 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. Accretion income earned on discounted notes from unconsolidated real estate partnerships totaled $2.7million, $36.8million, and $9.9million for the years ended December31, 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. See Note5 for additional information on notes receivable from unconsolidated real estate partnerships.
In the consolidated balance sheets, we eliminate the accounts receivable and notes receivable from affiliates due from consolidated real estate partnerships. We eliminate in the consolidated statements of income the income from services and interest income earned on notes from consolidated real estate partnerships. We eliminate in the consolidated statements of income to the extent of our ownership any intercompany profits on income earned from unconsolidated real estate partnerships.
F-47 NOTE 20Employee Benefit Plans We provide a 401(k) defined-contribution employee savings plan. Employees who have completed six months of service are eligible to participate. We matched 50% to 100% of the participant's contributions to the plan up to a maximum of 6% of the participant's prior year compensation. Our match percentage is based on employee tenure. Our expense incurred totaled approximately $2.4million, $2.6million and $2.8million in 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively.
NOTE 21Recent Accounting Developments FASB Interpretation No.46 In January2003, the FASB issued Interpretation No.46 Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, or FIN 46. In general, a variable interest entity, or a VIE, is a corporation, partnership, trust, or any other legal structure used for business purposes that either (a)has equity investors that lack essential characteristics of a controlling financial interest or (b)has equity investors that do not provide sufficient financial resources for the entity to support its activities. A VIE often holds financial and non-financial assets, including loans or receivables, real estate or other property. Prior to the issuance of FIN 46, a company generally included an entity in its consolidated financial statements only if it controlled the entity through voting interests. FIN 46 changes the previous consolidation standards by requiring VIEs to be consolidated by a company if that company is subject to a majority of the risk of loss from the VIE's activities, entitled to receive a majority of the entity's residual returns, or both. An entity is a VIE if any of the following conditions exist: (a)the total equity investment at risk is not sufficient to permit the entity to finance its activities without additional subordinated financial support from other parties; (b)as a group the holders of the equity investment at risk lack (i)the ability to make decisions about an entity's activities through voting or similar rights, (ii)the obligation to absorb the expected losses of the entity if they occur, or (iii)the right to receive the expected residual returns of the entity if they occur; or (c)the voting rights of some investors are not proportional to their obligations to absorb the expected losses of the entity, to receive the expected residual returns of the entity, or both, and substantially all of the entity's activities either involve, or are conducted on behalf of, an investor that has disproportionately few voting rights.
FIN 46's consolidation requirements apply immediately to VIEs created or acquired after January31, 2003. We adopted FIN 46 for entities created or acquired after January31, 2003. The FASB issued several staff positions during 2003 and in December2003 the FASB revised its interpretation to clarify certain items by issuing a revised version of FIN 46. The effective date of FIN 46 is now March31, 2004. As a result of the significant revisions included in the FASB's revised December2003 interpretation, we are currently in the process of quantifying the impact of FIN 46 on our financial statements.
Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No.149 In April2003, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No.149, Amendment of Statement 133 on Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities , or SFAS149. SFAS149 amends and clarifies financial accounting and reporting for derivative instruments, including certain derivative instruments embedded in other contracts and for hedging activities under Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No.133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities , or SFAS133. SFAS149 clarifies the definition of a derivative and when special reporting is warranted, in addition to amending certain other existing pronouncements. SFAS149 will result in more consistent reporting of contracts that are derivatives in their entirety or that contain embedded derivatives that warrant separate accounting. SFAS149 is effective for contracts entered into or modified after June30, 2003, except for provisions that relate to SFAS133 Implementation Issues, which should continue to be applied in accordance with their respective effective dates, and for hedging relationships designated F-48 after June30, 2003. In addition, certain provisions relating to forward purchases or sales of when-issued securities or other securities that do not yet exist, should be applied to existing contracts as well as new contracts entered into after June30, 2003. The adoption of SFAS149 did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations taken as a whole.
Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No.150 In May2003, the FASB issued SFAS150, which establishes standards for how an issuer classifies and measures certain financial instruments with characteristics of both liabilities and equity. The requirements of SFAS150 apply to the classification and measurement of freestanding financial instruments, including those that comprise more than one option or forward contract. SFAS150 requires that certain financial instruments, such as mandatorily redeemable securities, put options, forward purchase contracts, and obligations that can be settled with shares, be classified as liabilities, where in some cases these have previously been classified as equity or between the liabilities and equity section of the consolidated balance sheet. SFAS150 is effective for financial instruments entered into or modified after May31, 2003, and otherwise is effective at the beginning of the first interim period beginning after June15, 2003. We adopted SFAS150 as of July1, 2003 (see Note7). In September2003, financial statement issuers first became aware that the FASB intended for SFAS150 to also apply to the non-controlling interests in consolidated finite life partnerships. However, on October29, 2003, the FASB indefinitely deferred the provisions of SFAS150 that were intended to apply to non-controlling interests in consolidated finite life partnerships. Because during the deferral period the FASB plans to reconsider implementation issues and, perhaps, classification or measurement guidance for non-controlling interests in consolidated finite life partnerships, we are not able to quantify the full impact to our financial statements of consolidating non-controlling interests in finite life partnerships. The adoption of SFAS150 for portions that have not been deferred did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial position or results of operations taken as a whole.
Emerging Issues Task Force Topic D-42 On July31, 2003, the SEC clarified Emerging Issues Task Force, Topic No.D-42, The Effect on the Calculation of Earnings Per Share for the Redemption or Induced Conversion of Preferred Stock, or Topic D-42, which provides that any excess of (a)the fair value of the consideration transferred to the holders of preferred stock redeemed over (b)the carrying amount of the preferred stock should be subtracted from net earnings to determine net earnings available to common stockholders in the calculation of earnings per share. The SEC interpreted Topic D-42 to require that the issuance costs of the preferred securities reduce the carrying amount of the preferred securities, regardless of where in the stockholders' equity section those costs were initially classified on issuance. We recorded issuance costs as a reduction to Additional Paid-in Capital on the Consolidated Balance Sheet at the time the related securities were issued and did not consider them as a reduction to the carrying value of the preferred stock at the time of redemption. Under the clarification, these issuance costs must be treated like a preferred dividend and deducted from net income to arrive at net income attributable to common stockholders. The July2003 clarification of Topic D-42 was effective for us for the quarter ending September30, 2003 and requires the restatement of prior periods when they are presented in future filings. In the second and third quarters of 2003, we redeemed various classes of preferred stock, which redemption related preferred stock issuance costs were deducted in accordance with Topic D-42 (see Note13 for impact on earnings per basic and diluted common share).
F-49 NOTE 22Subsequent Events Dividend Declared On January29, 2004, the Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.60 per common share for the quarter ended December31, 2003, paid on February27, 2004, to stockholders of record on February20, 2004.
Assets Held for Sale Subsequent to December31, 2003, we classified as assets held for sale an additional five properties with 1,063 units. We expect these properties to sell within one year. At December31, 2003, these assets had a net book value of $30.7million with related debt of $23.6million. The estimated proceeds less anticipated costs to sell these assets, are not expected to be less than the net book value, and therefore no impairment losses are expected.
Acquisition of The Palazzo at Park La Brea On January30, 2004, we closed on the purchase of The Palazzo at Park La Brea, a mid-rise apartment community with 521 units, for approximately $162.9million, which included $0.5million in transaction costs. The Palazzo at Park La Brea is the second of three phases to be completed as part of the Park La Brea development. We paid approximately $69.7million in cash and were required to repay existing mortgage indebtedness of approximately $92.7million. The repayment of existing mortgage indebtedness was primarily funded through a non-recourse, long-term, variable rate, partially amortizing property note of $88.0million, with an interest rate of 1.50% over 30-day LIBOR.
Partial Redemption of ClassS Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock On January30, 2004, we redeemed 1,015,228 shares of our ClassS Preferred Stock at a redemption price of $24.625 per share. On February2, 2004, we paid all accumulated, accrued and unpaid dividends. Following this redemption, 2,984,772 shares of the ClassS Preferred Stock were outstanding.
Repurchases of Common Stock On February24, 2004, we completed the purchase of 287,272 shares of Common Stock from the representatives of the Plaintiffs in the REAL Litigation. We paid in cash an aggregate of approximately $9.1million to the representatives of the Plaintiffs for the shares, or $31.60 per share. The Plaintiffs received these shares from Alan I. Casden on December30, 2003 pursuant to the previously disclosed Stipulation of Settlement with the Plaintiffs and their counsel relating to the REAL Litigation and the previously disclosed Settlement Agreement with the prior shareholders of Casden Properties,Inc., NAPICO and Aimco (see Note9).
In addition to this privately negotiated purchase, on February18, 19 and 24, 2004, we purchased on the open market 30,000, 60,000 and 20,000 shares of Common Stock, respectively, at an average price per share of approximately $32.03, $32.17 and $31.26, respectively.
F-50 APARTMENT INVESTMENT AND MANAGEMENT COMPANY REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION December31, 2003 (In Thousands Except Unit Data) (2) Initial Cost December31, 2003 (3) CostCapitalized Subsequentto Acquisition PropertyName PropertyType (1) DateConsolidated Location YearBuilt Number ofUnits Land Buildingsand Improvements Land Buildingsand Improvements Total Accumulated Depreciation TotalCostNetof AccumulatedDepreciation Encumbrances 100 Forest Place High Rise Dec-97 Oak Park, IL 1987 237 $ 2,663 $ 18,805 $ 1,579 $ 2,663 $ 20,384 $ 23,047 $ (4,510 ) $ 18,537 $ 14,132 311& 313 East 73rd Street Mid-Rise Mar-03 New York, NY 1904 34 4,675 3,125  4,675 3,125 7,800 (74 ) 7,726  6111 At Ridgeway Crossing Garden Dec-97 Memphis, TN 1984 584 1,746 10,477 4,477 1,746 14,954 16,700 (5,172 ) 11,528 8,645 Abington I Garden Jul-02 Indianapolis, IN 1979 108 730 2,120 470 730 2,590 3,320 (410 ) 2,910 2,116 Abington II Garden Oct-02 Indianapolis, IN 1980 220 1,373 4,912 370 1,373 5,282 6,655 (925 ) 5,730 4,560 Alliance Towers High Rise Mar-02 Lombard, IL 1971 101 530 1,932 405 530 2,337 2,867 (169 ) 2,698 2,345 Anchorage Apartments Garden Nov-96 League City, TX 1985 264 1,155 7,163 1,912 1,155 9,075 10,230 (1,902 ) 8,328 4,126 Anthracite High Rise Mar-02 Pittston, PA 1981 121 670 2,521 53 670 2,574 3,244 (231 ) 3,013 3,097 Apartment,The Garden Jul-00 Omaha, NE 1973 204 950 8,790 374 950 9,164 10,114 (4,559 ) 5,555 4,367 Apple Creek (TX) Garden Jan-00 Temple, TX 1984 176 479 3,748 330 479 4,078 4,557 (1,042 ) 3,515 1,531 Arbors Garden May-98 Deland, FL 1987 224 1,507 9,274 656 1,507 9,930 11,437 (2,654 ) 8,783 7,605 Arbors (Grovetree), The Garden Oct-97 Tempe, AZ 1967 200 1,092 6,201 959 1,092 7,160 8,252 (1,919 ) 6,333 3,236 ArboursOf Hermitage,The Garden Jul-00 Hermitage, TN 1972 350 1,741 14,947 1,931 1,741 16,878 18,619 (7,385 ) 11,234 5,650 Armitage Commons Mid Rise Mar-02 Chicago, IL 1983 104 1,070 4,285 515 1,070 4,800 5,870 (289 ) 5,581 4,924 Arrowsmith Garden Mar-02 Corpus Christi, TX 1980 70 240 968 61 240 1,029 1,269 (110 ) 1,159 1,099 Ashford, The Garden Dec-95 Atlanta, GA 1968 221 2,771 8,366 22,712 2,771 31,078 33,849 (3,815 ) 30,034 6,186 Ashland Manor High Rise Mar-02 East Moline, IL 1977 189 210 881 108 210 989 1,199 (177 ) 1,022 1,554 Aspen Point Garden Dec-97 Arvada, CO 1972 120 353 3,815 3,230 353 7,045 7,398 (1,897 ) 5,501  Aspen Station Garden Oct-01 Richmond, VA 1979 232 2,509 7,859 374 2,509 8,233 10,742 (2,187 ) 8,555 7,085 Aspen Stratford B High Rise Oct-02 Newark, NJ 1920 60 304 1,723 192 304 1,915 2,219 (500 ) 1,719 1,804 Aspen Stratford C High Rise Oct-02 Newark, NJ 1920 56 338 1,916 220 338 2,136 2,474 (496 ) 1,978 1,594 Atriums of Plantation Mid Rise Aug-98 Plantation, FL 1980 210 1,807 10,365 776 1,807 11,141 12,948 (2,539 ) 10,409 7,357 Autumn Run (IL) Garden Oct-02 Naperville, IL 1984 320 1,857 17,481 245 1,857 17,726 19,583 (6,454 ) 13,129 12,402 Autumn Woods Garden Sep-00 Jackson, MI 1973 112 1,078 3,699 938 1,078 4,637 5,715 (853 ) 4,862 2,891 Baisley Park Gardens Mid Rise Apr-02 Jamaica, NY 1982 212 1,648 12,534 803 1,648 13,337 14,985 (1,913 ) 13,072 11,903 Baldwin Oaks Mid Rise Oct-99 Parsippany, NJ 1980 251 644 7,870 723 644 8,593 9,237 (3,442 ) 5,795 7,150 Bangor House High Rise Mar-02 Bangor, ME 1979 121 1,140 4,592 176 1,140 4,768 5,908 (120 ) 5,788 3,299 Bank Lofts High Rise Apr-01 Denver, CO 1920 117 3,524 9,115 280 3,524 9,395 12,919 (1,193 ) 11,726 7,741 Bannock Arms Garden Mar-02 Boise, ID 1978 66 275 1,100 34 275 1,134 1,409 (133 ) 1,276 1,621 Barcelona Garden Oct-99 Houston, TX 1963 127 892 4,784 848 892 5,632 6,524 (1,776 ) 4,748 7,483 Baughman Towers High Rise Mar-02 Philippi, WV 1981 104 670 2,680 48 670 2,728 3,398 (183 ) 3,215 3,268 Bay Club Tower I High Rise Apr-97 Aventura, FL 1990 702 10,487 61,522 6,144 10,487 67,666 78,153 (16,446 ) 61,707 57,615 Bay Ridge at Nashua Garden Jan-03 Nashua, NH 1984 412 3,381 40,093 80 3,381 40,173 43,554 (6,857 ) 36,697 24,484 Bayberry Hill Estates Garden Aug-02 Framingham, MA 1971 425 18,915 35,999 621 18,915 36,620 55,535 (1,743 ) 53,792 31,824 Bayhead Village Garden Oct-00 Indianapolis, IN 1978 202 1,462 5,134 912 1,462 6,046 7,508 (963 ) 6,545 3,596 Baymeadows Garden Oct-99 Jacksonville, FL 1972 904 4,571 35,328 7,556 4,571 42,884 47,455 (13,282 ) 34,173 25,139 Beacon Hill High Rise Mar-02 Hillsdale, MI 1980 198 1,380 5,520 669 1,380 6,189 7,569 (518 ) 7,051 5,892 Beau Jardin Garden Apr-01 West Lafayette, IN 1968 252 5,460 5,278 1,350 5,460 6,628 12,088 (1,338 ) 10,750 4,688 Bedford House Mid Rise Mar-02 Falmouth, KY 1979 48 230 917 78 230 995 1,225 (74 ) 1,151 1,108 Beech Lake Garden May-99 Durham, NC 1986 345 2,222 12,625 1,198 2,222 13,823 16,045 (3,267 ) 12,778 10,845 Beech's Farm Garden Oct-00 Columbia, MD 1983 135 3,905 3,434 888 3,905 4,322 8,227 (685 ) 7,542 3,860 Bent Oaks Garden May-98 Austin, TX 1978 146 1,096 6,428 454 1,096 6,882 7,978 (1,873 ) 6,105 3,825 Bent Tree (NC) Garden Sep-00 Greensboro, NC 1986 244 2,030 7,642 904 2,030 8,546 10,576 (1,065 ) 9,511 4,696 Bent Tree I Garden Oct-02 Indianapolis, IN 1983 240 1,582 7,313 204 1,582 7,517 9,099 (1,178 ) 7,921 4,250 Bent Tree IIIVerandas Garden Sep-00 Indianapolis, IN 1985 96 1,795 3,375 366 1,795 3,741 5,536 (404 ) 5,132 4,084 Berger Apartments Mid Rise Mar-02 New Haven, CT 1981 145 1,152 4,611 475 1,152 5,086 6,238 (457 ) 5,781 3,180 Berkeley Gardens High Rise Mar-02 Martinsburg, WV 1981 132 264 1,056 53 264 1,109 1,373 (143 ) 1,230 1,101 Big Walnut Garden Apr-02 Columbus, OH 1968 251 546 9,795 289 546 10,084 10,630 (3,896 ) 6,734 5,594 BiltmoreTowers High Rise Mar-02 Dayton, OH 1980 230 1,822 7,881 5 1,822 7,886 9,708 (505 ) 9,203 10,950 Bluffs(IN),The Garden Dec-98 Lafayette, IN 1982 181 979 5,547 1,128 979 6,675 7,654 (1,808 ) 5,846 3,393 Boston Lofts High Rise Apr-01 Denver, CO 1890 158 3,446 20,667 391 3,446 21,058 24,504 (2,566 ) 21,938 15,521 Boulder Creek Garden Jul-94 Boulder, CO 1972 221 755 7,724 15,715 755 23,439 24,194 (7,289 ) 16,905 15,370 Boulevard Tower High Rise Mar-02 Bronx, NY 1967 332 1,992 7,958 2,255 1,992 10,213 12,205 (713 ) 11,492 4,655 Braesview Garden May-98 San Antonio, TX 1982 396 3,135 17,799 1,822 3,135 19,621 22,756 (5,317 ) 17,439 12,190 Brandywine Garden Jul-94 St. Petersburg, FL 1971 477 1,437 12,728 2,267 1,437 14,995 16,432 (8,678 ) 7,754 9,336 Brant Rock Condominiums Garden Oct-97 Houston, TX 1984 84 337 1,964 624 337 2,588 2,925 (738 ) 2,187 1,026 Breakers, The Garden Oct-98 Daytona Beach, FL 1985 208 1,008 5,708 1,382 1,008 7,090 8,098 (1,708 ) 6,390 3,618 Brentwood Apartments Garden Nov-96 Lake Jackson, TX 1980 104 592 2,741 656 592 3,397 3,989 (1,007 ) 2,982 1,464 Briar Bay Racquet Club Mid Rise Jul-00 Miami, FL 1974 194 1,481 9,773 356 1,481 10,129 11,610 (4,211 ) 7,399 3,500 Briarcliffe Garden Oct-00 Lansing, MI 1974 308 3,250 9,874 1,129 3,250 11,003 14,253 (1,725 ) 12,528 6,422 Briarwest Garden Oct-99 Houston, TX 1970 380 2,853 15,271 1,309 2,853 16,580 19,433 (4,979 ) 14,454 7,483 Briarwood Garden Oct-99 Houston, TX 1970 351 2,471 12,914 1,534 2,471 14,448 16,919 (4,559 ) 12,360 7,483 Bridgewater Apartments,The Garden Nov-96 Tomball, TX 1978 206 969 5,895 1,503 969 7,398 8,367 (1,208 ) 7,159 3,564 Brighton Crest Garden Jan-00 Marietta, GA 1987 320 2,077 13,163 1,233 2,077 14,396 16,473 (5,443 ) 11,030 10,171 Brinton Manor Garden Sep-03 Pittsburgh,PA 1971 219 333 6,202 1,177 333 7,379 7,712 (2,596 ) 5,116 1,741 Brinton Towers High Rise Sep-03 Pittsburgh,PA 1973 190 280 4,204 753 280 4,957 5,237 (2,576 ) 2,661 2,722 Broadcast Center Garden Mar-02 Los Angeles, CA 1990 280 27,403 41,246 1,128 27,403 42,374 69,777 (2,162 ) 67,615 34,000 Broadmoor Ridge Garden Dec-97 Colorado Springs, CO 1974 200 460 2,914 9,887 460 12,801 13,261 (1,430 ) 11,831 8,281 Broadmoor, The Garden May-98 Austin, TX 1984 200 1,370 8,658 703 1,370 9,361 10,731 (2,412 ) 8,319 6,000 Brook Run Garden May-98 Arlington Heights, IL 1985 182 2,245 12,841 1,008 2,245 13,849 16,094 (3,803 ) 12,291 11,800 Brookdale Lakes Garden May-98 Naperville, IL 1990 200 2,709 15,353 774 2,709 16,127 18,836 (4,381 ) 14,455 12,020 Brookview Garden Dec-97 Montgomery, AL 1975 64 75 1,017 287 75 1,304 1,379 (331 ) 1,048 452 F-51 (2) Initial Cost December31, 2003 (3) CostCapitalized Subsequentto Acquisition PropertyName PropertyType (1) DateConsolidated Location YearBuilt Number ofUnits Land Buildingsand Improvements Land Buildingsand Improvements Total Accumulated Depreciation TotalCostNetof AccumulatedDepreciation Encumbrances Brookwood Apartments (IN) Garden Apr-01 Indianapolis, IN 1967 404 4,545 9,141 1,996 4,545 11,137 15,682 (1,757 ) 13,925 9,555 Buckingham Garden Mar-02 Los Angeles, CA 1983 83 710 2,840 72 710 2,912 3,622 (236 ) 3,386 3,368 Burgundy Court Garden Apr-00 Cincinnati, OH 1969 234 1,844 9,588 833 1,844 10,421 12,265 (2,088 ) 10,177 6,101 Burke Shire Commons Garden Mar-01 Burke, VA 1986 360 4,689 22,552 1,237 4,689 23,789 28,478 (4,135 ) 24,343 21,570 Calhoun Beach Club High Rise Dec-98 Minneapolis, MN 1928/1998 332 11,708 71,571 40,767 11,708 112,338 124,046 (13,455 ) 110,591 46,797 Cameron Hill I Garden Oct-00 Chattanooga, TN 1976 254 1,707 6,058 685 1,707 6,743 8,450 (968 ) 7,482 4,901 Cameron Hill II Garden Oct-00 Chattanooga, TN 1978 108 707 2,329 579 707 2,908 3,615 (409 ) 3,206 2,046 Campbell Heights High Rise Oct-02 Washington, D.C.
1978 170 510 8,854 98 510 8,952 9,462 (3,177 ) 6,285 8,609 Canoga Park Garden Mar-02 North Hollywood, CA 1983 14 161 639 13 161 652 813 (47 ) 766 695 Canterbury Green Apartments Garden Dec-99 Fort Wayne, IN 1979 1,988 13,659 72,922 9,905 13,659 82,827 96,486 (13,092 ) 83,394 47,781 Canyon Crest Garden Jan-03 Littleton, CO 1966 90 1,335 6,075 135 1,335 6,210 7,545 (1,129 ) 6,416 3,372 Canyon Terrace Garden Mar-02 Saugus, CA 1984 130 7,300 6,599 775 7,300 7,374 14,674 (491 ) 14,183 5,911 Cape Cod Garden May-98 San Antonio, TX 1985 212 1,307 7,006 557 1,307 7,563 8,870 (1,812 ) 7,058 4,430 Captiva Club Garden Dec-96 Tampa, FL 1973 357 1,600 6,965 9,929 1,600 16,894 18,494 (4,195 ) 14,299 8,065 Carriage Hill Garden Jul-00 East Lansing, MI 1972 143 772 8,999 902 772 9,901 10,673 (3,166 ) 7,507 5,030 Carriage House Garden Oct-99 Gastonia, NC 1971 102 406 3,433 453 406 3,886 4,292 (1,483 ) 2,809 1,856 Casa de Las Hermanitas Garden Mar-02 Los Angeles, CA 1982 88 1,815 4,140 21 1,815 4,161 5,976 (308 ) 5,668 2,360 Castle Park Mid Rise Mar-02 St. Louis, MO 1983 209 1,700 6,802 224 1,700 7,026 8,726 (653 ) 8,073 9,078 Castlewood Garden Mar-02 Davenport, IA 1980 96 585 2,340 83 585 2,423 3,008 (162 ) 2,846 2,664 Cedar Brooke Apartments Garden Apr-00 Independence, MO 1971 158 991 4,601 492 991 5,093 6,084 (2,896 ) 3,188 3,652 Cedar Rim Garden Apr-00 New Castle, WA 1980 104 777 5,516 609 777 6,125 6,902 (2,209 ) 4,693 4,724 Centennial Garden Mar-02 Fort Wayne, IN 1983 88 550 2,200 160 550 2,360 2,910 (186 ) 2,724 2,464 Center City Mid Rise Mar-02 Hazelton, PA 1981 176 925 3,728 345 925 4,073 4,998 (354 ) 4,644 4,002 Center Square High Rise Oct-99 Doylestown, PA 1975 350 581 4,173 1,797 581 5,970 6,551 (1,165 ) 5,386 9,674 Chambers Ridge Garden Oct-99 Harrisburg, PA 1973 324 1,107 9,498 3,786 1,107 13,284 14,391 (5,549 ) 8,842 8,283 Charleston Landing Garden Sep-00 Brandon, FL 1985 300 8,369 9,117 1,179 8,369 10,296 18,665 (2,345 ) 16,320 10,750 Chatham Harbor Garden Oct-99 Altamonte Springs, FL 1985 324 2,288 13,055 899 2,288 13,954 16,242 (2,098 ) 14,144 8,935 Chelsea Place Garden Oct-00 Murfreesboro, TN 1966 594 2,577 13,593 1,975 2,577 15,568 18,145 (4,801 ) 13,344 11,220 Chelsea Ridge Apartments Garden Apr-01 Wappingers Falls, NY 1966 835 10,403 32,984 3,172 10,403 36,156 46,559 (7,209 ) 39,350 35,240 Cherry Creek Gardens Garden Jan-00 Englewood, CO 1975 296 1,905 18,417 1,877 1,905 20,294 22,199 (7,154 ) 15,045 11,255 Cherry Ridge Terrace Garden Mar-02 Northern Cambria, PA 1983 62 372 1,538 56 372 1,594 1,966 (173 ) 1,793 1,524 Chesapeake Apartments Garden Jan-96 Houston, TX 1983 320 776 7,294 1,640 776 8,934 9,710 (2,354 ) 7,356 6,344 Chesapeake Landing I Garden Sep-00 Aurora, IL 1986 416 16,202 16,849 1,167 16,202 18,016 34,218 (2,854 ) 31,364 24,949 Chesapeake Landing II Garden Mar-01 Aurora, IL 1987 184 2,041 7,973 631 2,041 8,604 10,645 (1,268 ) 9,377 6,728 Chestnut Hill (PA) Garden Apr-00 Philadelphia, PA 1963 821 6,457 49,463 3,700 6,457 53,163 59,620 (13,240 ) 46,380 24,656 Chestnut Hill (CT) Garden Oct-99 Middletown, CT 1986 314 2,997 20,108 818 2,997 20,926 23,923 (4,274 ) 19,649 16,070 Chidester Place High Rise Mar-02 Ypsilanti, MI 1979 151 960 3,809 267 960 4,076 5,036 (271 ) 4,765 2,265 Chimney Hill Garden Jul-00 Marietta, GA 1972 326 1,904 14,150 3,430 1,904 17,580 19,484 (6,540 ) 12,944 5,400 Chimney Top Garden Oct-02 Antioch, TN 1985 362 2,559 10,924 260 2,559 11,184 13,743 (1,085 ) 12,658 8,568 Chimneys of Oak Creek I Garden Oct-02 Kettering, OH 1981 200 1,519 5,680 135 1,519 5,815 7,334 (466 ) 6,868 6,062 Citadel Garden Jul-00 El Paso, TX 1973 261 1,037 8,598 307 1,037 8,905 9,942 (4,212 ) 5,730 4,303 Citadel Village Garden Jul-00 Colorado Springs, CO 1974 122 909 6,775 413 909 7,188 8,097 (2,704 ) 5,393 2,450 Citrus Grove Garden Jun-98 Redlands, CA 1985 198 1,118 6,622 1,079 1,118 7,701 8,819 (1,719 ) 7,100 4,493 Citrus Sunset Garden Jul-98 Vista, CA 1985 97 663 3,982 638 663 4,620 5,283 (1,030 ) 4,253  City Heights High Rise Mar-02 Wilkes-Barre, PA 1978 151 755 3,040 91 755 3,131 3,886 (231 ) 3,655 3,373 City Line Garden Mar-02 Hampton, VA 1976 200 500 2,008 159 500 2,167 2,667 (91 ) 2,576 2,435 Coatesville Towers High Rise Mar-02 Coatesville, PA 1979 90 500 2,007 206 500 2,213 2,713 (182 ) 2,531 2,305 College Park Garden Dec-97 Carlisle, PA 1972 208 77 16 1,172 77 1,188 1,265 (1,003 ) 262 4,443 Colonial Crest Garden Dec-99 Bloomington, IN 1965 208 903 4,582 2,038 903 6,620 7,523 (1,289 ) 6,234 1,528 Colonnade Gardens (Ferntree) Garden Oct-97 Phoenix, AZ 1973 196 766 4,339 844 766 5,183 5,949 (1,371 ) 4,578 2,397 ColonyatEl Conquistador,The Garden Jun-98 Bradenton, FL 1986 166 1,121 6,350 634 1,121 6,984 8,105 (1,575 ) 6,530 3,005 Colony at Kenilworth Garden Oct-99 Towson, MD 1966 383 2,318 19,765 3,173 2,318 22,938 25,256 (9,747 ) 15,509 13,583 Colony House Garden Oct-99 Murfreesboro, TN 1973 194 571 5,851 917 571 6,768 7,339 (2,652 ) 4,687 3,283 Colony of Springdale Garden Dec-03 Springdale, OH 1969 261 1,936 9,901 1,322 1,936 11,223 13,159 (4,138 ) 9,021 5,039 Columbus Avenue Mid-Rise Sep-03 New York, NY 1880 70 20,694 23,841  20,694 23,841 44,535 (465 ) 44,070 19,951 Cooper's Point Garden Oct-02 North Charleston, SC 1986 192 746 7,678 81 746 7,759 8,505 (3,016 ) 5,489 3,866 Cooper's Pond Garden Jan-00 Tampa, FL 1978 463 1,505 14,842 1,353 1,505 16,195 17,700 (6,487 ) 11,213 7,599 Copper Chase Apartments Garden Dec-96 Katy, TX 1982 316 1,742 6,987 2,371 1,742 9,358 11,100 (2,952 ) 8,148 6,646 Copper Mill Apartments Garden Oct-02 Richmond, VA 1987 192 1,065 9,139 77 1,065 9,216 10,281 (3,318 ) 6,963 5,549 Copperfield Apartments I& II Garden Nov-96 Houston, TX 1983 196 918 7,759 1,029 918 8,788 9,706 (1,678 ) 8,028 4,334 Coral Garden Apartments Garden Jul-94 Las Vegas, NV 1983 670 3,190 12,572 5,191 3,190 17,763 20,953 (8,019 ) 12,934 10,906 Country Club Villas Garden Jul-94 Amarillo, TX 1984 282 1,049 5,738 1,831 1,049 7,569 8,618 (2,852 ) 5,766 4,814 Country Club West Garden May-98 Greeley, CO 1986 288 2,848 16,150 1,054 2,848 17,204 20,052 (4,677 ) 15,375 10,708 Country Lakes I Garden Apr-01 Naperville, IL 1982 240 8,512 10,826 1,225 8,512 12,051 20,563 (1,678 ) 18,885 11,282 Country Lakes II Garden May-97 Naperville, IL 1986 400 5,166 29,418 2,057 5,166 31,475 36,641 (7,139 ) 29,502 14,008 Courtney Park Garden May-98 Fort Collins, CO 1986 248 2,727 15,455 720 2,727 16,175 18,902 (4,266 ) 14,636 9,496 Coventry Square Apartments Garden Nov-96 Houston, TX 1983 270 700 5,049 2,450 700 7,499 8,199 (1,788 ) 6,411 4,515 Creekside Garden Jan-00 Denver, CO 1974 328 1,717 14,171 351 1,717 14,522 16,239 (5,258 ) 10,981 6,055 Creekside (CA) Garden Mar-02 Simi Valley, CA 1985 397 24,595 18,982 1,515 24,595 20,497 45,092 (1,680 ) 43,412 19,070 Creekside Gardens Garden Mar-02 Loveland, CO 1983 50 350 1,400 55 350 1,455 1,805 (116 ) 1,689 1,633 Creekview Garden Mar-02 Stroudsburg, PA 1982 80 400 1,640 170 400 1,810 2,210 (128 ) 2,082 1,813 Crescent Gardens Mid Rise Mar-02 West Hollywood, CA 1982 130 15,382 10,286 618 15,382 10,904 26,286 (871 ) 25,415 10,700 Crossings Of Bellevue Garden May-98 Nashville, TN 1985 300 2,588 14,822 1,474 2,588 16,296 18,884 (4,538 ) 14,346 7,495 Crossroads Garden May-98 Phoenix, AZ 1982 316 2,180 12,404 1,267 2,180 13,671 15,851 (3,832 ) 12,019 6,106 Crows Nest Condominiums Garden Nov-96 League City, TX 1984 176 939 5,828 1,063 939 6,891 7,830 (1,388 ) 6,442 2,435 Cypress Landing Garden Dec-96 Savannah, GA 1984 200 1,083 5,682 1,545 1,083 7,227 8,310 (2,026 ) 6,284 4,996 Daugette Tower High Rise Mar-02 Gadsden, AL 1979 101 540 2,183 338 540 2,521 3,061 (147 ) 2,914 1,256 Debaliviere Place I Garden Oct-99 St. Louis, MO 1979 146 199 1,986 423 199 2,409 2,608 (839 ) 1,769 2,230 Deer Creek Garden Apr-00 Plainsboro, NJ 1975 288 2,123 17,069 1,609 2,123 18,678 20,801 (6,311 ) 14,490 12,957 Deercross Garden Oct-02 Blue Ash, OH 1985 336 4,587 13,663 201 4,587 13,864 18,451 (3,977 ) 14,474 11,399 Deercross (IN) Garden Oct-00 Indianapolis, IN 1979 372 3,171 10,039 993 3,171 11,032 14,203 (1,886 ) 12,317 8,361 F-52 (2) Initial Cost December31, 2003 (3) CostCapitalized Subsequentto Acquisition PropertyName PropertyType (1) DateConsolidated Location YearBuilt Number ofUnits Land Buildingsand Improvements Land Buildingsand Improvements Total Accumulated Depreciation TotalCostNetof AccumulatedDepreciation Encumbrances Deerfield Apartments Garden Apr-01 Jacksonville, FL 1989 256 3,476 6,718 1,059 3,476 7,777 11,253 (1,081 ) 10,172 7,602 Delhaven Manor Mid Rise Mar-02 Jackson, MS 1983 104 575 2,166 209 575 2,375 2,950 (166 ) 2,784 3,829 Denny Place Garden Mar-02 North Hollywood, CA 1984 17 394 1,578 15 394 1,593 1,987 (87 ) 1,900 1,168 Doral Oaks Garden Dec-97 Temple Terrace, FL 1967 252 2,095 3,932 10,476 2,095 14,408 16,503 (2,674 ) 13,829 5,638 Douglaston Villas and Townhomes Garden Aug-99 Altamonte Springs, FL 1979 234 1,666 9,385 1,566 1,666 10,951 12,617 (2,539 ) 10,078 6,670 Dunes Apartment Homes, The Garden Oct-99 Indian Harbor, FL 1963 200 1,084 6,045 859 1,084 6,904 7,988 (2,941 ) 5,047 3,812 Dunwoody Park Garden Jul-94 Dunwoody, GA 1980 318 1,838 10,466 3,293 1,838 13,759 15,597 (4,654 ) 10,943 10,168 Eagle's Nest Garden May-98 San Antonio, TX 1973 226 1,053 5,973 677 1,053 6,650 7,703 (2,079 ) 5,624 4,160 East Central Towers Mid Rise Mar-02 Fort Wayne, IN 1980 167 800 3,200 76 800 3,276 4,076 (269 ) 3,807 3,477 East Farm Village High Rise Mar-02 East Haven, CT 1981 241 2,800 11,206 428 2,800 11,634 14,434 (833 ) 13,601 9,100 Easton Village Condominiums I& II Garden Nov-96 Houston, TX 1983 146 713 9,762 809 713 10,571 11,284 (2,743 ) 8,541 3,622 Echo Valley Mid Rise Mar-02 West Warwick, RI 1978 100 550 2,319 629 550 2,948 3,498 (160 ) 3,338  Edgewater High Rise Mar-02 Springfield, MA 1974 366 1,500 5,972 526 1,500 6,498 7,998 (573 ) 7,425 6,357 Elm Creek Mid Rise Dec-97 Elmhurst, IL 1986 372 5,533 30,821 2,656 5,533 33,477 39,010 (6,147 ) 32,863 20,716 Essex Park Garden Oct-99 Columbia, SC 1971 323 1,104 9,833 1,190 1,104 11,023 12,127 (4,228 ) 7,899 6,515 Ethel Arnold Bradley Mid Rise Mar-02 Los Angeles, CA 1983 81 805 3,220 94 805 3,314 4,119 (231 ) 3,888 3,848 Evanston Place High Rise Dec-97 Evanston, IL 1988 189 3,323 26,054 1,177 3,323 27,231 30,554 (4,937 ) 25,617 16,556 Fairlane East Garden Jan-01 Dearborn, MI 1973 244 6,726 13,757 835 6,726 14,592 21,318 (2,335 ) 18,983 11,295 Fairway Garden Jan-00 Plano, TX 1978 256 3,074 5,129 428 3,074 5,557 8,631 (2,586 ) 6,045 6,100 Fairway View I Garden Oct-99 Baton Rouge, LA 1972 242 1,169 9,537 527 1,169 10,064 11,233 (4,076 ) 7,157 4,944 Fairway View II Garden Oct-99 Baton Rouge, LA 1981 204 1,287 9,046 398 1,287 9,444 10,731 (3,551 ) 7,180 5,163 Fairways Garden Jul-94 Chandler, AZ 1986 352 1,830 15,732 4,008 1,830 19,740 21,570 (6,367 ) 15,203 9,015 Falls of Bells Ferry, The Garden May-98 Marietta, GA 1987 720 6,568 37,222 3,324 6,568 40,546 47,114 (10,898 ) 36,216 23,510 Falls on Bull Creek, The Garden May-98 Austin, TX 1986 344 2,645 15,005 8,728 2,645 23,733 26,378 (5,340 ) 21,038 8,515 Farmingdale Mid Rise Oct-00 Darien, IL 1975 240 12,068 15,162 578 12,068 15,740 27,808 (2,022 ) 25,786 14,149 Ferntree Garden Mar-01 Phoenix, AZ 1970 219 2,078 13,748 451 2,078 14,199 16,277 (1,388 ) 14,889 4,672 Fieldcrest (FL) Garden Oct-98 Jacksonville, FL 1982 240 1,332 7,607 1,069 1,332 8,676 10,008 (2,067 ) 7,941 5,506 Fisherman's Landing Garden Sep-98 Temple Terrace, FL 1986 256 1,643 9,327 1,646 1,643 10,973 12,616 (2,492 ) 10,124 4,907 Fisherman's Landing Garden Dec-97 Bradenton, FL 1984 200 1,277 7,226 1,107 1,277 8,333 9,610 (2,172 ) 7,438 5,515 Fisherman's Wharf Apartments Garden Nov-96 Clute, TX 1981 360 1,257 7,572 2,585 1,257 10,157 11,414 (2,482 ) 8,932 2,969 Flamingo South Beach High Rise Sep-97 Miami Beach, FL 1960 1,688 16,682 52,076 274,700 16,682 326,776 343,458 (13,264 ) 330,194 84,021 Foothill Place Garden Jul-00 Salt Lake City, UT 1973 450 3,982 21,926 1,538 3,982 23,464 27,446 (8,549 ) 18,897 10,100 Foothills Garden Oct-97 Tucson, AZ 1982 270 1,203 6,823 741 1,203 7,564 8,767 (1,948 ) 6,819 3,252 Four Winds Garden Oct-02 Overland Park, KS 1986 350 1,767 17,092 211 1,767 17,303 19,070 (6,269 ) 12,801 8,821 Fox Crest Garden Jan-03 Waukegan, IL 1974 245 2,120 12,224 62 2,120 12,286 14,406 (321 ) 14,085 7,288 Fox Run Garden Jan-00 Plainsboro, NJ 1973 776 7,006 49,884 6,407 7,006 56,291 63,297 (17,045 ) 46,252 33,228 Foxchase Garden Dec-97 Alexandria,VA 1947 2,113 16,156 100,111 11,874 16,156 111,985 128,141 (27,802 ) 100,339 109,755 Foxfire Garden Oct-99 Doraville, GA 1971 266 1,395 10,422 1,377 1,395 11,799 13,194 (3,839 ) 9,355 6,479 Foxtree Garden Oct-97 Tempe, AZ 1976 487 2,458 13,937 3,226 2,458 17,163 19,621 (4,625 ) 14,996 7,502 Foxwell Memorial High Rise Oct-02 Baltimore, MD 1983 154 2,082 5,290 297 2,082 5,587 7,669 (439 ) 7,230 6,115 Frankford Place Garden Jul-94 Carrollton, TX 1982 274 1,125 6,083 2,026 1,125 8,109 9,234 (2,941 ) 6,293 5,270 Franklin Oaks Garden May-98 Franklin, TN 1987 468 3,936 22,832 4,264 3,936 27,096 31,032 (7,091 ) 23,941 15,540 Frazier Park Garden Mar-02 Baldwin Park, CA 1982 60 769 3,232 43 769 3,275 4,044 (231 ) 3,813 2,409 FreedomPlace Club Garden Oct-97 Jacksonville, FL 1988 352 2,289 12,971 1,709 2,289 14,680 16,969 (3,733 ) 13,236 5,881 FreelandVillage Garden Mar-02 Freeland, PA 1978 79 220 894 211 220 1,105 1,325 (136 ) 1,189 835 Friendship Arms Mid Rise Mar-02 Hyattsville, MD 1979 151 970 3,893 345 970 4,238 5,208 (506 ) 4,702 5,896 Gary Manor High Rise Mar-02 Gary, IN 1980 198 1,090 4,361 85 1,090 4,446 5,536 (341 ) 5,195 5,406 Georgetown Garden Apr-00 South Bend, IN 1973 200 1,023 8,681 616 1,023 9,297 10,320 (3,962 ) 6,358 6,100 Georgetown (MA) Garden Aug-02 Framingham, MA 1964 207 12,352 13,170 521 12,352 13,691 26,043 (814 ) 25,229 16,257 Gholson Hotel Mid Rise Mar-02 Ranger, TX 1984 50 325 1,333 27 325 1,360 1,685 (128 ) 1,557 1,529 Gladys HamptonHouses High Rise Oct-02 New York, NY 1980 205 1,008 7,641 639 1,008 8,280 9,288 (1,296 ) 7,992 7,695 Glen Hollow Garden Dec-99 Charlotte, NC 1972 336 2,157 10,058 1,974 2,157 12,032 14,189 (1,834 ) 12,355 6,880 Glenbridge Manors Garden Sep-03 Cincinnati, OH 1978 290 1,059 17,578 11,442 1,059 29,020 30,079 (159 ) 29,920 21,000 Glenoaks Townhomes Garden Mar-02 Sylmar, CA 1983 48 540 2,124 129 540 2,253 2,793 (164 ) 2,629 2,408 Governor's Park (CO) Garden Jan-00 Ft. Collins, CO 1982 188 1,108 9,059 407 1,108 9,466 10,574 (2,989 ) 7,585 6,695 Governor's Park (AR) Garden Apr-00 Little Rock, AR 1985 154 739 5,840 271 739 6,111 6,850 (2,086 ) 4,764 3,512 Granada Mid Rise Aug-02 Framingham, MA 1958 72 4,582 4,059 86 4,582 4,145 8,727 (376 ) 8,351 5,434 Grand Pointe Garden Dec-99 Columbia, MD 1974 325 2,715 16,782 1,402 2,715 18,184 20,899 (2,801 ) 18,098 10,583 Grandview Garden Mar-02 Los Angeles, CA 1981 26 250 975 12 250 987 1,237 (74 ) 1,163 1,099 Greens (AZ) Garden Jul-94 Chandler, AZ 2000 324 2,303 706 22,453 2,303 23,159 25,462 (2,287 ) 23,175 16,412 Greenspoint Apartments Garden Jan-00 Phoenix, AZ 1985 336 2,051 14,519 836 2,051 15,355 17,406 (5,792 ) 11,614 8,181 Greentree Garden Dec-96 Carrollton, TX 1983 365 1,872 9,834 3,136 1,872 12,970 14,842 (3,102 ) 11,740 9,329 Hamlin Estates Garden Mar-02 North Hollywood, CA 1983 30 1,010 1,690 29 1,010 1,719 2,729 (127 ) 2,602 1,642 Hampton Greens Garden Oct-02 Dallas, TX 1986 309 1,803 10,280 117 1,803 10,397 12,200 (4,002 ) 8,198 5,276 Hampton Hill Apartments Garden Nov-96 Houston, TX 1984 332 1,311 7,090 2,401 1,311 9,491 10,802 (2,404 ) 8,398 5,750 Harbor Town at Jacaranda Garden Sep-00 Plantation, FL 1988 280 10,023 10,647 1,864 10,023 12,511 22,534 (1,786 ) 20,748 11,800 Harbour, The Garden Mar-01 Melbourne, FL 1987 162 4,768 3,399 832 4,768 4,231 8,999 (1,033 ) 7,966 5,180 Harris Park Apartments Garden Dec-97 Rochester, NY 1968 114 428 2,515 759 428 3,274 3,702 (880 ) 2,822 913 Hastings Place Apartments Garden Nov-96 Houston, TX 1984 176 934 4,999 1,704 934 6,703 7,637 (1,080 ) 6,557 4,047 Haverhill Commons Garden May-98 W. Palm Beach, FL 1986 222 1,656 10,228 1,174 1,656 11,402 13,058 (2,959 ) 10,099 9,100 Heather Ridge (AZ) Garden May-98 Phoenix, AZ 1983 252 1,610 9,133 867 1,610 10,000 11,610 (2,656 ) 8,954 5,180 Heather Ridge (TX) Garden Dec-00 Arlington, TX 1982 180 784 4,895 347 784 5,242 6,026 (1,453 ) 4,573 3,469 Hemet Estates Garden Mar-02 Hemet, CA 1983 80 700 2,800 160 700 2,960 3,660 (220 ) 3,440 2,103 Heritage Park at Alta Loma Garden Jan-01 Alta Loma, CA 1986 232 1,203 6,114 1,240 1,203 7,354 8,557 (1,117 ) 7,440 7,264 Heritage Park Escondido Garden Oct-00 Escondido, CA 1986 196 897 6,813 217 897 7,030 7,927 (1,580 ) 6,347 7,299 Heritage Park Livermore Garden Oct-00 Livermore, CA 1988 167 880 8,334 320 880 8,654 9,534 (1,687 ) 7,847 7,432 Heritage Park Montclair Garden Mar-01 Montclair, CA 1985 144 692 4,012 237 692 4,249 4,941 (588 ) 4,353 4,620 Heritage Square Garden Mar-02 Texas City, TX 1983 50 668 857 72 668 929 1,597 (85 ) 1,512 1,329 Heritage Village Anaheim Garden Oct-00 Anaheim, CA 1986 196 1,699 7,980 422 1,699 8,402 10,101 (1,813 ) 8,288 8,858 Hibben Ferry I Garden Apr-00 Mt. Pleasant, SC 1983 240 1,465 8,858 444 1,465 9,302 10,767 (1,427 ) 9,340 6,151 Hickory Hill Garden Oct-02 Frederick, MD 1981 162 876 5,803 165 876 5,968 6,844 (1,388 ) 5,456 5,181 F-53 (2) Initial Cost December31, 2003 (3) CostCapitalized Subsequentto Acquisition PropertyName PropertyType (1) DateConsolidated Location YearBuilt Number ofUnits Land Buildingsand Improvements Land Buildingsand Improvements Total Accumulated Depreciation TotalCostNetof AccumulatedDepreciation Encumbrances Hidden Cove (CA) Garden Jul-98 Escondido, CA 1985 334 3,043 17,607 3,404 3,043 21,011 24,054 (4,610 ) 19,444 18,440 Hidden Cove (MI) Garden Apr-00 Belleville, MI 1976 120 455 5,279 402 455 5,681 6,136 (2,447 ) 3,689 2,703 Hidden Harbour Garden Oct-02 Melbourne, FL 1985 216 2,585 7,678 106 2,585 7,784 10,369 (807 ) 9,562 7,143 Hidden Lake Garden May-98 Tampa, FL 1983 267 1,361 7,807 886 1,361 8,693 10,054 (2,337 ) 7,717 4,750 Hiddentree Garden Oct-97 EastLansing,MI 1966 261 1,470 8,332 1,896 1,470 10,228 11,698 (2,790 ) 8,908 3,723 Highcrest Townhomes Town Home Jan-03 Woodridge, IL 1968 176 3,308 13,053 176 3,308 13,229 16,537 (2,442 ) 14,095 6,265 Highland Park Garden Dec-96 Fort Worth, TX 1985 500 6,268 9,098 3,667 6,268 12,765 19,033 (3,941 ) 15,092 11,046 Highlawn Place High Rise Mar-02 Huntington, WV 1977 133 550 2,200 114 550 2,314 2,864 (141 ) 2,723 2,363 Hillcreste (CA) Garden Mar-02 Los Angeles, CA 1989 315 33,477 47,221 1,551 33,477 48,772 82,249 (2,433 ) 79,816 48,371 Hillmeade Garden Nov-94 Nashville, TN 1985 288 2,872 16,062 9,008 2,872 25,070 27,942 (9,075 ) 18,867 9,445 Hillsatthe Arboretum,The Garden Oct-97 Austin, TX 1983 327 1,367 7,756 11,504 1,367 19,260 20,627 (3,095 ) 17,532 15,001 Hollymead Square Garden Mar-00 Charlottesville, VA 1978 100 312 2,537 354 312 2,891 3,203 (1,230 ) 1,973 3,330 Hopkins Village Mid-Rise Sep-03 Baltimore, MD 1979 165 888 4,193 396 888 4,589 5,477 (2,057 ) 3,420 3,332 Hudson Gardens Garden Mar-02 Pasadena, CA 1983 41 940 1,547 41 940 1,588 2,528 (128 ) 2,400 1,127 Hunt Club (IN) Garden Oct-99 Indianapolis, IN 1972 200 825 5,622 697 825 6,319 7,144 (3,147 ) 3,997 3,608 Hunt Club (NC) Garden Apr-02 Winston-Salem, NC 1983 128 947 3,201 177 947 3,378 4,325 (277 ) 4,048 3,386 Hunt Club (MD) Garden Sep-00 Gaithersburg, MD 1986 336 17,831 12,563 1,300 17,831 13,863 31,694 (2,568 ) 29,126 18,621 Hunt Club (PA) Garden Sep-00 North Wales, PA 1986 320 16,873 13,647 2,307 16,873 15,954 32,827 (3,309 ) 29,518 21,500 Hunt Club (SC) Garden Sep-03 Spartanburg, SC 1987 204 4,206 7,460 280 4,206 7,740 11,946 (451 ) 11,495 5,383 Hunt Club (TX) Garden Mar-01 Austin, TX 1987 384 10,602 11,907 810 10,602 12,717 23,319 (2,026 ) 21,293 19,936 Hunt Club I Garden Oct-00 Ypsilanti, MI 1988 296 2,721 9,385 909 2,721 10,294 13,015 (1,507 ) 11,508 10,319 Hunt Club II Garden Mar-01 Ypsilanti, MI 1988 144 1,684 6,046 350 1,684 6,396 8,080 (949 ) 7,131 5,446 Hunter's Chase Garden Jan-01 Midlothian, VA 1985 320 6,592 9,228 804 6,592 10,032 16,624 (1,785 ) 14,839 10,685 Hunter's Creek Garden May-99 Cincinnati, OH 1981 146 661 3,812 834 661 4,646 5,307 (1,210 ) 4,097 2,893 Hunter's Crossing Garden Jul-02 Baltimore, MD 1979 168 736 6,577 107 736 6,684 7,420 (695 ) 6,725 3,830 Hunter's Crossing (VA) Garden Apr-01 Leesburg, VA 1967 164 2,244 7,758 607 2,244 8,365 10,609 (1,458 ) 9,151 4,285 Hunters Glen Garden Apr-98 Austell, GA 1983 72 301 1,713 341 301 2,054 2,355 (494 ) 1,861 820 Hunters Glen IV Garden Oct-99 Plainsboro, NJ 1976 264 2,166 14,866 1,839 2,166 16,705 18,871 (5,653 ) 13,218 12,036 Hunters Glen V Garden Oct-99 Plainsboro, NJ 1977 304 2,606 17,819 2,265 2,606 20,084 22,690 (6,700 ) 15,990 13,668 Hunters Glen VI Garden Oct-99 Plainsboro, NJ 1977 328 2,399 16,221 2,443 2,399 18,664 21,063 (6,961 ) 14,102 14,226 Huntington Athletic Club Garden Oct-99 Morrisville, NC 1986 212 1,640 11,191 1,110 1,640 12,301 13,941 (4,106 ) 9,835 6,777 Indian Creek Village Garden Oct-99 Overland Park, KS 1972 273 2,327 11,263 2,362 2,327 13,625 15,952 (5,516 ) 10,436 8,117 Indian Oaks Garden Mar-02 Simi Valley, CA 1986 254 23,927 15,896 778 23,927 16,674 40,601 (1,180 ) 39,421 15,500 Island Club Garden Oct-02 Columbus, OH 1984 308 1,982 11,054 267 1,982 11,321 13,303 (2,684 ) 10,619 9,301 Island Club (Beville) Garden Oct-00 Daytona Beach, FL 1986 204 6,853 9,300 1,030 6,853 10,330 17,183 (2,820 ) 14,363 8,440 Island Club (CA) Garden Oct-00 Oceanside, CA 1986 592 18,129 28,321 4,328 18,129 32,649 50,778 (2,735 ) 48,043 37,720 Island Club (MD) Garden Mar-01 Columbia, MD 1986 176 2,450 14,594 608 2,450 15,202 17,652 (1,855 ) 15,797 11,081 Island Club (Palm Aire) Garden Oct-00 Pomano Beach, FL 1988 260 7,762 7,577 2,587 7,762 10,164 17,926 (1,621 ) 16,305 10,652 Islandtree Garden Oct-97 Savannah, GA 1985 216 1,267 7,184 1,224 1,267 8,408 9,675 (2,263 ) 7,412 3,554 Jefferson Place Garden Nov-94 Baton Rouge, LA 1985 234 2,697 16,348 853 2,697 17,201 19,898 (5,689 ) 14,209 8,062 Jersey Park Garden Dec-03 Smithfield, VA 1980 80 99 2,513 154 99 2,667 2,766 (1,220 ) 1,546 1,624 Kern Villa Garden Mar-02 Los Angeles, CA 1982 49 450 1,800 84 450 1,884 2,334 (165 ) 2,169 2,066 Key Towers High Rise Apr-01 Alexandria, VA 1964 140 1,526 7,046 875 1,526 7,921 9,447 (1,244 ) 8,203 5,287 King Towers High Rise Mar-02 Cincinnati, OH 1964 68 160 631 105 160 736 896 (95 ) 801 669 King's Crossing Garden Jul-02 Columbia, MD 1983 168 4,169 7,767 73 4,169 7,840 12,009 (2,788 ) 9,221 5,860 Knolls, The Garden Jul-02 Colorado Springs, CO 1972 262 3,177 15,026 544 3,177 15,570 18,747 (5,608 ) 13,139 9,180 Knollwood Garden Jul-00 Nashville, TN 1972 326 1,835 14,537 1,996 1,835 16,533 18,368 (6,897 ) 11,471 6,780 La Colina Garden Oct-99 Denton, TX 1984 264 1,374 9,134 141 1,374 9,275 10,649 (762 ) 9,887 6,321 La Jolla Garden May-98 San Antonio, TX 1975 300 2,074 11,779 980 2,074 12,759 14,833 (3,423 ) 11,410 7,695 La Jolla de Tucson Garden May-98 Tucson, AZ 1978 223 1,342 7,809 860 1,342 8,669 10,011 (2,616 ) 7,395 5,141 Lake Castleton Garden May-99 Indianapolis, IN 1997 1,261 5,183 29,569 6,909 5,183 36,478 41,661 (6,712 ) 34,949 27,200 Lake Forest Apartments Garden Jul-00 Omaha, NE 1971 312 1,868 13,064 541 1,868 13,605 15,473 (5,552 ) 9,921 6,156 Lake Johnson Mews Garden Oct-99 Raleigh, NC 1972 201 1,259 9,428 970 1,259 10,398 11,657 (3,382 ) 8,275 6,707 Lake Meadows Garden Jul-02 Garland, TX 1984 96 565 3,240 113 565 3,353 3,918 (1,002 ) 2,916 2,071 Lakehaven I Garden Dec-97 Carol Stream, IL 1984 144 1,652 3,838 438 1,652 4,276 5,928 (2,363 ) 3,565 6,198 Lakehaven II Garden Dec-97 Carol Stream, IL 1985 348 2,822 16,101 1,028 2,822 17,129 19,951 (5,497 ) 14,454 15,595 Lakes at South Coast, The Mid Rise Mar-02 Costa Mesa, CA 1987 770 55,378 66,174 2,184 55,378 68,358 123,736 (5,487 ) 118,249 75,600 Lakes, The Garden Jan-00 Raleigh, NC 1972 600 2,816 18,433 2,455 2,816 20,888 23,704 (8,035 ) 15,669 12,240 Lakeside Garden Oct-99 Lisle, IL 1972 568 4,121 30,067 1,706 4,121 31,773 35,894 (9,602 ) 26,292 23,358 Lakeside North at Carrollwood Garden Sep-00 Tampa, FL 1984 168 3,205 5,376 599 3,205 5,975 9,180 (1,001 ) 8,179 6,120 Lakeside Place Garden Oct-99 Houston, TX 1976 734 4,776 36,294 2,813 4,776 39,107 43,883 (13,873 ) 30,010 21,671 Lakewood Garden Jul-02 Tomball, TX 1979 256 794 8,289 156 794 8,445 9,239 (2,376 ) 6,863 5,071 Lamplighter Park Garden Apr-00 Bellevue, WA 1967 174 1,978 8,445 1,887 1,978 10,332 12,310 (2,817 ) 9,493 7,541 Landings Garden Jan-01 Indianapolis, IN 1973 150 633 3,297 929 633 4,226 4,859 (1,714 ) 3,145 3,316 Landmark Garden Apr-00 Raleigh, NC 1970 292 1,652 14,022 616 1,652 14,638 16,290 (6,200 ) 10,090 6,038 Las Americas Housing Garden Apr-02 Ponce, Puerto Rico 1981 250 1,062 9,023 139 1,062 9,162 10,224 (2,411 ) 7,813 7,479 LasBrisas(TX) Garden Dec-95 San Antonio, TX 1983 176 1,082 5,214 1,207 1,082 6,421 7,503 (1,849 ) 5,654 3,946 Lasalle Garden Oct-00 San Francisco, CA 1976 145 1,165 7,915 6,855 1,165 14,770 15,935 (2,614 ) 13,321 3,591 Latrobe High Rise Jan-03 Washington, DC 1980 176 1,241 11,578 2,853 1,241 14,431 15,672 (4,841 ) 10,831 11,591 Lebanon Station Garden Oct-99 Columbus, OH 1974 387 1,694 9,562 964 1,694 10,526 12,220 (2,745 ) 9,475 6,707 Legend Oaks Garden May-98 Tampa, FL 1983 416 2,304 13,231 1,280 2,304 14,511 16,815 (3,969 ) 12,846 6,915 Leona Garden Dec-97 Uvalde, TX 1973 40 34 148 306 34 454 488 (252 ) 236 378 Lexington Garden Jul-94 San Antonio, TX 1981 72 312 1,686 590 312 2,276 2,588 (763 ) 1,825 855 Lexington Green Garden Oct-99 Sarasota, FL 1974 267 1,471 10,125 1,541 1,471 11,666 13,137 (3,708 ) 9,429 6,511 Lighthouse at Twin Lakes I Garden Apr-00 Beltsville, MD 1969 480 2,506 17,270 1,626 2,506 18,896 21,402 (2,063 ) 19,339 11,877 Lighthouse at Twin Lakes II Garden Apr-00 Beltsville, MD 1971 113 697 4,851 358 697 5,209 5,906 (668 ) 5,238 2,754 Lighthouse at Twin Lakes III Garden Apr-00 Beltsville, MD 1978 107 483 3,306 128 483 3,434 3,917 (320 ) 3,597 2,582 Lincoln Place Garden A Garden Aug-03 Venice, CA 1951 143 8,669 18,615 392 8,669 19,007 27,676 (502 ) 27,174 6,400 Lincoln Place Garden B Garden Aug-03 Venice, CA 1951 525 28,444 61,140 1,312 28,444 62,452 90,896 (1,843 ) 89,053 24,908 Lincoln Place Garden D Garden Aug-03 Venice, CA 1951 59 3,867 8,567 101 3,867 8,668 12,535 (246 ) 12,289  Locust House High Rise Mar-02 Westminster, MD 1979 99 650 2,601 143 650 2,744 3,394 (282 ) 3,112 3,130 F-54 (2) Initial Cost December31, 2003 (3) CostCapitalized Subsequentto Acquisition PropertyName PropertyType (1) DateConsolidated Location YearBuilt Number ofUnits Land Buildingsand Improvements Land Buildingsand Improvements Total Accumulated Depreciation TotalCostNetof AccumulatedDepreciation Encumbrances Lodge, The Garden Jan-00 Denver, CO 1973 376 1,924 14,695 1,146 1,924 15,841 17,765 (5,727 ) 12,038 6,707 Loft, The Garden Oct-99 Raleigh, NC 1974 184 1,983 11,724 720 1,983 12,444 14,427 (3,355 ) 11,072 4,064 Loring Towers (MN) High Rise Oct-02 Minneapolis, MN 1970 208 1,297 7,497 155 1,297 7,652 8,949 (750 ) 8,199 1,794 Loring Towers Apartments High Rise Sep-03 Salem, MA 1973 250 693 8,299 1,561 693 9,860 10,553 (4,059 ) 6,494 5,688 Los Arboles Garden Sep-97 Chandler, AZ 1985 232 1,662 9,491 1,651 1,662 11,142 12,804 (2,873 ) 9,931 6,300 Madera Point Garden May-98 Phoenix, AZ 1986 256 2,103 12,574 1,111 2,103 13,685 15,788 (3,713 ) 12,075 8,067 Malibu Canyon Garden Mar-02 Calabasas, CA 1986 698 65,562 53,222 3,504 65,562 56,726 122,288 (4,895 ) 117,393 46,900 Maple Bay Garden Dec-99 Virginia Beach, VA 1971 414 2,600 16,139 2,854 2,600 18,993 21,593 (2,954 ) 18,639 9,251 Mariners Cove Garden Mar-02 San Diego, CA 1984 500  66,876 2,486  69,362 69,362 (2,632 ) 66,730 10,264 Mariner's Cove Garden Mar-00 Virginia Beach, VA 1974 458 1,517 8,971 16,453 1,517 25,424 26,941 (4,623 ) 22,318 12,889 Mayfair Village Garden Nov-00 West Lafayette, IN 1964 72 977 1,280 300 977 1,580 2,557 (279 ) 2,278 1,189 Meadow Creek Garden Jul-94 Boulder, CO 1972 332 1,435 24,682 3,037 1,435 27,719 29,154 (6,336 ) 22,818 6,352 Meadows Garden Dec-00 Austin, TX 1983 100 580 3,664 273 580 3,937 4,517 (1,216 ) 3,301 2,606 Merrill House High Rise Jan-00 Fairfax, VA 1962 159 1,836 10,821 1,289 1,836 12,110 13,946 (1,563 ) 12,383 6,717 Mesa Ridge Garden May-98 San Antonio, TX 1986 200 1,210 6,859 553 1,210 7,412 8,622 (2,105 ) 6,517 4,430 Mesa Ridge Garden Apr-02 Albuquerque, NM 1985 264 1,248 7,162 101 1,248 7,263 8,511 (530 ) 7,981 2,625 Michigan Apartments Garden Dec-99 Indianapolis, IN 1965 253 516 3,688 622 516 4,310 4,826 (694 ) 4,132 1,317 Millhopper Village Garden Oct-99 Gainesville, FL 1969 136 752 5,969 403 752 6,372 7,124 (2,213 ) 4,911 3,981 Misty Woods Garden Jan-00 Charlotte, NC 1986 228 497 8,808 503 497 9,311 9,808 (3,567 ) 6,241 4,958 Montblanc Gardens Town Home Dec-03 Yauco, PR 1982 128 380 3,794 503 380 4,297 4,677 (1,429 ) 3,248 3,397 Montecito Garden Jul-94 Austin, TX 1985 268 1,268 6,891 3,187 1,268 10,078 11,346 (3,781 ) 7,565 5,309 Mountain Run Garden Dec-97 Arvada, CO 1974 96 685 2,616 2,273 685 4,889 5,574 (970 ) 4,604 3,145 Mountain View Garden May-98 Colorado Springs, CO 1985 252 2,546 14,838 832 2,546 15,670 18,216 (4,167 ) 14,049 8,057 Mulberry High Rise Mar-02 Scranton, PA 1981 206 1,120 4,483 559 1,120 5,042 6,162 (421 ) 5,741 2,698 New Baltimore Mid Rise Mar-02 New Baltimore, MI 1980 101 570 2,281 168 570 2,449 3,019 (132 ) 2,887 1,373 New Haven Plaza Garden Mar-02 Far Rockaway, NY 1979 344 2,120 8,401 653 2,120 9,054 11,174 (663 ) 10,511 9,201 New West 111th St Apartments High Rise Oct-02 New York, NY 1929 74 531 3,264 8 531 3,272 3,803 (194 ) 3,609 3,539 Newberry Park Garden Dec-97 Chicago, IL 1985 84 1,243 8,388 172 1,243 8,560 9,803 (1,341 ) 8,462 7,922 Newport Garden Jul-94 Avondale, AZ 1986 204 801 4,358 1,499 801 5,857 6,658 (2,103 ) 4,555 4,272 Nob Hill Villa Garden Jul-00 Nashville, TN 1971 472 2,032 15,096 1,525 2,032 16,621 18,653 (7,576 ) 11,077 6,476 North River Club Garden Mar-02 Oceanside, CA 1983 56 510 2,044 90 510 2,134 2,644 (182 ) 2,462 2,363 North River Place Garden Jul-02 Chillicothe, OH 1980 120 630 4,196 102 630 4,298 4,928 (2,020 ) 2,908 2,744 North Slope Garden Oct-02 Greenville, SC 1984 156 1,702 5,202 181 1,702 5,383 7,085 (619 ) 6,466 3,745 Northlake Village Garden Oct-00 Lima, OH 1971 150 652 3,419 630 652 4,049 4,701 (452 ) 4,249 1,339 Northpoint Garden Jan-00 Chicago, IL 1921 304 1,923 14,146 919 1,923 15,065 16,988 (2,653 ) 14,335 9,634 Northview Harbor Garden Dec-99 Grand Rapids, MI 1982 360 2,008 10,619 1,078 2,008 11,697 13,705 (1,688 ) 12,017 7,175 Northwinds, The Garden Mar-02 Wytheville, VA 1978 144 500 2,009 693 500 2,702 3,202 (349 ) 2,853 2,221 Northwoods Garden Oct-02 Worthington, OH 1983 280 2,059 8,203 379 2,059 8,582 10,641 (1,128 ) 9,513 7,000 Northwoods (CT) Garden Mar-01 Middletown, CT 1987 336 16,513 14,376 1,145 16,513 15,521 32,034 (2,450 ) 29,584 21,275 Oak Falls Condominiums Garden Nov-96 Spring, TX 1983 144 1,017 5,399 1,319 1,017 6,718 7,735 (1,055 ) 6,680 4,416 Oak Forest Garden Oct-02 Arlington, TX 1983 204 1,051 5,795 254 1,051 6,049 7,100 (2,031 ) 5,069 2,700 Oak Park Village I& II Garden Oct-00 Lansing, MI 1973 618 10,205 16,657 4,259 10,205 20,916 31,121 (4,243 ) 26,878 23,533 Oak Run Apartments Garden Oct-02 Dallas, TX 1979 420 5,198 13,929 180 5,198 14,109 19,307 (5,284 ) 14,023 9,845 Oakbrook (MI) Garden Dec-99 Battle Creek, MI 1981 586 3,158 16,318 2,919 3,158 19,237 22,395 (2,626 ) 19,769 7,751 Oaks at Woodridge I Garden Oct-02 Fairfield, OH 1985 332 2,977 11,771 183 2,977 11,954 14,931 (2,808 ) 12,123 10,172 Oakwood Miami High Rise Dec-03 Miami, FL 1998 357 7,618 49,290  7,618 49,290 56,908  56,908 44,919 Oakwood Village On Lake Nancy Garden Oct-99 Winter Park, FL 1973 278 1,207 11,028 818 1,207 11,846 13,053 (4,992 ) 8,061 6,522 Ocean Oaks Garden May-98 Port Orange, FL 1988 296 2,132 12,928 1,140 2,132 14,068 16,200 (3,726 ) 12,474 10,295 O'Fallon Garden Mar-02 O'Fallon, IL 1982 132 870 3,463 186 870 3,649 4,519 (354 ) 4,165 4,160 Okemos Station Garden Oct-02 Okemos, MI 1981 112 577 3,637 127 577 3,764 4,341 (482 ) 3,859 2,804 Old Salem Garden Oct-99 Charlottesville, VA 1967 364 2,088 16,782 2,062 2,088 18,844 20,932 (6,450 ) 14,482 9,187 Olde Towne West II Garden Oct-02 Alexandria, VA 1977 72 151 3,013 120 151 3,133 3,284 (1,140 ) 2,144 3,010 Olde Towne West III Garden Apr-00 Alexandria, VA 1978 75 581 3,460 992 581 4,452 5,033 (520 ) 4,513 3,828 Olmos Club Garden Oct-97 San Antonio, TX 1983 134 322 1,828 367 322 2,195 2,517 (594 ) 1,923 1,053 One Lytle Place High Rise Jan-00 Cincinnati, OH 1980 231 6,900 17,547 547 6,900 18,094 24,994 (2,787 ) 22,207 12,205 Orchidtree Garden Oct-97 Scottsdale, AZ 1971 278 2,314 13,126 2,350 2,314 15,476 17,790 (3,907 ) 13,883 6,129 Oxford House Mid Rise Mar-02 Decatur, IL 1979 156 1,040 4,160 119 1,040 4,279 5,319 (424 ) 4,895 4,133 Pacific Coast Villa Garden Mar-02 Long Beach, CA 1979 50 400 1,600 8 400 1,608 2,008 (161 ) 1,847 1,038 Palencia Garden May-98 Tampa, FL 1985 420 2,804 16,246 7,518 2,804 23,764 26,568 (6,104 ) 20,464 12,610 Palm Lake Garden Oct-99 Tampa, FL 1972 150 699 4,978 895 699 5,873 6,572 (3,104 ) 3,468 2,777 Palm Springs Senior Garden Mar-02 Palm Springs, CA 1981 116  7,011 69  7,080 7,080 (410 ) 6,670 3,999 Palmer Square Garden Sep-03 Chicago, IL 1900 160 540 7,967 1,444 540 9,411 9,951 (4,437 ) 5,514 5,677 Panorama City I Garden Mar-02 North Hollywood, CA 1982 14 416 494 7 416 501 917 (41 ) 876 626 Panorama City II Garden Mar-02 North Hollywood, CA 1982 13 344 500 6 344 506 850 (39 ) 811 585 Panorama Park Garden Mar-02 Bakersfield, CA 1982 66 570 2,284 151 570 2,435 3,005 (198 ) 2,807 2,519 Paradise Palms Garden Jul-94 Phoenix, AZ 1970 130 647 3,526 1,600 647 5,126 5,773 (1,830 ) 3,943 3,783 Park at Cedar Lawn, The Garden Nov-96 Galveston, TX 1985 192 1,025 6,153 1,495 1,025 7,648 8,673 (1,509 ) 7,164 4,646 Park at Deerbrook Garden Oct-99 Humble, TX 1984 100 171 491 214 171 705 876 (726 ) 150 2,479 Park Avenue Towers (PA) Garden Oct-00 Wilkes-Barre, PA 1978 130 292 2,543 396 292 2,939 3,231 (920 ) 2,311 2,239 Park Capitol Garden Apr-00 Salt Lake City, UT 1972 135 709 5,265 570 709 5,835 6,544 (1,980 ) 4,564 2,725 Park Colony Garden May-98 Norcross, GA 1984 352 3,257 18,134 1,804 3,257 19,938 23,195 (5,323 ) 17,872 9,809 Park Place Texas Garden Mar-02 Cleveland, TX 1983 60 390 1,586 36 390 1,622 2,012 (134 ) 1,878 1,716 Park Towne High Rise Apr-00 Philadelphia, PA 1959 979 7,644 48,496 21,493 7,644 69,989 77,633 (11,122 ) 66,511 36,065 Parker House Garden Apr-01 Hyattsville, MD 1965 296 4,263 16,878 751 4,263 17,629 21,892 (5,913 ) 15,979 7,330 Parktown Townhouses Garden Oct-99 Deer Park, TX 1968 309 1,716 12,924 5,095 1,716 18,019 19,735 (3,465 ) 16,270 7,233 Parkview Garden Mar-02 Sacramento, CA 1980 97 1,060 4,240 112 1,060 4,352 5,412 (247 ) 5,165 2,924 Parkway (VA) Garden Mar-00 Williamsburg, VA 1971 148 318 2,443 668 318 3,111 3,429 (1,346 ) 2,083 2,101 Peachtree Park Garden Jan-96 Atlanta, GA 1962/1995 295 4,683 12,425 3,551 4,683 15,976 20,659 (5,039 ) 15,620 12,371 Pebble Point Garden Oct-02 Indianapolis, IN 1980 220 1,829 6,813 90 1,829 6,903 8,732 (1,177 ) 7,555 5,569 Pennbrook Garden Mar-02 Owosso, MI 1981 108 565 2,276 68 565 2,344 2,909 (211 ) 2,698 2,603 Peppermill Place Apartments Garden Nov-96 Houston, TX 1983 224 844 5,150 1,294 844 6,444 7,288 (1,260 ) 6,028 4,336 F-55 (2) Initial Cost December31, 2003 (3) CostCapitalized Subsequentto Acquisition PropertyName PropertyType (1) DateConsolidated Location YearBuilt Number ofUnits Land Buildingsand Improvements Land Buildingsand Improvements Total Accumulated Depreciation TotalCostNetof AccumulatedDepreciation Encumbrances Peppermill Village Garden Oct-02 West Lafayette, IN 1981 192 1,258 6,317 598 1,258 6,915 8,173 (1,088 ) 7,085 4,722 Peppertree Garden Mar-02 Cypress, CA 1971 136 7,835 5,221 970 7,835 6,191 14,026 (487 ) 13,539 6,308 Pickwick Place Garden Oct-99 Indianapolis, IN 1973 336 961 8,882 2,084 961 10,966 11,927 (4,285 ) 7,642 5,933 Pine Creek Garden Oct-97 Clio, MI 1978 233 872 5,175 877 872 6,052 6,924 (1,282 ) 5,642 2,018 Pine Lake Terrace Garden Mar-02 Garden Grove, CA 1971 111 3,975 6,033 589 3,975 6,622 10,597 (345 ) 10,252 4,462 Pine Shadows Garden May-98 Phoenix, AZ 1983 272 2,095 11,883 905 2,095 12,788 14,883 (3,478 ) 11,405 7,500 Pinebrook Manor Garden Mar-02 Lansing, MI 1971 136 620 2,480 461 620 2,941 3,561 (410 ) 3,151 1,063 Pines of Roanoke Garden Oct-99 Roanoke, VA 1978 216 979 7,401 836 979 8,237 9,216 (3,339 ) 5,877 3,829 Pines, The Garden Oct-98 Palm Bay, FL 1984 216 602 3,402 830 602 4,232 4,834 (1,003 ) 3,831 2,126 Pinetree Garden Oct-99 Charlotte, NC 1972 220 996 7,487 945 996 8,432 9,428 (2,899 ) 6,529 4,492 Pinewood Place Garden Mar-02 Toledo, OH 1979 100 420 1,690 419 420 2,109 2,529 (124 ) 2,405 2,092 Place Du Plantier Garden Oct-99 Baton Rouge, LA 1972 268 1,344 10,564 663 1,344 11,227 12,571 (4,788 ) 7,783 6,111 Place One Garden Jul-01 Richmond, VA 1976 114 391 2,721 471 391 3,192 3,583 (1,523 ) 2,060 2,012 Plantation Creek Garden Oct-02 Atlanta, GA 1976 484 3,088 26,271 733 3,088 27,004 30,092 (9,962 ) 20,130 14,496 Plantation Crossing Garden Jan-00 Marietta, GA 1979 180 1,050 9,920 603 1,050 10,523 11,573 (3,951 ) 7,622 4,421 Plantation Gardens Garden Oct-99 Plantation, FL 1971 372 3,879 19,127 1,858 3,879 20,985 24,864 (7,435 ) 17,429 8,999 Pleasant Ridge Garden Nov-94 Little Rock, AR 1982 200 1,661 9,099 2,697 1,661 11,796 13,457 (3,920 ) 9,537 5,525 Pleasant Valley Pointe Garden Nov-94 Little Rock, AR 1985 112 907 5,081 1,419 907 6,500 7,407 (2,228 ) 5,179 3,258 Plum Creek Garden Oct-02 Charlotte, NC 1984 276 3,360 9,525 242 3,360 9,767 13,127 (1,730 ) 11,397 7,867 Plummer Village Mid Rise Mar-02 North Hills, CA 1983 75 650 2,641 38 650 2,679 3,329 (193 ) 3,136 3,010 Point West Apartments Garden Dec-97 Lenexa, KS 1985 172 905 5,429 899 905 6,328 7,233 (1,863 ) 5,370 5,170 Pointe James Garden Oct-99 Charleston, SC 1977 128 466 3,578 593 466 4,171 4,637 (1,107 ) 3,530 3,767 Post Ridge Garden Jul-00 Nashville, TN 1972 150 995 8,028 560 995 8,588 9,583 (3,183 ) 6,400 4,279 Prairie Hills Garden Jul-94 Albuquerque, NM 1985 260 2,017 9,214 2,005 2,017 11,219 13,236 (3,942 ) 9,294 5,860 Preston Creek Garden Oct-99 Dallas, TX 1979 228 1,691 9,202 863 1,691 10,065 11,756 (3,712 ) 8,044 5,254 Pride Gardens Garden Dec-97 Flora, MS 1975 76 61 834 1,142 61 1,976 2,037 (550 ) 1,487 1,168 Privado Park Garden May-98 Phoenix, AZ 1984 352 2,563 15,016 1,330 2,563 16,346 18,909 (4,484 ) 14,425 7,990 Promontory Point Apartments Garden Oct-02 Austin, TX 1984 252 1,525 11,235 284 1,525 11,519 13,044 (3,906 ) 9,138 3,762 Prospect Towers High Rise Mar-02 Brooklyn, NY 1967 154 4,521 7,030 1,459 4,521 8,489 13,010 (473 ) 12,537 2,156 Pynchon I Garden Mar-02 Springfield, MA 1973 250 1,820 7,280 992 1,820 8,272 10,092 (663 ) 9,429 5,071 Quail Hollow Garden Oct-99 West Columbia, SC 1973 215 1,080 7,798 1,003 1,080 8,801 9,881 (2,244 ) 7,637 4,925 Quail Ridge Garden May-98 Tucson, AZ 1974 253 1,559 9,179 1,011 1,559 10,190 11,749 (2,782 ) 8,967 5,560 Quail Run Garden Oct-99 Columbia, SC 1970 332 1,745 12,906 882 1,745 13,788 15,533 (4,472 ) 11,061 8,159 Quail Run Garden Oct-99 Zionsville, IN 1972 166 1,222 6,789 619 1,222 7,408 8,630 (1,962 ) 6,668 5,447 Quail Woods Garden Oct-99 Gastonia, NC 1974 188 491 4,641 544 491 5,185 5,676 (801 ) 4,875 3,439 Ramblewood Apartments (MI) Garden Dec-99 GrandRapids, MI 1973 1,698 9,500 61,558 7,314 9,500 68,872 78,372 (10,561 ) 67,811 34,226 RandolCrossing Garden Dec-00 FortWorth,TX 1984 160 698 4,685 198 698 4,883 5,581 (1,765 ) 3,816 3,103 Raven Hill Garden Jan-01 Burnsville, MN 1971 304 4,538 9,534 885 4,538 10,419 14,957 (4,171 ) 10,786 12,013 Reddman's Pier Garden Oct-02 Charlotte, NC 1983 162 1,172 4,758 146 1,172 4,904 6,076 (449 ) 5,627 4,532 Reflections Garden Apr-02 Indianapolis, IN 1970 582 767 19,414 10,074 767 29,488 30,255 (5,196 ) 25,059 13,500 Reflections (Casselberry) Garden Oct-02 Casselberry, FL 1984 336 3,296 12,287 288 3,296 12,575 15,871 (1,965 ) 13,906 10,700 Reflections (Tampa) Garden Sep-00 Tampa, FL 1988 348 8,174 13,037 1,310 8,174 14,347 22,521 (1,541 ) 20,980 13,500 Reflections (VirginiaBeach) Garden Sep-00 Virginia Beach, VA 1987 480 16,306 13,698 2,047 16,306 15,745 32,051 (2,706 ) 29,345 25,109 Reflections (WestPalm Beach) Garden Oct-00 West Palm Beach, FL 1986 300 5,517 9,838 1,140 5,517 10,978 16,495 (1,634 ) 14,861 8,502 Regency Oaks Garden Oct-99 Fern Park, FL 1965 343 1,137 10,810 2,701 1,137 13,511 14,648 (5,748 ) 8,900 7,078 Ridgecrest Garden Dec-96 Denton, TX 1983 152 424 2,003 1,420 424 3,423 3,847 (1,090 ) 2,757 4,018 Ridgewood (La Loma) Garden Mar-02 Sacramento, CA 1980 75 700 2,800 74 700 2,874 3,574 (107 ) 3,467 2,112 Ridgewood Towers High Rise Mar-02 East Moline, IL 1977 140 700 2,800 115 700 2,915 3,615 (295 ) 3,320 2,176 River Bend Garden Jul-01 Arlington, TX 1983 201 889 4,100 847 889 4,947 5,836 (1,549 ) 4,287 3,965 River Pointe Garden Jul-00 Mishawaka, IN 1974 234 823 4,711 2,181 823 6,892 7,715 (1,237 ) 6,478 4,669 River Reach Garden Sep-00 Naples, FL 1986 556 18,175 18,370 2,436 18,175 20,806 38,981 (3,720 ) 35,261 24,010 River Reach Garden Oct-99 Jacksonville, FL 1972 298 2,389 13,965 1,972 2,389 15,937 18,326 (5,503 ) 12,823 10,274 Rivercreek Garden Apr-00 Augusta, GA 1980 224 629 7,093 1,088 629 8,181 8,810 (2,039 ) 6,771 3,538 Rivercrest Garden Oct-99 Atlanta, GA 1970 312 2,318 16,339 2,179 2,318 18,518 20,836 (4,266 ) 16,570 11,352 Riverloft Apartments High Rise Oct-99 Philadelphia, PA 1910 184 2,104 10,889 29,727 2,104 40,616 42,720 (5,129 ) 37,591 25,288 Rivers Edge Garden Jul-00 Auburn, WA 1976 120 735 5,117 279 735 5,396 6,131 (2,085 ) 4,046 3,693 Riverside Mid Rise Jul-94 Littleton, CO 1987 248 1,956 8,420 2,371 1,956 10,791 12,747 (3,839 ) 8,908 9,095 Riverside Park High Rise Apr-00 Alexandria, VA 1973 1,222 8,360 69,934 8,291 8,360 78,225 86,585 (25,530 ) 61,055 55,909 Riverwalk Garden Dec-95 Little Rock, AR 1988 262 1,074 8,898 1,842 1,074 10,740 11,814 (3,257 ) 8,557 5,522 Riverwind at St. Andrews Garden Apr-02 Columbia, SC 1984 160 884 6,794 60 884 6,854 7,738 (1,761 ) 5,977 4,850 Riverwood (IN) Garden Oct-00 Indianapolis, IN 1978 120 1,067 3,421 710 1,067 4,131 5,198 (683 ) 4,515 3,814 Robert Farrell Manor Mid Rise Mar-02 Los Angeles, CA 1983 35 330 1,358 20 330 1,378 1,708 (137 ) 1,571 1,606 Rocky Creek Garden Oct-99 Augusta, GA 1979 120 450 3,698 338 450 4,036 4,486 (1,481 ) 3,005 2,289 Rosecroft Mews Garden Apr-01 Ft. Washington, MD 1966 304 3,134 10,232 1,313 3,134 11,545 14,679 (2,403 ) 12,276 8,911 Rosewood Garden Mar-02 Camarillo, CA 1976 150 12,128 8,066 710 12,128 8,776 20,904 (617 ) 20,287 7,952 Round Barn Garden Mar-02 Champaign, IL 1979 156 1,120 4,482 172 1,120 4,654 5,774 (399 ) 5,375 4,349 Royal Crest Estates (Fall River) Garden Aug-02 Fall River, MA 1974 216 5,843 12,044 542 5,843 12,586 18,429 (1,120 ) 17,309 11,008 Royal Crest Estates (Marlboro) Garden Aug-02 Marlborough, MA 1970 473 25,177 28,790 764 25,177 29,554 54,731 (2,635 ) 52,096 33,611 RoyalCrest Estates(Nashua) Garden Aug-02 Nashua, MA 1970 902 68,301 45,534 1,403 68,301 46,937 115,238 (3,756 ) 111,482 59,057 Royal Crest Estates (North Andover) Garden Aug-02 North Andover, MA 1970 588 51,346 36,729 1,309 51,346 38,038 89,384 (4,136 ) 85,248 52,132 Royal Crest Estates (Warwick) Garden Aug-02 Warwick, RI 1972 492 22,461 24,075 952 22,461 25,027 47,488 (1,901 ) 45,587 27,640 Royal Palms Garden Jul-94 Mesa, AZ 1985 152 832 4,565 912 832 5,477 6,309 (1,819 ) 4,490 2,846 Runaway Bay Garden Jul-02 Pinellas Park, FL 1986 192 1,664 6,116 158 1,664 6,274 7,938 (743 ) 7,195 2,996 Runaway Bay (CA) Garden Oct-00 Antioch, CA 1986 280 12,804 10,498 1,025 12,804 11,523 24,327 (2,008 ) 22,319 12,100 Runaway Bay (FL) Garden Oct-00 Lantana, FL 1987 404 5,041 16,069 1,380 5,041 17,449 22,490 (2,485 ) 20,005 13,121 Runaway Bay (MI) Garden Oct-00 Lansing, MI 1987 288 2,305 6,965 1,303 2,305 8,268 10,573 (1,603 ) 8,970 8,814 Runaway Bay (NC) Garden Oct-00 Charlotte, NC 1985 280 2,285 9,690 1,416 2,285 11,106 13,391 (1,546 ) 11,845 8,155 Runawaybay I Garden Sep-03 Columbus, OH 1982 304 2,608 12,509 538 2,608 13,047 15,655 (3,524 ) 12,131 10,922 Saddlebrook Garden Oct-02 Norcross, GA 1985 305 4,107 11,375 534 4,107 11,909 16,016 (933 ) 15,083 9,923 Salem Park Garden Apr-00 Ft. Worth, TX 1984 168 728 4,076 654 728 4,730 5,458 (1,408 ) 4,050 2,751 Sand Castles Apartments Garden Oct-97 League City, TX 1987 138 978 5,540 927 978 6,467 7,445 (1,665 ) 5,780 2,613 F-56 (2) Initial Cost December31, 2003 (3) CostCapitalized Subsequentto Acquisition PropertyName PropertyType (1) DateConsolidated Location YearBuilt Number ofUnits Land Buildingsand Improvements Land Buildingsand Improvements Total Accumulated Depreciation TotalCostNetof AccumulatedDepreciation Encumbrances Sandpiper Garden Apr-00 St. Petersburg, FL 1984 276 1,562 9,278 912 1,562 10,190 11,752 (2,985 ) 8,767 3,950 Sandpiper Cove Garden Dec-97 Boynton Beach, FL 1987 416 3,515 21,634 3,001 3,515 24,635 28,150 (5,334 ) 22,816 12,542 Sands Point Apartments Garden Jan-00 Phoenix, AZ 1985 432 2,118 16,470 1,017 2,118 17,487 19,605 (6,446 ) 13,159 9,086 Sandwich Manor Mid Rise Mar-02 Sandwich, IL 1980 90 450 1,800 131 450 1,931 2,381 (101 ) 2,280 1,450 SandyHillTerrace High Rise Mar-02 Norristown, PA 1980 175 1,650 6,602 723 1,650 7,325 8,975 (508 ) 8,467 4,766 Sandy Springs Garden Oct-02 Macon, GA 1979 74 152 2,051 127 152 2,178 2,330 (903 ) 1,427 1,307 Savannah Trace Garden Mar-01 Schaumburg, IL 1986 368 14,325 19,759 840 14,325 20,599 34,924 (3,366 ) 31,558 22,971 Sawgrass Garden Jul-97 Orlando, FL 1986 208 1,445 8,238 1,288 1,445 9,526 10,971 (2,505 ) 8,466 3,545 Scandia Garden Oct-00 Indianapolis, IN 1977 444 10,793 10,061 1,778 10,793 11,839 22,632 (2,317 ) 20,315 13,576 Scotch Pines East Garden Jul-00 Ft. Collins, CO 1977 102 445 4,793 124 445 4,917 5,362 (1,895 ) 3,467 2,607 Seaside Point Condominiums Garden Nov-96 Galveston, TX 1985 102 513 3,045 1,591 513 4,636 5,149 (1,026 ) 4,123 1,780 Shadetree Garden Oct-97 Tempe, AZ 1965 123 591 3,355 1,264 591 4,619 5,210 (1,339 ) 3,871 1,737 Shadow Creek (AZ) Garden May-98 Phoenix, AZ 1984 266 2,016 11,878 1,055 2,016 12,933 14,949 (3,449 ) 11,500 6,054 Shadow Lake Garden Oct-97 Greensboro, NC 1988 136 1,054 5,935 875 1,054 6,810 7,864 (1,733 ) 6,131 2,727 Shallow Creek Garden May-98 San Antonio, TX 1982 208 1,234 7,034 552 1,234 7,586 8,820 (2,059 ) 6,761 4,010 Sharp-Leadenhall II Town Home Sep-03 Baltimore, MD 1981 37 179 1,630 178 179 1,808 1,987 (616 ) 1,371 1,219 Shenandoah Crossing Garden Sep-00 Fairfax, VA 1984 640 17,766 57,171 2,426 17,766 59,597 77,363 (10,021 ) 67,342 32,438 Sheraton Towers High Rise Mar-02 High Point, NC 1981 97 525 2,154 47 525 2,201 2,726 (158 ) 2,568 3,357 Shoreview Garden Oct-99 San Francisco, CA 1976 156 510 4,761 8,996 510 13,757 14,267 (3,275 ) 10,992 3,775 Signal Pointe Garden Oct-99 Winter Park, FL 1971 368 1,422 12,908 1,388 1,422 14,296 15,718 (5,056 ) 10,662 8,231 Signature Point Apartments Garden Nov-96 League City, TX 1994 304 2,810 17,572 1,411 2,810 18,983 21,793 (3,090 ) 18,703 8,912 Silktree Garden Oct-97 Phoenix, AZ 1979 86 421 2,388 457 421 2,845 3,266 (757 ) 2,509 1,312 Silver Ridge Garden Oct-98 Maplewood,MN 1986 186 778 3,779 1,138 778 4,917 5,695 (1,317 ) 4,378 4,525 Silverado Garden Oct-99 El Paso, TX 1973 248 1,021 4,772 632 1,021 5,404 6,425 (2,905 ) 3,520 3,271 Snowden Village I Garden Oct-99 Fredericksburg, VA 1970 132 665 4,337 479 665 4,816 5,481 (1,352 ) 4,129 4,292 Snowden Village II Garden Oct-99 Fredericksburg, VA 1980 122 606 4,000 323 606 4,323 4,929 (1,178 ) 3,751 2,375 Snug Harbor Garden Dec-95 Las Vegas, NV 1990 67 751 2,857 908 751 3,765 4,516 (1,213 ) 3,303 2,166 Somerset at The Crossing Garden Sep-00 Tucker, GA 1989 264 6,593 11,887 1,220 6,593 13,107 19,700 (2,178 ) 17,522 10,000 Somerset Lakes Garden May-99 Indianapolis, IN 1974 360 3,436 19,657 1,316 3,436 20,973 24,409 (4,966 ) 19,443 12,950 Somerset Village Garden May-96 West Valley City, UT 1985 486 4,315 16,718 3,445 4,315 20,163 24,478 (6,092 ) 18,386 10,974 South Bay Villa Garden Mar-02 LosAngeles,CA 1981 80 690 2,768 111 690 2,879 3,569 (329 ) 3,240 3,114 South Park Garden Mar-02 Elyria, OH 1970 138 200 928 284 200 1,212 1,412 (143 ) 1,269 617 South Willow Garden Jul-94 West Jordan, UT 1987 440 2,224 12,069 2,907 2,224 14,976 17,200 (5,350 ) 11,850 8,839 Southridge Garden Dec-00 Greenville, TX 1984 160 694 4,442 261 694 4,703 5,397 (1,607 ) 3,790 3,601 Spectrum Pointe Garden Jul-94 Marietta, GA 1984 196 1,029 5,639 1,905 1,029 7,544 8,573 (2,716 ) 5,857 4,460 Springhill Lake Garden Apr-00 Greenbelt, MD 1969 2,899 13,499 104,134 18,619 13,499 122,753 136,252 (40,357 ) 95,895 110,614 Springhouse (GA) Garden Oct-02 Augusta, GA 1985 244 2,093 7,727 127 2,093 7,854 9,947 (1,038 ) 8,909 7,337 Springhouse (SC) Garden Oct-02 North Charleston, SC 1986 248 3,577 10,014 78 3,577 10,092 13,669 (1,271 ) 12,398 8,600 Springhouse (TX) Garden Oct-02 Dallas, TX 1983 372 3,691 11,896 327 3,691 12,223 15,914 (3,203 ) 12,711 10,300 Springhouse at Newport Garden Jul-02 Newport News, VA 1986 432 6,144 14,801 609 6,144 15,410 21,554 (5,456 ) 16,098 16,600 Springhouse II Garden Oct-02 Winston-Salem, NC 1984 184 1,166 5,147 250 1,166 5,397 6,563 (459 ) 6,104 4,919 Springwoods at Lake Ridge Garden Jul-02 Lake Ridge, VA 1984 180 2,720 9,124 63 2,720 9,187 11,907 (2,108 ) 9,799 7,048 Spyglass Garden Oct-02 Indianapolis, IN 1979 120 980 3,833 277 980 4,110 5,090 (704 ) 4,386 2,973 Spyglass at Cedar Cove Garden Sep-00 Lexington Park, MD 1985 152 3,332 5,105 616 3,332 5,721 9,053 (922 ) 8,131 4,451 St. Charleston Village Garden Oct-99 Las Vegas, NV 1980 312 1,418 11,401 1,050 1,418 12,451 13,869 (4,441 ) 9,428 6,698 Stafford High Rise Oct-02 Baltimore, MD 1889 96 517 2,932 138 517 3,070 3,587 (247 ) 3,340 1,613 Steeplechase Garden Oct-00 Williamsburg, VA 1986 220 9,062 7,945 890 9,062 8,835 17,897 (1,440 ) 16,457 9,425 Steeplechase (OH) Garden May-99 Loveland, OH 1988 272 1,975 9,194 961 1,975 10,155 12,130 (2,471 ) 9,659 7,733 Steeplechase(TX) Garden Jul-02 Plano, TX 1985 368 5,644 14,490 299 5,644 14,789 20,433 (4,869 ) 15,564 14,203 Steeplechase (MD) Garden Sep-00 Largo, MD 1986 240 3,776 15,735 672 3,776 16,407 20,183 (2,326 ) 17,857 11,721 Steeplechase (VA) Garden Oct-02 Fredericksburg, VA 1985 156 3,924 5,166 55 3,924 5,221 9,145 (870 ) 8,275 5,430 Sterling Apartment Homes, The Garden Oct-99 Philadelphia, PA 1962 536 8,907 52,230 2,234 8,907 54,464 63,371 (16,750 ) 46,621 21,677 Sterling Village Garden Mar-02 San Bernardino, CA 1983 80 1,177 2,923 67 1,177 2,990 4,167 (210 ) 3,957 2,115 Stirling Court Apartments Garden Nov-96 Houston, TX 1984 228 913 4,936 1,307 913 6,243 7,156 (1,261 ) 5,895 4,172 Stone Creek Club Garden Sep-00 Germantown, MD 1984 240 13,655 9,180 1,457 13,655 10,637 24,292 (2,658 ) 21,634 11,863 Stone Hollow Apts for the Seasons Garden Oct-95 San Antonio, TX 1976 280 981 5,539 4,102 981 9,641 10,622 (2,883 ) 7,739 4,087 Stone Point Village Garden Dec-99 Fort Wayne, IN 1980 296 1,805 8,637 1,422 1,805 10,059 11,864 (1,586 ) 10,278 5,639 Stonebrook Garden Jun-97 Sanford, FL 1991 244 1,585 8,702 2,220 1,585 10,922 12,507 (2,856 ) 9,651 6,765 Stonebrook II Garden Mar-99 Sanford, FL 1998 112 488 8,732 117 488 8,849 9,337 (638 ) 8,699 3,489 Stonegate Village Garden Oct-00 New Castle, IN 1970 122 156 2,283 240 156 2,523 2,679 (201 ) 2,478 794 Stoney Brook Apartments Garden Nov-96 Houston, TX 1972 113 275 1,848 943 275 2,791 3,066 (306 ) 2,760 2,412 Stonybrook Garden May-98 Tucson, AZ 1983 411 2,167 12,662 1,230 2,167 13,892 16,059 (3,874 ) 12,185 5,598 Stratford, The (TX) Garden May-98 San Antonio, TX 1979 269 1,825 10,743 1,067 1,825 11,810 13,635 (3,349 ) 10,286 5,170 Strawbridge Square Garden Oct-99 Alexandria, VA 1979 128 662 3,471 1,955 662 5,426 6,088 (370 ) 5,718 7,944 Sugar Bush Garden Oct-02 Muncie, IN 1981 240 1,454 7,069 290 1,454 7,359 8,813 (1,227 ) 7,586 5,700 Summerchase Garden Dec-97 Van Buren, AR 1974 72 201 2,077 314 201 2,391 2,592 (1,334 ) 1,258 523 Summit Creek Garden May-98 Austin, TX 1985 164 1,212 6,032 599 1,212 6,631 7,843 (1,220 ) 6,623 3,463 Sun Lake Garden May-98 Lake Mary, FL 1986 600 4,551 25,816 2,833 4,551 28,649 33,200 (7,750 ) 25,450 13,867 Sun River Village Garden Oct-99 Tempe, AZ 1981 334 1,848 13,768 1,284 1,848 15,052 16,900 (5,108 ) 11,792 9,401 Sunbury Downs Apartments Garden Nov-96 Houston, TX 1982 240 880 5,573 1,242 880 6,815 7,695 (1,540 ) 6,155 4,746 Sunlake Garden Sep-98 Brandon, FL 1986 88 610 4,090 568 610 4,658 5,268 (1,668 ) 3,600 2,457 Sunland Terrace Garden Mar-02 Phoenix, AZ 1984 80 490 1,960 113 490 2,073 2,563 (198 ) 2,365 2,220 Sunrise V Apartments Garden Apr-00 Richmond, VA 1976 229 1,256 7,577 1,449 1,256 9,026 10,282 (2,662 ) 7,620 5,926 Sunrunner Garden Jan-00 St. Petersburg, FL 1980 200 858 7,527 389 858 7,916 8,774 (3,213 ) 5,561 4,392 Sunset Village Garden Jul-98 Oceanside, CA 1987 114 1,128 6,399 736 1,128 7,135 8,263 (1,621 ) 6,642 8,016 Sunstone Garden Jul-01 Chapel Hill, NC 1985 260 5,954 8,939 544 5,954 9,483 15,437 (1,575 ) 13,862 10,797 Surrey Oaks Garden Oct-97 Bedford, TX 1983 152 625 3,520 869 625 4,389 5,014 (1,038 ) 3,976 1,942 Swiss Village Apartments Garden Nov-96 Houston, TX 1972 360 1,760 9,325 3,101 1,760 12,426 14,186 (2,506 ) 11,680 6,760 Sycamore Creek Garden Apr-00 Cincinnati, OH 1978 295 1,984 9,601 2,426 1,984 12,027 14,011 (2,495 ) 11,516 7,766 Tamarac Village Garden Apr-00 Denver, CO 1979 564 3,424 21,471 2,235 3,424 23,706 27,130 (7,200 ) 19,930 19,792 Tar River Estates Garden Oct-99 Greenville, NC 1969 220 1,282 14,320 2,602 1,282 16,922 18,204 (3,319 ) 14,885 4,961 F-57 (2) Initial Cost December31, 2003 (3) CostCapitalized Subsequentto Acquisition PropertyName PropertyType (1) DateConsolidated Location YearBuilt Number ofUnits Land Buildingsand Improvements Land Buildingsand Improvements Total Accumulated Depreciation TotalCostNetof AccumulatedDepreciation Encumbrances Tates Creek Village Garden Jul-02 Lexington, KY 1970 204 1,250 8,056 146 1,250 8,202 9,452 (4,057 ) 5,395 3,909 Tatum Gardens Garden May-98 Phoenix, AZ 1985 128 1,323 7,151 586 1,323 7,737 9,060 (2,409 ) 6,651 3,585 Tide Mill Garden Oct-02 Salisbury, MD 1987 104 1,032 4,436 92 1,032 4,528 5,560 (444 ) 5,116 2,661 Timber Ridge Garden Oct-99 Sharonville, OH 1972 248 1,184 8,053 644 1,184 8,697 9,881 (2,226 ) 7,655  Timbermill Garden Oct-95 San Antonio, TX 1982 296 778 4,452 1,969 778 6,421 7,199 (2,052 ) 5,147 3,073 Timbertree Garden Oct-97 Phoenix, AZ 1980 387 2,292 13,011 1,918 2,292 14,929 17,221 (3,803 ) 13,418 6,651 Tompkins Terrace Garden Oct-02 Beacon, NY 1974 193 873 4,948 481 873 5,429 6,302 (361 ) 5,941 3,203 Topanaga 49 Garden Mar-02 Chatsworth, CA 1980 49 3,770 4,919 684 3,770 5,603 9,373 (350 ) 9,023 2,528 Torrey Pines Village Garden Oct-99 Las Vegas, NV 1980 204 895 7,290 618 895 7,908 8,803 (2,805 ) 5,998 4,412 Township At Highlands Garden Nov-96 Littleton, CO 1986 161 1,615 9,793 3,209 1,615 13,002 14,617 (2,998 ) 11,619 10,647 Trails Garden Apr-02 Nashville, TN 1985 248 621 10,329 176 621 10,505 11,126 (4,006 ) 7,120 4,713 Trails of Ashford Garden May-98 Houston, TX 1979 514 2,650 14,975 2,099 2,650 17,074 19,724 (4,672 ) 15,052 8,000 Treehouse II Apartments Garden Jan-00 College Station, TX 1982 156 510 3,911 231 510 4,142 4,652 (969 ) 3,683 1,731 Treetops Garden Mar-01 San Bruno, CA 1987 308 4,566 61,143 1,124 4,566 62,267 66,833 (7,635 ) 59,198 34,754 Trestletree Village Garden Mar-02 Atlanta, GA 1981 188 1,150 4,650 296 1,150 4,946 6,096 (396 ) 5,700 4,145 Trinity Apartments Garden Dec-97 Irving, TX 1985 496 2,052 12,357 2,099 2,052 14,456 16,508 (3,379 ) 13,129 6,847 Trinity Place Garden Oct-02 Middletown, OH 1982 200 1,487 7,188 75 1,487 7,263 8,750 (553 ) 8,197 6,084 Twentynine Palms Garden Mar-02 Twenty-Nine Palms, CA 1983 48 310 1,243 69 310 1,312 1,622 (123 ) 1,499 1,506 Twin Lake Towers High Rise Oct-99 Westmont, IL 1969 399 2,498 19,759 4,526 2,498 24,285 26,783 (9,444 ) 17,339 11,845 Twin Lakes Apartments Garden Apr-00 Palm Harbor, FL 1986 262 1,996 12,587 1,198 1,996 13,785 15,781 (3,892 ) 11,889 6,730 University Woods II Garden Oct-02 Fairborn, OH 1983 42 429 1,546 21 429 1,567 1,996 (488 ) 1,508 1,250 Van Nuys Apartments High Rise Mar-02 Los Angeles, CA 1981 299 4,337 16,366 360 4,337 16,726 21,063 (1,227 ) 19,836 17,648 Vantage Pointe Mid Rise Aug-02 Swampscott, MA 1987 96 4,758 10,110 262 4,758 10,372 15,130 (865 ) 14,265 9,396 Ventura Landing Garden Oct-02 Orlando, FL 1973 184 816 8,200 164 816 8,364 9,180 (3,376 ) 5,804 3,984 Verandahs at Hunt Club Garden Jul-02 Apopka, FL 1985 210 1,940 8,387 187 1,940 8,574 10,514 (563 ) 9,951 7,293 Versailles Garden Apr-02 Fort Wayne, IN 1969 156 349 5,847 342 349 6,189 6,538 (1,889 ) 4,649 2,367 Victory Square Garden Mar-02 Canton, OH 1975 81 215 884 64 215 948 1,163 (111 ) 1,052 931 Villa Azure Garden Mar-02 Los Angeles, CA 2000 624 29,755 70,979 400 29,755 71,379 101,134 (4,421 ) 96,713 75,015 Villa Del Sol Garden Mar-02 Norwalk, CA 1972 120 7,294 4,864 618 7,294 5,482 12,776 (345 ) 12,431 4,848 Villa Hermosa Apartments Mid Rise Oct-02 New York, NY 1920 272 1,816 10,290 711 1,816 11,001 12,817 (2,578 ) 10,239 8,001 Villa La Paz Garden Jun-98 Sun City, CA 1990 96 573 3,360 352 573 3,712 4,285 (834 ) 3,451 3,010 Villa Nova Apartments Garden Apr-00 Indianapolis, IN 1972 126 626 3,724 595 626 4,319 4,945 (556 ) 4,389  Village at Venezia Garden Aug-03 Venice, CA 1951 28 3,209 6,239 36 3,209 6,275 9,484 (209 ) 9,275  Village Creek at Brookhill Garden Jul-94 Westminster, CO 1987 324 2,446 13,262 2,420 2,446 15,682 18,128 (5,473 ) 12,655 13,932 Village Crossing Garden May-98 W. Palm Beach, FL 1986 189 1,618 9,929 1,290 1,618 11,219 12,837 (2,894 ) 9,943 7,000 Village East Garden Jul-00 Colorado Springs, CO 1972 137 883 5,991 652 883 6,643 7,526 (2,543 ) 4,983 2,150 Village Gardens Garden Oct-99 Fort Collins, CO 1973 141 883 5,994 459 883 6,453 7,336 (1,968 ) 5,368 4,190 Village Green Altamonte Springs Garden Oct-02 Altamonte Springs, FL 1970 164 558 6,522 106 558 6,628 7,186 (2,070 ) 5,116 3,379 Village Grove Garden Mar-02 Corona, CA 1974 104 2,722 5,990 484 2,722 6,474 9,196 (419 ) 8,777 3,590 Village in the Woods Garden Jan-00 Cypress, TX 1983 530 2,142 18,114 1,639 2,142 19,753 21,895 (6,909 ) 14,986 13,256 Village of Pennbrook Garden Oct-98 Levitown, PA 1970 722 5,676 42,984 881 5,676 43,865 49,541 (10,365 ) 39,176 28,701 Village, The Garden Jan-00 Brandon, FL 1986 112 559 5,630 465 559 6,095 6,654 (1,868 ) 4,786 3,474 Villas (VA) Garden Mar-00 Portsmouth, VA 1977 196 617 4,103 404 617 4,507 5,124 (1,220 ) 3,904 2,626 Villas at Little Turtle Garden Sep-00 Westerville, OH 1985 160 1,360 5,507 571 1,360 6,078 7,438 (847 ) 6,591 5,765 Villas at Park La Brea, The Garden Mar-02 Los Angeles, CA 2002 250 8,621 48,867 104 8,621 48,971 57,592 (1,703 ) 55,889 38,000 Vinings Peak Garden Jan-00 Atlanta, GA 1980 280 1,649 15,907 995 1,649 16,902 18,551 (6,326 ) 12,225 8,359 VistaDelLagos Garden Dec-97 Chandler, AZ 1986 200 916 4,831 1,239 916 6,070 6,986 (1,592 ) 5,394 3,984 Vista Park Chino Garden Mar-02 Chino, CA 1983 40 380 1,520 108 380 1,628 2,008 (154 ) 1,854 1,740 Vista Ventana Garden May-98 Phoenix, AZ 1982 275 1,850 10,852 1,054 1,850 11,906 13,756 (3,206 ) 10,550 5,560 Walden Village Garden May-99 Clarkston, GA 1972 372 2,045 11,639 2,625 2,045 14,264 16,309 (3,285 ) 13,024 10,259 Walnut Springs Garden Dec-96 San Antonio, TX 1983 224 969 5,095 1,310 969 6,405 7,374 (2,406 ) 4,968 3,673 Warner Center Garden Oct-01 Woodland Hills, CA 1987 1,279 31,054 151,723 5,379 31,054 157,102 188,156 (29,220 ) 158,936 122,000 Wasco Arms Garden Mar-02 Wasco, CA 1982 78 625 2,515 149 625 2,664 3,289 (296 ) 2,993 3,140 Waterford Apartments, The Garden Nov-96 Houston, TX 1984 312 983 6,776 2,007 983 8,783 9,766 (1,762 ) 8,004 4,907 Waterford Village Garden Aug-02 Bridgewater, MA 1971 588 28,585 28,089 925 28,585 29,014 57,599 (2,712 ) 54,887 36,438 Waterways Village Garden Jun-97 Aventura, FL 1991 180 4,504 11,058 1,824 4,504 12,882 17,386 (3,490 ) 13,896 10,401 Weatherly Garden Oct-98 Stone Mountain, GA 1984 224 1,275 7,289 1,139 1,275 8,428 9,703 (1,967 ) 7,736 4,432 West135th Street Mid Rise Dec-97 New York, NY 1979 198 1,221 8,086 2,273 1,221 10,359 11,580 (2,882 ) 8,698 3,256 WestLake ArmsApartments Garden Oct-99 Indianapolis, IN 1977 1,381 3,684 24,505 5,426 3,684 29,931 33,615 (6,870 ) 26,745 12,819 West Winds Garden Oct-02 Orlando, FL 1985 272 1,962 11,549 269 1,962 11,818 13,780 (954 ) 12,826 7,500 West Woods Garden Oct-00 Annapolis, MD 1981 57 1,608 1,912 471 1,608 2,383 3,991 (354 ) 3,637 1,809 Westgate Garden Oct-99 Houston, TX 1971 313 2,317 12,501 1,269 2,317 13,770 16,087 (4,030 ) 12,057 7,483 Westway Village Apartments Garden May-98 Houston, TX 1979 326 2,921 11,370 737 2,921 12,107 15,028 (3,521 ) 11,507 8,643 Westwood Terrace Mid Rise Mar-02 Moline, IL 1976 97 840 3,360 81 840 3,441 4,281 (253 ) 4,028 2,430 Wexford Village Garden Aug-02 Worcester, MA 1974 264 6,353 17,929 387 6,353 18,316 24,669 (1,349 ) 23,320 15,154 Whispering Pines Garden Oct-98 Madison, WI 1986 136 934 3,583 954 934 4,537 5,471 (1,191 ) 4,280 3,790 White Cliff Garden Mar-02 Lincoln Heights, OH 1977 72 240 961 91 240 1,052 1,292 (121 ) 1,171 1,031 Wickertree Garden Oct-97 Phoenix, AZ 1983 226 1,225 6,923 961 1,225 7,884 9,109 (2,011 ) 7,098 3,496 WildernessTrail High Rise Mar-02 Pineville, KY 1983 124 1,010 4,040 95 1,010 4,135 5,145 (269 ) 4,876 4,907 Wilkes Towers High Rise Mar-02 North Wilkesboro, NC 1981 72 410 1,677 164 410 1,841 2,251 (130 ) 2,121 1,891 Williams Cove Garden Jul-94 Irving, TX 1984 260 1,227 6,648 1,638 1,227 8,286 9,513 (2,983 ) 6,530 4,933 Williamsburg Garden May-98 Rolling Meadows, IL 1985 329 2,717 15,421 2,370 2,717 17,791 20,508 (4,716 ) 15,792 10,890 Williamsburg Apartments Garden Oct-99 Indianapolis, IN 1974 460 1,663 16,141 1,457 1,663 17,598 19,261 (8,364 ) 10,897 8,558 Williamsburg Manor Garden Apr-00 Cary, NC 1972 183 1,435 8,186 649 1,435 8,835 10,270 (2,582 ) 7,688 4,150 Williamsburg on the Wabash Garden Dec-99 West Lafayette, IN 1967 473 2,835 17,157 1,560 2,835 18,717 21,552 (2,712 ) 18,840 11,288 Willow Park on Lake Adelaide Garden Oct-99 Altamonte Springs, FL 1972 185 902 7,842 815 902 8,657 9,559 (3,625 ) 5,934 3,627 Willowick Garden Oct-99 Greenville, SC 1974 180 530 4,850 402 530 5,252 5,782 (2,178 ) 3,604 2,884 Willowwood Garden Mar-02 North Hollywood, CA 1984 19 1,051 840 31 1,051 871 1,922 (60 ) 1,862 1,122 Winchester Village Apartments Garden Nov-00 Indianapolis, IN 1966 96 104 2,206 387 104 2,593 2,697 (277 ) 2,420  Winddrift (IN) Garden Oct-00 Indianapolis, IN 1980 166 1,275 3,804 1,057 1,275 4,861 6,136 (796 ) 5,340 4,760 Windgate Place Garden May-99 Charlotte, NC 1972 196 1,044 5,900 999 1,044 6,899 7,943 (1,598 ) 6,345 5,263 F-58 (2) Initial Cost December31, 2003 (3) CostCapitalized Subsequentto Acquisition PropertyName PropertyType (1) DateConsolidated Location YearBuilt Number ofUnits Land Buildingsand Improvements Land Buildingsand Improvements Total Accumulated Depreciation TotalCostNetof AccumulatedDepreciation Encumbrances Windmere Garden Jan-03 Houston, TX 1982 257 2,194 10,797 116 2,194 10,913 13,107 (2,053 ) 11,054 5,636 Windridge Garden May-98 San Antonio, TX 1983 276 1,406 8,263 769 1,406 9,032 10,438 (2,614 ) 7,824 5,430 Windrift (CA) Garden Mar-01 Oceanside, CA 1987 404 25,574 17,533 1,327 25,574 18,860 44,434 (4,085 ) 40,349 28,889 Windrift (FL) Garden Oct-00 Orlando, FL 1987 288 3,666 9,911 925 3,666 10,836 14,502 (1,698 ) 12,804 7,591 Windsorat SouthSquare Garden Oct-99 Durham, NC 1972 230 1,325 8,332 756 1,325 9,088 10,413 (2,229 ) 8,184 4,777 Windsor Crossing Garden Mar-00 Newport News, VA 1978 156 314 2,136 419 314 2,555 2,869 (1,054 ) 1,815 3,383 Windsor Hills Garden Oct-99 Blacksburg, VA 1970 300 1,592 10,426 1,168 1,592 11,594 13,186 (3,218 ) 9,968 6,344 Windsor Landing Garden Oct-97 Morrow, GA 1991 200 1,642 9,301 939 1,642 10,240 11,882 (2,589 ) 9,293 4,597 Windsor Park Garden Mar-01 Woodbridge, VA 1987 220 4,370 16,015 603 4,370 16,618 20,988 (2,265 ) 18,723 13,758 Windward at the Villages Garden Oct-97 W. Palm Beach, FL 1988 196 1,595 9,055 1,603 1,595 10,658 12,253 (2,731 ) 9,522 3,424 Wood Lake Garden Jan-00 Atlanta, GA 1983 220 1,617 13,557 803 1,617 14,360 15,977 (5,657 ) 10,320 7,402 Woodcreek Garden Oct-02 Mesa, AZ 1985 432 2,257 16,488 452 2,257 16,940 19,197 (6,398 ) 12,799 11,761 Woodcrest Garden Dec-97 Odessa, TX 1972 80 42 233 64 42 297 339 (254 ) 85 550 Woodfield Gardens Garden May-99 Charlotte, NC 1974 132 402 2,276 560 402 2,836 3,238 (866 ) 2,372 2,665 Woodhaven Garden Apr-00 Chesapeake, VA 1968 208 804 6,660 688 804 7,348 8,152 (2,006 ) 6,146 5,305 Woodhill Garden Dec-00 Denton, TX 1984 352 1,530 10,454 951 1,530 11,405 12,935 (3,245 ) 9,690 8,805 Woodhollow Garden Oct-97 Austin, TX 1974 108 658 3,725 798 658 4,523 5,181 (1,194 ) 3,987 1,766 Woodland Ridge Garden Dec-00 Irving, TX 1984 130 600 3,758 229 600 3,987 4,587 (1,293 ) 3,294 2,931 Woodland Village I Garden Oct-99 Columbia, SC 1970 308 1,470 11,966 1,368 1,470 13,334 14,804 (4,625 ) 10,179 7,605 Woodlands (MI) Garden Dec-99 Battle Creek, MI 1987 76 496 3,556 174 496 3,730 4,226 (522 ) 3,704 1,859 Woodlands Of Tyler Garden Jul-94 Tyler, TX 1984 256 1,029 5,567 1,455 1,029 7,022 8,051 (2,604 ) 5,447 4,416 Woodmere Garden Apr-00 Cincinnati, OH 1971 150 495 5,316 908 495 6,224 6,719 (2,006 ) 4,713  Woods of Inverness Garden Oct-99 Houston, TX 1983 272 1,988 11,448 1,028 1,988 12,476 14,464 (4,391 ) 10,073 4,776 Woodshire Garden Mar-00 Virginia Beach, VA 1972 288 961 5,510 768 961 6,278 7,239 (1,148 ) 6,091 7,639 Wyckford Commons Garden Apr-00 Indianapolis, IN 1973 248 1,717 4,394 1,384 1,717 5,778 7,495 (2,335 ) 5,160 4,976 Wyntre Brook Apartments Garden Oct-99 West Chester, PA 1976 212 972 8,338 10,827 972 19,165 20,137 (2,139 ) 17,998 10,514 Yorktown II Apartments High Rise Dec-99 Lombard, IL 1973 368 2,980 18,209 1,346 2,980 19,555 22,535 (1,542 ) 20,993 16,935 Yorktree Garden Oct-97 Carolstream, IL 1972 293 1,968 11,415 2,271 1,968 13,686 15,654 (3,549 ) 12,105 5,601 Other(4) 76 3,155 1,889 559 3,155 2,448 5,603 (483 ) 5,120  Totals 171,980 $ 2,085,425 $ 7,247,618 $ 1,267,875 $ 2,085,425 8,515,493 $ 10,600,918 $ (1,847,652 ) $ 8,753,266 $ 5,648,901 (1) Date we acquired the property or first consolidated the partnership which owns the property (2) Initial cost includes the tendering costs to acquire the minority interest share of our consolidated real estate partnerships (3) Costs capitalized subsequent to acquisition includes costs capitalized since acquisition or first consolidation of the partnership/property (4) Other includes land parcels and commercial properties F-59 APARTMENT INVESTMENT AND MANAGEMENT COMPANY REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION For the Years Ended December31, 2003, 2002 and 2001 (In Thousands) 2003 2002 2001 Real Estate Balance at beginning of year $ 10,226,706 $ 7,830,611 $ 6,521,863 Additions during the year: Newly consolidated assets(1) 262,054 1,053,860 1,217,220 Acquisitions 192,365 1,728,558 40,069 Foreclosures  32,371  Capital Replacements 90,602 82,381 67,373 Capital Enhancements 3,006 7,528 31,500 Initial Capital Expenditures 24,842 34,697 61,662 Redevelopment 103,156 145,490 147,319 Disposition Capital Expenditures 23,922   Deductions during the year: Casualty write-offs (15,404 ) (5,144 ) (2,456 ) Assets held for sale reclassification (8,222 ) (134,447 ) (41,466 ) Sales (302,109 ) (549,199 ) (212,473 ) Balance at end of year $ 10,600,918 $ 10,226,706 $ 7,830,611 Accumulated Depreciation Balance at beginning of year $ 1,610,924 $ 1,500,595 $ 857,874 Additions during the year: Depreciation 328,379 266,402 302,590 Newly consolidated assets(1) (20,960 ) 122,936 332,394 Deductions during the year: Casualty write-offs (7,372 ) (1,473 ) (339 ) Assets held for sale reclassification 219 (61,046 ) 27,677 Sales (63,538 ) (216,490 ) (19,601 ) Balance at end of year $ 1,847,652 $ 1,610,924 $ 1,500,595 (1) Includes acquisition of limited partnership interests.