http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1137411/000113741112000120/col_9302012x10k.htm
8300000000.0
COL
2012-11-13
10-K
COL_2012-11-13_10-K.txt

10-K 1 col_9302012x10k.htm 10-K COL_9.30.2012_10K UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D.C. 20549 FORM 10-K (Mark One) R ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER30, 2012  TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 Commission file number 001-16445 Rockwell Collins, Inc .
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) Delaware 52-2314475 (State or other jurisdiction (I.R.S. Employer of incorporation or organization) Identification No.) 400 Collins Road NE Cedar Rapids, Iowa 52498 (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code) Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (319) 295-1000 SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION12(b) OF THE ACT: Title of each class Name of each exchange on which registered Common Stock, par value $.01 per share NewYork Stock Exchange SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION12(g) OF THE ACT: None Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule405 of the Securities Act. Yes  No o Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section13 or Section15(d) of the Act. Yes o No  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1)has filed all reports required to be filed by Section13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2)has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90days. Yes  No o Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule405 of RegulationsS-T during the preceding 12months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files). Yes  No o Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item405 of RegulationS-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of the registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in PartIII of this Form10-K or any amendment to this Form10-K.
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of "large accelerated filer," "accelerated filer" and "smaller reporting company" in Rule12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (Check one): Large accelerated filer R Accelerated filer  Non-accelerated filer  (Do not check if a smaller reporting company) Smaller reporting company  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act). Yes  No R The aggregate market value of the registrant's voting stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant on March 30, 2012 was approximately $8.3billion. For purposes of this calculation, the registrant has assumed that its directors and executive officers are affiliates.
140,213,241shares of the registrant's Common Stock were outstanding on October31, 2012.
DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE Certain information contained in the Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareowners of the registrant to be held on February7, 2013 is incorporated by reference into PartIII.
ROCKWELL COLLINS, INC.
Annual Report on Form 10-K Table of contents PageNo.
PART I Item 1.
Business 1 Item 1A.
Risk Factors 8 Item 1B.
Unresolved Staff Comments 13 Item 2.
Properties 13 Item 3.
Legal Proceedings 14 Item 4.
Mine Safety Disclosures 14 Item 4A.
Executive Officers of the Company 15 PART II Item 5.
Market for the Company's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Company Purchases of Equity Securities 16 Item 6.
Selected Financial Data 17 Item 7.
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 18 Item 7A.
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 44 Item 8.
Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 45 Item 9.
Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 90 Item 9A.
Controls and Procedures 90 Item 9B.
Other Information 92 PART III Item 10.
Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 92 Item 11.
Executive Compensation 92 Item 12.
Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 92 Item 13.
Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 93 Item 14.
Principal Accounting Fees and Services 93 PART IV Item 15.
Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 94 SIGNATURES S-0 REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM S-1 SCHEDULE II E-0 EXHIBIT INDEX E-1 i PART I Item 1.
Business.
General Rockwell Collins, Inc. is a leader in the design, production and support of communications and aviation electronics for commercial and military customers worldwide. While our products and systems are primarily focused on aviation applications, our Government Systems business also offers products and systems for ground and shipboard applications. The integrated system solutions and products we provide to our served markets are oriented around a set of core competencies: communications, navigation, automated flight control, displays/surveillance, simulation and training, integrated electronics and information management systems. We also provide a wide range of services and support to our customers through a worldwide network of service centers, including equipment repair and overhaul, service parts, field service engineering, training, technical information services and aftermarket used equipment sales. The structure of our business allows us to leverage these core competencies across markets and applications to bring high value solutions to customers. We operate in multiple countries and are headquartered in Cedar Rapids, Iowa.
Our Company's heritage is rooted in the Collins Radio Company, established in 1933. Rockwell Collins, Inc., the parent company, is incorporated in Delaware. As used herein, the terms "we", "us", "our", "Rockwell Collins" or the "Company" include subsidiaries and predecessors unless the context indicates otherwise.
Whenever reference is made in any Item of this Annual Report on Form10-K to information under specific captions of our 2012 Annual Report to Shareowners ( 2012 Annual Report) or to information in our Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareowners to be held on February7, 2013 ( 2013 Proxy Statement), such information shall be deemed to be incorporated herein by such reference.
All date references contained herein relate to our fiscal year ending on the Friday closest to September30 unless otherwise stated. For ease of presentation, September30 is utilized consistently throughout this report to represent the fiscal year end date. Each of 2012 , 2011 and 2010 was a 52-week fiscal year.
Financial Information About Our Business Segments Financial information with respect to our business segments, including product line disclosures, revenues, operating earnings and total assets, is contained under the caption Segment Financial Results in Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Item7 below and in Note24 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item8 below.
Access to the Company's Reports and Governance Information We maintain an internet website at www.rockwellcollins.com . Our annual reports on Form10-K, quarterly reports on Form  10-Q, current reports on Form8-K and amendments to such reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are available free of charge on this site as soon as reasonably practicable after the reports are filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). All reports we file with the SEC are also available free of charge via EDGAR through the SEC's website at www.sec.gov . We also post corporate governance information (including our corporate governance guidelines and Board committee charters) and other information related to our Company on our internet website where it is available free of charge. We will provide, without charge, upon written request, copies of our SEC reports and corporate governance information. Our internet website and the information contained therein or connected thereto are not incorporated into this Annual Report on Form10-K.
Description of Business by Segment We serve a worldwide customer base through our Government Systems and Commercial Systems business segments. These two segments are described in detail below.
1 Government Systems Our Government Systems business provides a broad range of electronic products, systems and services to customers including the U.S. Department of Defense, other ministries of defense, other government agencies and defense contractors around the world. Our defense electronic solutions are designed to meet a wide range of customer requirements, but tend to share certain characteristics including design for rugged environments for use in size, weight and power constrained applications. These applications also typically have stringent product integrity and certification requirements with a high degree of customer oversight. These products, systems and services support airborne, precision weapon, ground and maritime applications and are used in line-fit applications on new equipment as well as in retrofit and upgrade applications designed to extend the effective life and enhance the capability of existing aircraft, vehicle and weapon platforms.
Our defense-related systems, products and services include:  communications systems and products designed to enable the transmission of information across the communications spectrum, including satellite communications  navigation products and systems, including radio navigation products, global positioning system (GPS) equipment, handheld navigation devices and multi-mode receivers  avionics sub-systems for aircraft flight decks that combine flight operations with navigation and guidance functions that can include flight controls and displays, information/data processing and communications, navigation, safety and surveillance systems  cockpit display products, including multipurpose flat panel head-down displays, wide field of view head-up and helmet-mounted displays  simulation and training systems, including visual system products, training systems and services  maintenance, repair, parts and after-sales support services Government Systems sales are categorized into avionics, communication products, surface solutions and navigation products.  Product category sales are delineated based upon the difference in the underlying product technologies and markets served.
Avionics consists of electronic solutions for a broad range of airborne platforms including fixed and rotary wing aircraft, unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) and the associated aircrew and maintenance training devices and services. We provide complete avionics solutions (including cockpit avionics, mission system applications and system integration) and also provide individual avionics products to platform integrators. We serve various roles within these markets including system and subsystems integrator as well as provider of various electronic products. For the UAV market we provide cost effective, high performance integrated flight control, navigation, communication and sensor capabilities. Simulation and training solutions are provided for both fixed wing and rotary wing aircraft.
Communication products include full spectrum voice and data connectivity for government and military use in the air, on the ground and at sea. The products support military user requirements for high availability, highly secure, jam resistant wireless communication capability. Products include radio communication, data links, networking devices and satellite communication terminals.
Surface solutions include electronic systems applied to a variety of non-airborne market segments. This includes products and solutions for ground forces, maritime applications, precision targeting systems and surface-based communication network integration programs.
Navigation products are primarily comprised of GPS-based products delivered for precision navigation applications including handheld navigation devices (e.g., DAGR), precision-guided weapons (e.g., JDAM) and other embedded GPS applications.
2 Commercial Systems Our Commercial Systems business supplies aviation electronics systems, products and services to customers located throughout the world. The customer base is comprised of original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) of commercial air transport, business and regional aircraft, commercial airlines and business aircraft operators. Our systems and products are used in both OEM applications as well as in retrofit and upgrade applications designed to increase the efficiency and enhance the value of existing aircraft.
Our commercial aviation electronics systems, products and services include:  integrated avionics systems, such as Pro Line Fusion  , which provide advanced avionics capabilities to meet the challenges of operating in the next generation global airspace. Capabilities include synthetic and enhanced vision enabled flight displays, advanced flight and performance management systems, fly-by-wire integrated flight controls and information management solutions to improve operational efficiency  integrated cabin electronics systems, including cabin management systems, passenger connectivity and entertainment solutions, business support systems to improve passenger productivity and passenger flight information systems  communications systems and products, such as data link, high frequency, very high frequency and satellite communications systems  navigation systems and products, including landing sensors to enable fully automatic landings, radio navigation and geophysical sensors, as well as flight management systems  situational awareness and surveillance systems and products, such as synthetic and enhanced vision systems, surface surveillance and guidance solutions, head-up guidance systems, weather radar and collision avoidance systems  integrated information management solutions to improve the overall efficiency of flight, maintenance and cabin operations. These include on-board information management systems and connectivity solutions, airborne and ground applications and services, and ground infrastructure and services  electro-mechanical systems, including integrated pilot control solutions and primary and secondary actuation systems  simulation and training systems, including full-flight simulators for crew training, visual system products, training systems and engineering services  maintenance, repair, parts, after-sales support services and aftermarket used equipment Commercial Systems sales are categorized into air transport aviation electronics and business and regional aviation electronics. Product category sales are delineated based upon the difference in the underlying customer base, size of aircraft and markets served.
Air transport aviation electronics include avionics, cabin systems and flight control systems for large commercial transport aircraft platforms. We design these items as sub-systems and work with OEMsto integrate our and other suppliers' products into the flight deck and broader aircraft systems. Our products offered for OEM applications in the air transport category are marketed directly to aircraft OEMsand airline operators, while our products offered for aftermarket applications are primarily marketed to the airline operators.
Business and regional aviation electronics include integrated avionics, cabin management and flight control systems for application on regional and business aircraft platforms. We develop integrated avionics, cabin and flight control solutions for business and regional aircraft OEMsand support them with the integration into other aircraft systems. Products offered for OEM applications in the business and regional aircraft category are marketed directly to the aircraft OEMs.Products offered for aftermarket applications are primarily marketed through distributors for business aviation and directly to regional airline operators. Our integrated information management solutions for business aircraft are offered directly to flight departments.
3 Customers, Sales and Marketing We serve a broad range of customers worldwide, including the U.S. Department of Defense, U.S. Coast Guard, civil agencies, defense contractors, foreign ministries of defense, manufacturers of commercial air transport, business and regional aircraft, commercial airlines and fractional and other business jet operators. We market our systems, products and services directly to Government Systems and Commercial Systems customers through an internal marketing and sales force. In addition, we utilize a worldwide dealer network to distribute our products and international sales representatives to assist with international sales and marketing. In 2012 various branches of the U.S. Government, both directly and indirectly through subcontracts, accounted for 38 percent of our total sales.
Our largest customers have substantial bargaining power with respect to price and other commercial terms. Although we believe that we generally enjoy good relations with our customers, the loss of all or a substantial portion of our sales to any of our large volume customers for any reason, including the loss of contracts, bankruptcy, reduced or delayed customer requirements or strikes or other work stoppages affecting production by these customers, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.
Competition We operate in a highly competitive environment. Principal competitive factors include total cost of ownership, product and system performance, quality, service, warranty and indemnification terms, technology, design engineering capabilities, new product innovation and timely delivery. We compete worldwide with a number of U.S. and non-U.S. companies in each of our Government Systems and Commercial Systems businesses. Many of these competitors are also our suppliers or customers on some of our programs. Some of our principal competitors include Honeywell International, Inc., Thales S.A., Panasonic, Raytheon Co., Harris Corp., BAE Systems Aerospace, Inc., General Dynamics Corporation, L3 Communications, Inc., The Boeing Company, Northrop Grumman Corp., CAE Inc., General Electric Co. and Garmin International Inc. Several of our competitors are significantly larger than us in terms of resources and market share, and can offer a broader range of products. Some of our competitors have more extensive or more specialized engineering, manufacturing and marketing capabilities than we do in some areas. In addition, some of our competitors offer avionics and communications solutions with fewer features and lower prices that may compete with our solutions. As a result, these competitors may be able to adapt more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements or may be able to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products. Furthermore, competitors who have greater financial resources may be better able to provide a broader range of financing alternatives to their customers in connection with sales of their products. We believe, however, that our systems, products and services are well positioned to compete in our served markets.
Industry consolidation has had a major impact on the competitive environment in which we operate. Our competitors periodically undertake mergers, alliances and realignments that contribute to a dynamic competitive landscape. During the past three years, we have completed three acquisitions and entered into several strategic alliances to improve our competitive position and expand our market reach.
Raw Materials, Supplies and Working Capital We believe we have adequate sources for the supply of raw materials and components for our manufacturing and service needs with suppliers located around the world. Electronic components and other raw materials used in the manufacture of our products are generally available from several suppliers. We continue to work with our supply base for raw materials and components to ensure an adequate source of supply, utilizing strategic alliances, dual sourcing, identification of substitute or alternate parts that meet performance requirements and life-time buys. These life-time buys involve purchases of multiple years of supply in order to meet production and service requirements over the life span of a product. Although historically we have not experienced any significant difficulties in obtaining an adequate supply of raw materials and components necessary for our manufacturing operations or service needs, the loss of a significant supplier or the inability of a supplier to meet performance and quality specifications or delivery schedules could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.
Our investment in inventory is a significant part of our working capital, and historically we have maintained sufficient inventory to meet our customers' requirements on a timely basis. This investment includes production stock, work-in-process, pre-production engineering costs, finished goods, spare parts and goods on consignment with airlines. Our accounts receivable also constitute a significant part of our working capital. Accounts receivable includes unbilled receivables primarily related to sales recorded under the percentage-of-completion method of accounting that have not been billed to customers in accordance with applicable contract terms. The critical accounting policies involving pre-production engineering costs, inventory valuation reserves and long-term contracts are discussed under the caption Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial 4 Condition and Results of Operations in Item7 below. Additional information relating to accounts receivable and inventory is contained in Notes2, 5 and 6 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item8 below.
Backlog The following table summarizes our backlog: September30 (in billions) 2012 2011 Government Systems: Funded orders $ 2.8 $ 2.9 Unfunded orders 0.5 0.1 Commercial Systems 1.5 1.4 Total backlog $ 4.8 $ 4.4 Our backlog represents the aggregate of the sales price of orders received from customers, but not recognized as revenue, and excludes unexercised options. Although we believe that the orders included in backlog are firm, most of our backlog involves orders that can be modified or terminated by the customer. Our backlog at September30, 2012 includes approximately $2.4billion of orders that are expected to be filled by us after fiscal year 2013 .
Joint Ventures Joint ventures, strategic investments and other cooperative arrangements are part of our business strategies to broaden the market for our products and develop new technologies.
We have a 50percent ownership interest in each of the following:  Data Link Solutions LLC (DLS), a joint venture with BAE Systems, plc, for joint pursuit of the worldwide military data link market  Vision Systems International, LLC (VSI), a joint venture with Elbit Systems, Ltd., for joint pursuit of helmet-mounted cueing systems for the worldwide military fixed wing aircraft market  Integrated Guidance Systems LLC (IGS), a joint venture with Honeywell International, Inc., for joint pursuit of the development of weapons guidance and navigation solutions  Quest Flight Training Limited, a joint venture with Quadrant Group plc, which provides aircrew training services primarily for the United Kingdom Ministry of Defence Acquisitions and Dispositions We continually consider various business opportunities, including strategic acquisitions and alliances, licenses and marketing arrangements, and we review the prospects of our existing businesses to determine whether any of them should be modified, sold or otherwise discontinued.
We completed three acquisitions in the past three years to augment our internal growth plans. These acquisitions were:  flight operations management solutions: January 2011 acquisition of Computing Technologies for Aviation, Inc.
high-performance sensor simulation training applications: December 2010 acquisition of Blue Ridge Simulation, Inc.
corporate flight handling and trip support services: December 2009 acquisition of ARGroup, Inc.
In July 2011, we divested the Rollmet business, which provided seamless alloy and stainless steel pipes and propulsion system components for the energy, petrochemical and defense industries.
Additional information relating to our acquisitions, dispositions and joint ventures is contained in Notes3, 4, 8 and 9 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item8 below.
5 Research and Development We have significant research, development, engineering and product design capabilities. At September30, 2012 , we employed approximately 6,350 engineers.
Amounts attributed to our research and development (R&D) investment are as follows: (in millions) 2012 2011 2010 Customer-funded (1) $ 503 $ 550 $ 516 Company-funded 320 355 345 Total research and development expense 823 905 861 Increase in pre-production engineering costs 123 126 80 Total research and development investment (2) $ 946 $ 1,031 $ 941 (1) Customer-funded R&D includes activities relating to the development of new products and the improvement of existing products for which we are reimbursed by our customers. Customer-funded R&D includes amortization of pre-production engineering costs as disclosed in Note 6 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 below.
(2) Total research and development investment consists of company and customer-funded research and development expenditures as well as the net increase in pre-production engineering costs capitalized within inventory.  As disclosed in Note 6 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 below, pre-production engineering costs capitalized within inventory were $569 million and $446 million at September 30, 2012 and September 30, 2011, respectively.  The net increase in pre-production engineering costs during 2012 was therefore $123 million.  This increase, and a description of the critical accounting policies involving pre-production engineering, are discussed under the caption Management's Discussion and Analysis of the Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Item 7 below.
Intellectual Property We own numerous U.S. and foreign patents and have numerous pending patent applications, including patents and patent applications purchased in our acquisitions. We also license certain patents relating to our manufacturing and other activities. While in the aggregate we consider our patents and licenses important to the operation of our business, we do not consider any individual patent or license to be of such importance that the loss or termination of any one patent or license would materially affect us.
Rockwell Automation, Inc. (Rockwell) owns the "Rockwell" name. In connection with our spin-off from Rockwell in 2001, we were granted the exclusive right to continue to use the Rockwell Collins name for use in our business other than in connection with the Rockwell Automation business or industrial automation products. This exclusive right would terminate following certain change of control events applicable to us as described in our distribution agreement with Rockwell.
Employees As of September30, 2012 , we had approximately 19,000employees. Collective bargaining agreements expire in May 2013 with approximately 1,900 of our 1,950 U.S. collective bargaining unit employees. These expiring agreements are with each of (1) International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, Local Union No. 1362, (2) International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, Local Union No. 1634 and (3) International Union of Electronic, Electrical, Salaried, Machine and Furniture Workers, Local Union No. 787. Failure to reach new agreements with these bargaining units could result in work stoppages which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. In certain of our non-U.S. subsidiaries, many of our employees are represented by workers' councils or statutory labor unions.
6 Cyclicality and Seasonality The avionics and communications markets in which we sell our products are, to varying degrees, cyclical and have experienced periodic upswings and downturns. For example, markets for our commercial aviation electronic products have experienced downturns during periods of slowdowns in the commercial airline industry and during periods of weak conditions in the economy in general, as demand for new aircraft generally declines during these periods. We believe that we are currently benefiting from a commercial aviation upswing especially with production rate increases anticipated by various aircraft manufacturers to meet significant backlogs. Our Government Systems business is also subject to some cyclicality primarily as a result of U.S. Government defense budget cycles. While we believe our Government Systems business is well positioned, the U.S. Government defense budget is expected to decline this year and to decline further in the coming years. Additional information related to the defense budget environment, including the potential impacts from sequestration, can be found under the caption Risk Factors in Item 1A below.
Our business tends to be seasonal with our fourth quarter usually producing relatively higher sales and cash flow and our first quarter usually producing relatively lower sales and cash flow. A large part of this seasonality variance is attributable to our Government Systems business and relates to the U.S. Government procurement cycle.
Regulatory Matters As a defense contractor, our contract costs are audited and reviewed on a continual basis by the Defense Contract Audit Agency. Audits and investigations are conducted from time to time to determine if our performance and administration of our U.S. Government contracts are compliant with applicable contractual requirements and procurement regulations and other applicable federal statutes and regulations. Under present U.S. Government procurement regulations, if indicted or adjudged in violation of procurement or other federal civil laws, a contractor, such as us, could be subject to fines, penalties, repayments or other damages. U.S. Government regulations also provide that certain findings against a contractor may lead to suspension or debarment from eligibility for awards of new U.S. Government contracts for up to three years.
The sale, installation and operation of our products in commercial aviation applications is subject to continued compliance with applicable regulatory requirements and future changes to those requirements. In the U.S., our commercial aviation products are required to comply with Federal Aviation Administration regulations governing production and quality systems, airworthiness and installation approvals, repair procedures and continuing operational safety. Some of our products, such as radio frequency transmitters and receivers, must also comply with Federal Communications Commission regulations governing authorization and operational approval of telecommunications equipment.
Internationally, similar requirements exist for airworthiness, installation and operational approvals. These requirements are administered by the national aviation authorities of each country and, in the case of Europe, coordinated by the European Joint Aviation Authorities. Many countries also impose specific telecommunications equipment requirements, administered through their national aviation authorities or telecommunications authorities. In Europe, approval to import products also requires compliance with European Commission directives, such as those associated with electrical safety, electro-magnetic compatibility, use of metric units of measurement and restrictions on the use of lead.
Products already in service may also become subject to mandatory changes for continued regulatory compliance as a result of any identified safety issue, which can arise from an aircraft accident, incident or service difficulty report.
Our products and technical data are controlled for export and import under various regulatory agencies. Audits and investigations by these agencies are a regular occurrence to ensure compliance with applicable federal statutes and regulations. Violations, including as a successor to an acquired business, can result in fines and penalties assessed against the Company as well as individuals, and the most egregious acts may result in a complete loss of export privileges.
Although we do not have any significant regulatory action pending against us, any such action could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.
7 Environmental Matters Federal, state and local requirements relating to the discharge of substances into the environment, the disposal of hazardous wastes and other activities affecting the environment have had and will continue to have an impact on our manufacturing operations. To date, compliance with environmental requirements and resolution of environmental claims have been accomplished without material effect on our liquidity and capital resources, competitive position or financial condition. We believe that our expenditures for environmental capital investment and remediation necessary to comply with present regulations governing environmental protection and other expenditures for the resolution of environmental claims will not have a material adverse effect on our business or financial condition, but could possibly be material to the results of operations or cash flows of any one period. Additional information on environmental matters is contained in Note21 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item8 below.
Geographic Information Our principal markets outside the U.S are in France, Canada, the United Kingdom, Germany, Japan, Australia, China, Italy, Sweden, Spain, Singapore, Brazil, United Arab Emirates, India and Saudi Arabia. In addition to normal business risks, operations outside the U.S. are subject to other risks, including political, economic and social environments, governmental laws and regulations and currency revaluations and fluctuations.
Selected financial information by major geographic area for each of the three years in the period ended September30, 2012 is contained in Note24 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item8 below.
Item 1A.
Risk Factors.
Reduction in U.S. Government spending may adversely impact Government Systems sales and profitability.
In 2012 , 38 percent of our sales were derived from U.S. Government contracts, both directly and indirectly through subcontracts. Defense funding by the U.S. Government faces significant pressures and is expected to decline over the next few years due to the overall economic environment, budget deficits and competing budget priorities. Cost cutting, efficiency initiatives, reprioritization and other affordability analysis by the U.S. Government on defense spending could present some additional opportunities for us, but overall may adversely impact our Government Systems sales and profitability.
Unless the U.S. Government takes further action, the Budget Control Act of 2011 (Budget Act) will trigger substantial, automatic reductions in both defense and discretionary spending in January 2013. While the impact of sequestration is yet to be determined, automatic across-the-board cuts would be in addition to reductions already reflected in the defense funding over a ten-year period. The resulting automatic across-the-board budget cuts in sequestration could have significant consequences to our business and industry. There could be disruption of ongoing programs and initiatives and personnel reductions that could severely impact advanced manufacturing operations and engineering expertise, and accelerate the loss of skills and knowledge.
We offer a diverse range of defense products and services. We believe that this makes it less likely that cuts in any specific contract or program will have a long-term effect on our business; however, termination of multiple or large programs or contracts could adversely affect our business and future financial performance. Potential changes in funding priorities may afford new or additional opportunities for our businesses in terms of existing, follow-on or replacement programs. While we would expect to compete, and be well positioned as the incumbent on existing programs, we may not be successful, and any replacement programs may be funded at lower levels.
In years when the U.S. Government does not complete its budget process before the end of its fiscal year (September 30), government operations typically are funded through a continuing resolution that authorizes agencies of the U.S. Government to continue to operate, but does not authorize new spending initiatives. When the U.S. Government operates under a continuing resolution, delays can occur in the procurement of products and services. Should a continuing resolution be prolonged further or extended through all or a large part of the government fiscal year, it may cause procurement awards to shift and cause our revenues to vary between periods.
During periods covered by continuing resolutions (or until the regular appropriation bills are passed), we may experience delays in procurement of products and services due to lack of funding, and those delays may affect our results of operations. At times, we may continue to work without funding, and use our own funds in order to meet our customer's desired delivery dates for products or services. It is uncertain at this time which of our programs' funding could be reduced in future years or whether new legislation will be passed by Congress in the next fiscal year that could result in additional or alternative funding cuts.
8 We depend to a significant degree on U.S. Government contracts, which are subject to unique risks.
In addition to normal business risks, our supply of systems and products to the U.S. Government is subject to unique risks which are largely beyond our control. These risks include:  dependence on Congressional appropriations and administrative allotment of funds  the ability of the U.S. Government to terminate, without prior notice, partially completed government programs and contracts that were previously authorized  changes in governmental procurement legislation and regulations and other policies which may reflect military and political developments  significant changes in contract scheduling or program structure, which generally result in delays or reductions in deliveries  intense competition for available U.S. Government business necessitating increases in time and investment for design and development  difficulty of forecasting costs and schedules when bidding on developmental and highly sophisticated technical work  changes over the life of U.S. Government contracts, particularly development contracts, which generally result in adjustments of contract prices  claims based on U.S. Government work and violation of associated compliance and other requirements, which may result in fines, the cancellation or suspension of payments or suspension or debarment proceedings affecting potential further business with the U.S. Government International conflicts and terrorism may adversely affect our business.
International conflicts such as the war in Afghanistan, political turmoil in the Middle and Far East and the possibility of future terrorist attacks cause significant uncertainty with respect to U.S. and other business and financial markets and may adversely affect our business. These international conflicts also affect the price of oil, which has a significant impact on the financial health of our commercial customers. Although our Government Systems business may experience greater demand for its products as a result of increased government defense spending, factors arising (directly or indirectly) from international conflicts or terrorism which may adversely affect our commercial business include reduced aircraft build rates, upgrades, maintenance and spending on discretionary products such as in-flight entertainment, as well as increases in the cost of property and aviation products insurance and increased restrictions placed on our insurance policies.
Our business is heavily concentrated in the aviation industry.
As a provider of products and services to the aviation industry, we are significantly affected by the overall economic condition of that industry. The aviation industry is historically cyclical.
Our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be adversely impacted, among other things, by the following:  reductions in demand for aircraft and delayed aircraft delivery schedules  challenges in the financial condition of some of our existing and potential customers  reductions in the need for, or the deferral of, aircraft maintenance and repair services and spare parts support  retirement or storage of older generation aircraft, resulting in fewer retrofits and less demand for services for those aircraft  limited availability of financing for airlines or aircraft  high fuel costs 9  health pandemics or other disruptions to commercial air travel demand New airspace management technologies may impact future sales.
The aerospace industry is experiencing a global transition from traditional communications, navigation, surveillance and air traffic control systems to air traffic management systems utilizing satellite-based technologies that will allow pilots to fly at desired paths and speeds selected in real time, while still complying with instrument flight regulations. The transition to these technologies will require the use of digital communications systems, global positioning system navigation, satellite surveillance techniques and ground surveillance systems. These technologies are expected to result in more direct and efficient flight routes, fewer flight delays and reduced airport congestion. Although we believe that we are well positioned to participate in this market evolution, our ability to capitalize on the transition to these airspace management technologies is subject to various risks, including:  delays in the development of the necessary satellite and ground infrastructure by the U.S. and other governments  delays in adopting national and international regulatory standards  competitors developing better products  failure of our product development investments in communications, navigation and surveillance products that enable airspace management technologies to coincide with market evolution to, and demand for, these products  the ability and desire of customers to invest in products enabling airspace management technologies A global or regional recession may adversely affect us.
If a recession emerges that impacts where we do business, risks may include:  declines in revenues, profitability and cash flows from reduced orders, payment delays or other factors caused by the economic problems of our customers  adverse impacts on our access to short-term commercial paper borrowings or other credit sources  supply problems associated with any financial constraints faced by our suppliers We derive a significant portion of our revenues from international sales and are subject to the risks of doing business outside the U.S.
In 2012 , 33 percent of our total revenues were from sales of our products and services internationally. We expect that international sales will continue to account for a significant portion of our total sales. As a result, we are subject to risks of doing business internationally, including:  laws, regulations and policies of non-U.S. governments relating to investments and operations, as well as U.S. laws affecting the activities of U.S. companies abroad  regulatory requirements and potential changes, including imposition of tariffs or embargoes, export controls and other trade restrictions and antitrust and data privacy requirements  changes in government spending on defense programs, including the potential spending decline in European countries  uncertainties and restrictions concerning the availability of funding, credit or guarantees  requirements of certain customers which obligate us to specified levels of in-country purchases, manufacturing or investments, known as offsets, and penalties in the event we fail to perform in accordance with the offset requirements  import and export licensing requirements and regulations  uncertainties as to local laws and enforcement of contract and intellectual property rights 10  rapid changes in government, economic and political policies, political or civil unrest or the threat of international boycotts or U.S. anti-boycott legislation We have made, and expect to continue to make, strategic acquisitions that involve significant risks and uncertainties.
We completed three acquisitions in the last three years and we intend to make acquisitions in the future in an effort to enhance shareowner value. Acquisitions involve a certain amount of risks and uncertainties such as:  the difficulty in integrating newly-acquired businesses and operations in an efficient and cost-effective manner and the risk that we encounter significant unanticipated costs or other problems associated with integration  the challenges in achieving strategic objectives, cost savings and other benefits expected from acquisitions  the risk that our markets do not evolve as anticipated and that the technologies acquired do not prove to be those needed to be successful in those markets  the risk that we assume significant liabilities that exceed the limitations of any applicable indemnification provisions or the financial resources of any indemnifying parties  the potential loss of key employees of the acquired businesses  the risk of diverting the attention of senior management from our existing operations We enter into fixed-price contracts that could subject us to losses in the event that we have cost overruns.
During 2012 , approximately 93percent of our total sales were from, and a significant portion of our anticipated future sales will be from, fixed-price contracts. This allows us to benefit from cost savings, but it carries the burden of potential cost overruns since we assume all of the cost risk. If our initial cost estimates are incorrect, we can incur losses on these contracts. These fixed-price contracts can expose us to potentially large losses because the customer may compel us to complete a project or, in the event of a termination for default, pay the entire incremental cost of its replacement by another provider regardless of the size of any cost overruns that occur over the life of the contract. Because many of these projects involve new technologies and applications and can last for years, unforeseen events such as technological difficulties, fluctuations in the price of raw materials, problems with subcontractors and cost overruns can result in the contractual price becoming less favorable or even unprofitable to us over time. Furthermore, if we do not meet project deadlines or specifications, we may need to renegotiate contracts on less favorable terms, be forced to pay penalties or liquidated damages or suffer major losses if the customer exercises its right to terminate. In addition, some of our contracts have provisions relating to cost controls and audit rights, and if we fail to meet the terms specified in those contracts we may not realize their full benefits. Our results of operations are dependent on our ability to maximize our earnings from our contracts. Lower earnings caused by cost overruns could have an adverse impact on our financial condition, operating results and cash flows.
Costs of certain employee and retiree benefits may continue to rise.
Although we have taken action seeking to contain volatility in the costs related to medical and pension benefits, there are risks that our costs for these benefits will increase as a result of:  continued increases in medical costs related to current employees due to increased usage of medical benefits, medical inflation and the impact of recent U.S. Government health care legislation  material changes in legislation or market dynamics as a result impacting medical or pension matters  the effect declines in the stock and bond markets have on the performance of our pension plan assets  potential reductions in the discount rate used to determine the present value of our retirement benefit obligations 11 Tax changes could affect our effective tax rate and future profitability.
Our future results could be adversely affected by changes in the effective tax rate as a result of changes in our overall profitability and changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in tax legislation, the results of audits and examination of previously filed tax returns and continuing assessment of our tax exposures.
We depend on critical suppliers and subcontractors.
We do not always have alternate sources of supply readily available for certain goods or services, such as liquid crystal displays. The loss of a significant supplier or subcontractor or their inability to meet performance, quality or delivery requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operation and cash flows.
We depend on specialized test equipment.
Some of our specialized test equipment that supports the reliability of our products and systems is the result of significant investment. Back-up test equipment may not be readily available. Damage to our specialized test equipment may result in protracted production recovery.
A cybersecurity incident could have negative impact.
A cyber-attack that bypasses our information technology (IT) security systems causing an IT security breach, may lead to a material disruption of our IT business systems and/or the loss of business information resulting in adverse business impact. Risks may include:  future results could be adversely affected due to the theft, destruction, loss, misappropriation or release of confidential data or intellectual property  operational or business delays resulting from the disruption of IT systems and subsequent mitigation activities  negative publicity resulting in reputation or brand damage with our customers, partners or industry peers Cautionary Statement This Annual Report on Form10-K, and documents that are incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form10-K, contain statements, including certain projections and business trends, that are forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Actual results may differ materially from those projected as a result of certain risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to the financial condition of our customers, including bankruptcies; the health of the global economy, including potential deterioration in economic and financial market conditions; the rate of recovery of the commercial OEM production rates and the aftermarket; the impacts of natural disasters, including operational disruption, potential supply shortages and other economic impacts; cybersecurity threats, including the potential misappropriation of assets or other sensitive information, corruption of data or operational disruption; delays related to the award of domestic and international contracts; unanticipated impacts of sequestration and other provisions of the Budget Control Act of 2011 that are set to be implemented in January 2013; the discontinuance of support for military transformation and modernization programs; potential adverse impact of oil prices on the commercial aerospace industry; the impact of terrorist events on the commercial aerospace industry; declining defense budgets resulting from budget deficits in the U.S. and abroad; changes in domestic and foreign government spending, budgetary, procurement and trade policies adverse to our businesses; market acceptance of our new and existing technologies, products and services; reliability of and customer satisfaction with our products and services; favorable outcomes on or potential cancellation or restructuring of contracts, orders or program priorities by our customers; timing of  international contract awards; recruitment and retention of qualified personnel; regulatory restrictions on air travel due to environmental concerns; effective negotiation of collective bargaining agreements by us and our customers, including our collective bargaining agreements set to expire in May 2013; performance of our customers and subcontractors; risks inherent in development and fixed-price contracts, particularly the risk of cost overruns; risk of significant reduction to air travel or aircraft capacity beyond our forecasts; our ability to execute to our internal performance plans such as our productivity and quality improvements and cost reduction initiatives; achievement of our acquisition and related integration plans; continuing to maintain our planned effective tax rates; our ability to develop contract compliant systems and products on schedule and within anticipated cost estimates; risk of fines and penalties related to noncompliance with laws and regulations including export control and environmental regulations; risk of asset impairments; our ability to win new business and convert those orders to sales within the fiscal year in accordance with our annual operating plan; and the uncertainties of the outcome of lawsuits, claims and legal proceedings, as well as other risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to those detailed 12 herein and from time to time in our Securities and Exchange Commission filings. These forward-looking statements are made only as of the date hereof and the company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement.
Item 1B.
Unresolved Staff Comments.
None Item 2.
Properties.
As of September30, 2012 , we operated approximately 20 manufacturing facilities throughout the U.S. and various manufacturing facilities in Mexico, France, Germany and the United Kingdom. The Company also had engineering facilities, sales offices, warehouses and service locations in approximately 20 countries around the world. These facilities have aggregate floor space of approximately 7million square feet. Of this floor space, approximately 55percent is owned and approximately 45percent is leased. There are no major encumbrances on any of our plants or equipment, other than financing arrangements which in the aggregate are not significant. In the opinion of management, our properties have been well maintained, are in sound operating condition and contain all equipment and facilities necessary to operate at present levels. A summary of floor space of these facilities at September30, 2012 is as follows: Location Owned Facilities Leased Facilities Total (in thousands of square feet) U.S.
3,362 2,378 5,740 Europe 329 300 629 Canada and Mexico  132 132 Asia Pacific  204 204 South America  9 9 Total 3,691 3,023 6,714 Type of Facility Owned Facilities Leased Facilities Total (in thousands of square feet) Manufacturing and service 1,852 1,300 3,152 Sales, engineering and general office space 1,839 1,723 3,562 Total 3,691 3,023 6,714 We have facilities with a total of at least 100,000 square feet in the following cities: Cedar Rapids, Iowa (3,200,000 square feet), Richardson, Texas (390,000 square feet), Melbourne, Florida (380,000 square feet), Heidelberg, Germany (240,000 square feet), Tustin, California (215,000 square feet), Sterling, Virginia (210,000 square feet), Coralville, Iowa (180,000 square feet), Wilsonville, Oregon (180,000 square feet), Duluth, Georgia (160,000 square feet), Toulouse, France (160,000 square feet), Salt Lake City, Utah (120,000 square feet), Hyderabad, India (115,000 square feet) and Mexicali, Mexico (105,000 square feet). Most of our facilities are generally shared for the benefit of our Government Systems and Commercial Systems businesses.
We purchase property insurance covering physical damage to our facilities and resulting business interruption from the perils of fire, windstorm, flood and earthquake. This insurance generally provides replacement cost coverage subject to a $10 million deductible with certain exceptions, including earthquake and high windstorm prone locations that could impose a higher deductible. For example, certain of our facilities, including those located in California and Mexico, are located near major earthquake fault lines. For those facilities we maintain earthquake insurance with limits that may be less than full replacement cost and a $25 million deductible. These exceptions are largely driven by the availability and cost of catastrophe coverage from the insurance markets.
13 Item 3.
Legal Proceedings.
Various lawsuits, claims and proceedings have been or may be instituted or asserted against us relating to the conduct of our business, including those pertaining to product liability, intellectual property, environmental, safety and health, exporting or importing, contract, employment and regulatory matters. Although the outcome of litigation cannot be predicted with certainty and some lawsuits, claims or proceedings may be disposed of unfavorably to us, management believes the disposition of matters that are pending or asserted will not have a material adverse effect on our business or financial condition, but could possibly be material to the results of operations or cash flows of any one quarter.
Item 4.
Mine Safety Disclosures.
Not applicable.
14 Item 4A.
Executive Officers of the Company.
The name, age, office and position held with us, and principal occupations and employment during the past five years of each of our executive officers as of November13, 2012 are as follows: Name, Office and Position, and Principal Occupations and Employment Age ClaytonM. Jones Chairman of the Board of Rockwell Collins since June 2002; Chief Executive Officer of Rockwell Collins since June 2001; President of Rockwell Collins from June 2001 to September 2012 63 RobertK. Ortberg President of Rockwell Collins since September 2012;  Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, Government Systems from February 2010 to September 2012; Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, Commercial Systems of Rockwell Collins prior thereto 52 BarryM. Abzug Senior Vice President, Corporate Development of Rockwell Collins since October 2001 60 PatrickE. Allen Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Rockwell Collins since January 2005 48 John-PaulE. Besong Senior Vice President, e-Business of Rockwell Collins since April 2007; Senior Vice President of e-Business& Lean Electronics of Rockwell Collins prior thereto 59 GaryR. Chadick Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of Rockwell Collins since July 2001 51 GregoryS. Churchill Executive Vice President, International and Service Solutions since February 2010; Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, Government Systems of Rockwell Collins prior thereto 55 Philip J. Jasper Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, Government Systems since September 2012; Vice President, Business Development, Government Systems from May 2010 to September 2012; Vice President & General Manager, Mobility and Rotary Wing Solutions of Rockwell Collins prior thereto.
44 Bruce M. King Senior Vice President, Operations of Rockwell Collins since May 2011; Vice President and General Manager Communications Products of Rockwell Collins from September 2010 to May 2011; Vice President and General Manager, Surface Solutions of Rockwell Collins from January 2008 to September 2010; Vice President and General Manager, Communication Systems of Rockwell Collins prior thereto 51 RonaldW. Kirchenbauer Senior Vice President, Human Resources of Rockwell Collins since April2003 65 Nan Mattai Senior Vice President, Engineering and Technology of Rockwell Collins since November 2004 60 MarshaA. Schulte Vice President, Finance& Controller of Rockwell Collins since May 2006 55 KentL. Statler Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, Commercial Systems since February 2010; Executive Vice President, Rockwell Collins Services of Rockwell Collins prior thereto 47 Douglas E. Stenske Vice President, Treasurer and Financial Planning of Rockwell Collins since March 2011; Vice President and General Auditor of Rockwell Collins from May 2008 to March 2011; Treasurer of Rockwell Collins prior thereto 46 RobertA. Sturgell Senior Vice President, Washington Operations since April 2009; Acting Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) prior thereto 53 There are no family relationships, as defined, between any of the above executive officers and any other executive officer or any director. No officer was selected pursuant to any arrangement or understanding between the officer and any person other than us. All executive officers are elected annually.
15 PART II Item 5.
Market for the Company's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Company Purchases of Equity Securities.
Market Information Our common stock, par value $.01 per share, is listed on the NewYork Stock Exchange and trades under the symbol COL. On October31, 2012, there were 20,984shareowners of record of our common stock.
The following table sets forth the high and low sales price of our common stock on the NewYork Stock ExchangeComposite Transactions reporting system during each quarter of our years ended September30, 2012 and 2011 : 2012 2011 Fiscal Quarters High Low High Low First $ 57.34 $ 50.04 $ 62.25 $ 54.10 Second 61.46 55.32 67.29 57.87 Third 58.94 46.78 65.20 58.57 Fourth 54.34 46.37 62.82 43.82 Dividends The following table sets forth the cash dividends per share paid by us during each quarter of our years ended September30, 2012 and 2011 : Fiscal Quarters 2012 2011 First $ 0.24 $ 0.24 Second 0.24 0.24 Third 0.30 0.24 Fourth 0.30 0.24 Based on our current dividend policy, we have been paying quarterly cash dividends which, on an annual basis, equal $1.20 per share. The declaration and payment of dividends, however, will be at the sole discretion of our Board of Directors.
Repurchases Our Board of Directors has authorized certain repurchases of our common stock. During 2012 , we repurchased approximately 13.3million shares of our common stock at a total cost of $723million, at a weighted average cost of $54.41 per share. During 2011 , we repurchased approximately 5.5million shares at a total cost of $322million, at a weighted average cost of $58.50 per share.
The following table provides information with respect to purchases made by or on behalf of us or any "affiliated purchaser" (as defined in Rule10b-18(a)(3) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) of shares of our common stock during the three months ended September30, 2012 : Period Total Number of Shares Purchased Average Price Paid per Share Total Number of Shares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Plans or Programs Maximum Number (or Approximate Dollar Value) of Shares that May Yet Be Purchased Under the Plans or Programs(1) July1, 2012 through July31, 2012  $   $ 502 million August1, 2012 through August31, 2012  $   $ 502 million September1, 2012 through September30, 2012 400,000 $ 53.24 400,000 $ 481 million Total/Average 400,000 $  400,000 (1) On July 23, 2012 our Board authorized the repurchase of an additional $500 million of our common stock, as reflected in the table above.  The authorization has no stated expiration.
16 Item 6.
Selected Financial Data.
The following selected financial data should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in Item8 below. The Statement of Operations, Statement of Financial Position and other data has been derived from our audited financial statements. Certain prior period information has been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation and to reflect the results of the divested Rollmet business as a discontinued operation.
Years Ended September30 2012(a) 2011(b) 2010(c) 2009(d) 2008(e) (dollars in millions, except per share amounts) Statement of Operations Data: Sales $ 4,726 $ 4,806 $ 4,631 $ 4,428 $ 4,734 Cost of sales 3,324 3,427 3,353 3,118 3,308 Selling, general and administrative expenses 543 533 476 457 484 Income from continuing operations 609 615 557 589 673 Income from discontinued operations, net of taxes  19 4 5 5 Net income 609 634 561 594 678 Net income as a percent of sales 12.9 % 13.2 % 12.1 % 13.4 % 14.3 % Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations 4.15 3.94 3.50 3.70 4.13 Statement of Financial Position Data: Working capital(f) $ 1,347 $ 1,394 $ 1,237 $ 1,003 $ 598 Property 773 754 707 719 680 Goodwill and intangible assets 1,071 1,088 1,072 964 807 Total assets 5,314 5,389 5,064 4,645 4,144 Short-term debt   24  287 Long-term debt 779 528 525 532 228 Shareowners' equity 1,259 1,523 1,482 1,292 1,408 Other Data: Capital expenditures $ 138 $ 152 $ 109 $ 153 $ 171 Depreciation and amortization 174 159 167 151 138 Dividends per share 1.08 0.96 0.96 0.96 0.80 Stock Price: High $ 61.46 $ 67.29 $ 68.04 $ 51.37 $ 76.00 Low 46.37 43.82 47.19 27.67 43.26 (a) Net income includes $38 million of net restructuring and asset impairment charges ($58 million before income taxes), primarily related to employee severance costs and certain customer bankruptcy charges.  Approximately $38 million of the pre-tax charge was recorded in cost of sales, $25 million was included within selling, general and administrative expenses, and $5 million was classified as a gain within Other income. Net income also includes a $19 million income tax benefit related to the favorable resolution of certain tax matters in 2012.
(b) Income from discontinued operations includes a $17 million gain ($27 million before income taxes) resulting from the sale of the Rollmet business.  In addition, income from continuing operations includes $17 million of restructuring and asset impairment charges ($27 million before income taxes) primarily related to real estate lease and contract termination charges, asset impairment charges and employee severance costs. $26 million of the pre-tax restructuring and asset impairment charge was recorded in cost of sales and the remaining $1 million was included in selling, general and administrative expenses.  Net income also includes a $16 million income tax benefit related to the retroactive reinstatement of the previously expired Federal Research and Development Tax Credit.
(c) Includes a $20million income tax benefit related to the favorable resolution of certain tax matters in 2010.
(d) Includes $21million of restructuring and asset impairment charges primarily related to reductions in workforce and decisions to implement certain facility rationalization actions ($14million after taxes). Of the total restructuring and asset impairment charge, $19million was recorded in cost of sales and the remaining $2million was included in selling, general and administrative expenses.
(e) Includes a $22million income tax benefit related to the favorable resolution of certain tax matters.
(f) Working capital consists of all current assets and liabilities, including cash and short-term debt.
17 Item 7.
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.
The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and notes thereto in Item 8 below. The following discussion and analysis contains forward-looking statements and estimates that involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results could differ materially from these estimates. Factors that could cause or contribute to differences from estimates include those discussed under " Cautionary Statement " and " Risk Factors " contained in Item1A above.
We operate on a 52/53 week fiscal year ending on the Friday closest to September30. For ease of presentation, September30 is utilized consistently throughout Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations to represent the fiscal year end date.
2012 , 2011 and 2010 were all 52week fiscal years. All date references contained herein relate to our fiscal year unless otherwise stated.
As discussed in Note 4 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements , the Rollmet product line, formerly included within the Commercial Systems segment, has been accounted for as a discontinued operation for all periods presented and therefore certain prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation. Unless otherwise noted, disclosures pertain to our continuing operations.
OVERVIEW AND OUTLOOK We have a diversified and balanced business, serving both government and commercial markets. Both of these businesses faced challenges during 2012. In Government Systems, a downturn in U.S. defense spending contributed to the eight percent reduction in sales. In Commercial Systems, we experienced strong growth in the air transport market, while sales to the business aviation market were impacted by the bankruptcy of one of our business jet manufacturing customers. The seven percent increase in Commercial Systems revenues during 2012 was not enough to offset the reduction in our defense business, as total Company sales declined two percent for the year. Despite the revenue decline, earnings per share from continuing operations increased five percent and both businesses improved segment operating margins over 2011, with Commercial Systems posting a 150 basis point increase from the prior year and Government Systems posting a 90 basis point increase from the prior year.
As part of our continued response to these challenges we recorded a restructuring charge to reduce our cost structure and position us for improved performance in 2013 and beyond. We also exercised the flexibility of our balance sheet during 2012 and issued $250 million of 3.10 percent fixed rate debt. We used the proceeds from this debt, supplemented by available cash on hand, to repurchase approximately 13 million shares of common stock during the year, reducing our outstanding share count by 7 percent from 2011. In addition, in April 2012 our Board of Directors approved a 25 percent increase to our quarterly cash dividend paid on common stock, raising the amount to $0.30 per share.
We generated the following results for 2012:  sales of $4.73billion  diluted earnings per share from continuing operations of $4.15  operating cash flow of $534million  capital expenditures of $138 million Looking forward to 2013, we anticipate the following:  total sales in the range of $4.6billion to $4.7billion  diluted earnings per share from continuing operations in the range of $4.30 to $4.50  cash provided by operating activities in the range of $500million to $600million  capital expenditures of about $140million 18 Our Company remains financially strong and looking out over the next three to five years, we believe we are well positioned to take advantage of improved market conditions when they arrive. In Government Systems, we expect U.S. military budgets to eventually stabilize and we continue to enhance our international strategies and adjust our infrastructure when necessary. In Commercial Systems, we have key positions on several air transport platforms with Boeing and Airbus and expect to benefit from strong order backlogs for these aircraft. In the business and regional jet market, we have expanded our market share over the past several years, winning positions on a variety of aircraft with customers around the globe, including Bombardier, Embraer and Gulfstream.
We believe our Company has a proven ability both to react quickly to changing business conditions and to execute its business plans. Our fundamental strategies continue to serve us well: the balance between our commercial and government businesses; the diversification of our customer base and product offerings; our focus on innovation through R&D; and the integration of our business through our shared service operating model.
Balance We feel our business is characterized by its balance, in terms of market segment, geographic regions and product and customer sales mix. We strive to maintain a balance between our Government and Commercial Systems businesses, believing that the segments are complementary to one another. Over the past three years, we have restored some of the balance between our business segments, as about 55 percent of our sales were attributable to the Government Systems business in 2012, compared to 62 percent in 2010. Looking forward to 2013, we expect this trend to continue as we anticipate Commercial Systems to account for nearly half of our revenues.
Diversification Our business derives its revenue streams from a large number of customers, products, solutions, geographic regions and markets. Our Government Systems business executes against numerous programs every year for a variety of customers, including the U.S. Department of Defense, state and local governments, other government agencies, civil agencies, defense contractors and foreign ministries of defense. Our Commercial Systems business serves customers ranging from the world's largest aircraft manufacturers and airlines to individual aircraft owners within the general aviation marketplace. This diversification of revenue sources enables us to pursue numerous growth opportunities as business conditions vary across our portfolios.
Innovation A well-funded and comprehensive R&D program is a foundational aspect of our Company. Our focus on developing unique solutions to address our customers' needs is evidenced by the large investment we dedicate towards R&D programs. This investment in R&D has allowed us to develop new systems, products and software solutions for our customers which will continue to be the growth engine for our Company.
Integration We have a highly integrated business reliant upon a shared service operating platform. Under our shared service operating model, certain functions and processes are utilized for the benefit of the entire organization. The integrated nature of our business also allows us to leverage product and service capabilities across our segments in a manner we believe is unique in our industry. This integration is evidenced by our product and technology centers of excellence in areas such as displays, communication, navigation and surveillance, through which we apply our core competencies to solutions in both Government and Commercial Systems. Our cost structure includes substantial investments in company-funded R&D expense, leased facility and equipment costs and other non-variable items such as depreciation and amortization of intangible assets. By applying common tools and systems across our businesses, we can better manage our fixed cost structure and maximize our R&D investments as technological advancements developed by one side of our business may be shared with the other.
One of the key metrics that we often use to describe changes in operating income for each segment is the incremental (or reduced) earnings derived from higher (or lower) sales volumes. Similarly, the variable gross margin derived from these incremental (or reduced) earnings is often used to describe changes in operating margins (computed as segment operating earnings as a percent of segment sales). By leveraging the fixed costs present in our shared service operating model, we typically can deliver higher earnings on incremental sales volumes as variable gross margins for our core products and services in Commercial Systems tend to be approximately 40 to 50 percent. Variable gross margins in our Government Systems business can often approximate those realized in Commercial Systems, as a significant portion of Government Systems revenues are derived from firm-fixed price contracts with commercial terms. The variable gross margin realized by Government Systems on cost-reimbursable contracts and early stage development programs, however, tends to be lower. We calculate our variable gross margin as segment sales less direct cost of sales, which includes direct materials, labor and applicable overhead allocations. Other components of cost of sales, such as company-funded R&D expense are excluded from variable gross margins. In this regard, variable gross margins are typically in excess of total segment operating margins, as total segment operating earnings contemplate all segment costs, including company-funded R&D expense and selling, general and administrative costs.
19 See the following sections for further discussion of 2012 and anticipated 2013 results of operations. For additional disclosure on segment operating earnings see Note24 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item8 below. Please also see our Risk Factors and Cautionary Statement in Item1A of this Form10-K.
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following management discussion and analysis of results of operations is based on reported financial results for 2010 through 2012 and should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto in Item8 below.
As discussed in Note 4 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements , the Rollmet product line, formerly included within the Commercial Systems segment, has been accounted for as a discontinued operation for all periods presented and certain prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation. Unless otherwise noted, disclosures pertain to our continuing operations.
Consolidated Financial Results Sales (in millions) 2012 2011 2010 U.S.
$ 3,169 $ 3,356 $ 3,284 Non-U.S.(1) 1,557 1,450 1,347 Total $ 4,726 $ 4,806 $ 4,631 Percent increase (decrease) (2 )% 4 % (1) Sales are attributed to geographic region based on the location of our customers.
Sales for 2012 compared to 2011 Total sales decreased $80 million , or 2 percent , primarily due to a $222 million reduction in Government Systems sales, partially offset by a $142million increase in Commercial Systems sales. Refer to a detailed discussion of sales by segment in 2012 and 2011 in the Government Systems and Commercial Systems Financial Results sections below.
Domestic sales decreased $187 million , or 6 percent , primarily due to lower sales to the U.S. Government resulting from the adverse market conditions described in the Government Systems sales section below, and a reduction in sales to a domestic business jet manufacturer, Hawker Beechcraft, who declared bankruptcy in 2012. This reduction was partially offset by higher sales to Boeing across various platforms and increased sales of aftermarket products and services to commercial airlines and other domestic customers, as discussed in the Commercial Systems sales section below.
Non-U.S. sales increased by $107 million , or 7 percent , as sales to non-U.S. aircraft manufacturers like Airbus and Bombardier increased and aftermarket revenues to commercial customers outside the U.S. were higher. This increase was partially offset by a reduction in Government Systems sales resulting from lower sales to foreign ministries of defense.
Sales for 2011 compared to 2010 Total sales increased $175 million , or 4 percent , primarily due to a $223million increase in Commercial Systems sales partially offset by a $48million reduction in Government Systems sales. Incremental sales from acquisitions, principally the December 2009 acquisition of ARGroup, Inc. (Air Routing), contributed $15 million, or less than 1 percentage point of revenue growth. A more detailed discussion of sales by segment in 2011 and 2010 is found in the Government Systems and Commercial Systems Financial Results sections below.
Domestic sales increased $72 million , or 2 percent , primarily attributable to higher Commercial Systems sales to Boeing and increased sales of our aftermarket products and services to commercial airlines and other domestic customers, including incremental service sales from the Air Routing acquisition, partially offset by lower sales to the U.S. Government resulting from the adverse market conditions described in the Government Systems sales section below.
20 Non-U.S. sales increased by $103 million , or 8 percent , primarily due to the combined impact of higher Commercial Systems sales to non-U.S. business original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) such as Bombardier and increased aftermarket revenues to commercial customers outside the U.S.
Cost of Sales (in millions) 2012 2011 2010 Total cost of sales $ 3,324 $ 3,427 $ 3,353 Percent of total sales 70.3 % 71.3 % 72.4 % Cost of sales consists of all costs incurred to design and manufacture our products and includes R&D, raw material, labor, facility, product warranty, depreciation, amortization and other related expenses.
Cost of sales for 2012 compared to 2011 Total cost of sales decreased $103 million , or 3 percent , primarily due to the following:  $44 million decrease in cost of sales resulting from the $80 million reduction in sales volume, as discussed in the Government Systems and Commercial Systems Financial Results sections below  $56 million reduction from lower employee incentive compensation costs  $35 million reduction in company-funded R&D expense, as explained below  above items were partially offset by  $12 million increase from higher restructuring and asset impairment charges recorded in 2012 as compared to 2011. For 2012, $38 million of restructuring and asset impairment charges were classified within cost of sales, compared to $26 million in 2011, as discussed in Note 23 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  $20 million increase primarily attributable to the $11 million increase in warranty cost detailed in Note 19 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and higher retirement benefit expenses, as described in the Retirement Plans section below The decrease in cost of sales as a percent of revenues was primarily attributable to the lower employee incentive compensation costs and reduction in company-funded R&D expense.
Cost of sales for 2011 compared to 2010 Total cost of sales increased $74 million , or 2 percent , primarily due to the following:  $59 million increase resulted from the $175 million of net sales growth discussed in the Commercial Systems and Government Systems Financial Results sections below  $27million increase was attributable to higher employee incentive compensation expenses  $26 million increase resulted from the restructuring and asset impairment charges recorded in 2011 which were classified within cost of sales, as discussed in Note 23 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  above items were partially offset by a $31 million reduction to cost of sales attributable to lower defined benefit pension expense, as discussed in the Retirement Plans section below The decrease in cost of sales as a percent of revenues was primarily due to a favorable change in sales mix resulting from higher Commercial Systems sales and lower Government Systems revenue.
21 Research and development expense R&D expense is included as a component of cost of sales and is summarized as follows: (in millions) 2012 2011 2010 Customer-funded: Government Systems $ 420 $ 460 $ 437 Commercial Systems 83 90 79 Total customer-funded 503 550 516 Company-funded: Government Systems 82 116 115 Commercial Systems 238 239 230 Total company-funded 320 355 345 Total research and development expense $ 823 $ 905 $ 861 Percent of total sales 17.4 % 18.8 % 18.6 % We make significant investments in research and development to allow our customers to benefit from the latest technological advancements. Total research and development expense is comprised of both company-funded and customer-funded R&D expenditures. Customer-funded R&D expenditures are incurred pursuant to contractual arrangements and are typically accounted for as contract costs within cost of sales with the reimbursement accounted for as a sale in accordance with the percentage-of-completion method of accounting. Company-funded R&D expenditures relate to the development of new products and the improvement of existing products and are expensed as incurred, as disclosed in Note 14 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements . Company-funded R&D expense consists primarily of payroll-related expenses of employees engaged in R&D activities, engineering-related product materials and equipment and subcontracting costs.
In addition to the R&D expenditures shown in the table above, we defer the cost of certain pre-production engineering effort incurred during the development phase of programs when the customer has provided us a long-term supply arrangement and a contractual guarantee for reimbursement. Refer to the Research and Development section found in Item 1 and the Critical Accounting Policies section found in Item 7 below for further discussion of our incremental investments in pre-production engineering effort.
Total R&D expense decreased $82 million from 2011 to 2012 . The customer-funded portion of R&D expense decreased $47 million from 2011 to 2012. Government Systems accounted for $40million of this decrease, as certain development programs were terminated for convenience by the U.S. Government and spending on other programs slowed during a transition out of the development phase into production. The $35 million decrease in company-funded R&D was also driven by Government Systems and was attributable to the completion of development effort for networked communication, airborne communication and navigation products, as well as savings realized from our previously announced decision to cease further discretionary investments in the public safety vehicle product line.
Total R&D expense increased $44 million from 2010 to 2011 . The customer-funded portion of R&D expense increased $34 million from 2010 to 2011, primarily due to a $23million increase within Government Systems that was largely attributable to effort on new development programs such as the KC-46A Tanker, E-6 special mission aircraft and the Common Range Integrated Instrumentation System (CRIIS) programs. An additional $11 million increase resulted from Commercial Systems, driven by increased effort on various business and regional jet platforms. The $10 million increase in company-funded R&D was primarily within Commercial Systems and was largely driven by increased effort towards development of next generation avionics for business aircraft and incremental effort related to our content on the Boeing 747-8 aircraft.
Looking forward to 2013 , total R&D expense is expected to be approximately $800million. We expect a reduction in customer-funded R&D expense, primarily within Government Systems, and anticipate company-funded R&D expenditures to be relatively flat when compared to 2012. In addition, we expect a $210 million net increase in pre-production engineering costs during 2013. Refer to additional discussion of pre-production engineering costs in the Critical Accounting Policies section found in Item 7 below.
22 Selling, General and Administrative Expenses (in millions) 2012 2011 2010 Selling, general and administrative expenses $ 543 $ 533 $ 476 Percent of total sales 11.5 % 11.1 % 10.3 % Selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses consist primarily of personnel, facility and other expenses related to employees not directly engaged in manufacturing or R&D activities. These activities include marketing and business development, finance, legal, information technology and other administrative and management functions.
Total SG&A expenses increased $10 million , or 2 percent , in 2012 compared to 2011 , primarily due to the following:  $29 million due to higher bad debt expense resulting from the customer bankruptcies described in Note 5 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  partially offset by a $19 million reduction from lower employee incentive compensation and other savings attributable to headcount reduction and restructuring actions Total SG&A expenses increased $57 million , or 12 percent , in 2011 compared to 2010 , primarily due to the following:  $29million from higher employee incentive compensation costs and merit pay increases  $18 million increase resulting from the combined impact of pursuing international business opportunities (including the opening and staffing of new offices internationally), higher bid and proposal costs and an increase in other selling costs and activities  $3 million of incremental SG&A expense from acquisitions, primarily Air Routing Interest Expense (in millions) 2012 2011 2010 Interest expense $ 27 $ 19 $ 20 Interest expense increased by $8 million in 2012 compared to 2011 , primarily due to additional interest expense associated with the $250million of long-term debt issued in November of 2011. See Note10 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item8 below for more detail regarding outstanding debt.
Other Income, Net (in millions) 2012 2011 2010 Other income, net $ (25 ) $ (28 ) $ (14 ) For additional information regarding the fluctuations in Other income, net, see Note15 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item8 below.
Income Tax Expense from Continuing Operations (in millions) 2012 2011 2010 Income tax expense $ 248 $ 240 $ 239 Effective income tax rate 28.9 % 28.1 % 30.0 % 23 The effective income tax rate differed from the U.S. statutory tax rate as detailed below: 2012 2011 2010 Statutory tax rate 35.0 % 35.0 % 35.0 % State and local income taxes 1.3 1.1 0.8 Research and development credit (1.7 ) (4.7 ) (1.2 ) Domestic manufacturing deduction (2.1 ) (1.9 ) (1.1 ) Tax settlements (2.2 ) (0.4 ) (2.4 ) Other (1.4 ) (1.0 ) (1.1 ) Effective income tax rate 28.9 % 28.1 % 30.0 % The difference between our effective income tax rate in 2012 and the statutory tax rate is primarily due to the benefit from the settlement of certain tax matters, the tax benefits derived from the Federal Research and Development Tax Credit (Federal R&D Tax Credit), which provides a tax benefit on certain incremental R&D expenditures, and the Domestic Manufacturing Deduction under Section199 (DMD), which provides a tax benefit on U.S.-based manufacturing.
The effective income tax rate in 2012 increased from 2011 primarily due to the differences in the availability of the Federal R&D Tax Credit which expired December 31, 2011. This increase was partially offset by the favorable impact in 2012 of the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) completing its examination of the taxable years ended September 30, 2008 and 2009.
The effective income tax rate in 2011 decreased from 2010 primarily due to the retroactive reinstatement of the Federal R&D Tax Credit which had previously expired on December 31, 2009. On December 17, 2010, the Tax Relief, Unemployment Insurance Reauthorization and Job Creation Act of 2010 was enacted which reinstated and extended the Federal R&D Tax Credit from January 1, 2010 to December 31, 2011 and reduced our 2011 effective income tax rate by about 2 percent.
The effective income tax rates for 2012 , 2011 and 2010 include a tax benefit related to the DMD. The DMD tax benefit available in 2010 was being phased in by statute and was therefore lower than the full DMD tax benefit which became effective beginning in fiscal year 2011.
Net Income and Diluted Earnings Per Share (in millions, except per share amounts) 2012 2011 2010 Income from continuing operations $ 609 $ 615 $ 557 Percent of sales 12.9 % 12.8 % 12.0 % Income from discontinued operations, net of taxes  19 4 Net income $ 609 $ 634 $ 561 Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations $ 4.15 $ 3.94 $ 3.50 Diluted earnings per share from discontinued operations  0.12 0.02 Diluted earnings per share $ 4.15 $ 4.06 $ 3.52 Weighted average diluted common shares 146.8 156.1 159.2 Net income for 2012 decreased 4 percent to $609 million from net income of $634 million for 2011 . Diluted earnings per share increased 2 percent to $4.15 for 2012 compared to $4.06 for 2011 . The rate of increase in diluted earnings per share benefited from the positive impact of our share repurchase program.
Net income and earnings per share for 2012 includes a $38 million charge, or $0.26 per share, attributable to the net restructuring and asset impairment charges described in Note 23 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements . Net income and earnings per share for 2011 includes a $17 million gain ($0.11 per share) from the divestiture of the Rollmet product line and also includes an offsetting charge of $17 million ($0.11 per share) related to restructuring actions.
24 Net income and earnings per share for 2012 benefited from higher earnings in Commercial Systems as discussed in the Commercial Systems Financial Results section below. This benefit was partially offset by higher income tax expense, as explained in the Income Tax section above, and the reduction in Government Systems segment earnings described in the Government Systems Financial Results section below.
Net income for 2011 increased 13 percent to $634 million from net income of $561 million for 2010 . Diluted earnings per share increased 15 percent to $4.06 for 2011 compared to $3.52 for 2010 . Net income and earnings per share for 2011 includes a $17 million gain ($0.11 per share) from the divestiture of the Rollmet product line and also includes an offsetting charge of $17 million ($0.11 per share) related to certain restructuring and asset impairment charges discussed in Note 23 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements . The increase in net income and diluted earnings per share was primarily the result of higher earnings from Commercial Systems as discussed in the Commercial Systems Financial Results section below, partially offset by a reduction in Government Systems earnings as discussed in the Government Systems Financial Results section below. The impact of the 2011 restructuring and asset impairment charge was included in income from continuing operations while the gain on sale of the divested Rollmet product line was included in discontinued operations. The increase in diluted earnings per share was greater than the increase in net income due to the positive impact of our share repurchase program.
Segment Financial Results Government Systems Overview and Outlook Our Government Systems business provides avionics, communication products, surface solutions and navigation products to the U.S. Department of Defense, other ministries of defense, other government agencies and defense contractors around the world. These systems, products and services support airborne (fixed and rotary wing), ground and shipboard applications. The short and long-term performance of our Government Systems business is affected by a number of factors, including the amount and prioritization of defense spending by the U.S. and non-U.S. governments, which is generally based on the security environment and underlying political landscape resulting from budget deficits.
In August 2011, Congress enacted the Budget Control Act of 2011 which imposes spending caps and certain reductions in security spending over a ten-year period through 2021. Absent additional Congressional action, further budget cuts (or sequestration) as outlined in the Budget Act will be implemented on January 3, 2013. If the sequestration process is implemented in January 2013 as currently mandated, there could be a significant adverse impact to our Company and to the defense industry in general.
Further, in years when the U.S. Government does not complete its budget process before the end of its fiscal year (September 30), government operations typically are funded through a continuing resolution that authorizes agencies of the U.S. Government to continue to operate, but does not authorize new spending initiatives. During periods covered by continuing resolutions (or until the regular appropriation bills are passed), we may experience delays in procurement of products and services which can adversely impact our results of operations and cause variability in the timing of revenue between periods.
Our fiscal year 2013 guidance for Government Systems incorporates the anticipated impact of sequestration. We expect Government Systems revenues to decrease by approximately 10 percent in 2013 as compared to 2012, with about half of the year-over-year decline resulting from the impact of sequestration. The remaining expected net decline is primarily driven by:  approximately $100 million reduction resulting from programs transitioning out of the development phase, with full scale production not expected to occur until after 2013  lower product deliveries of our Defense Advanced GPS Receivers and satellite communication terminals  delays in the Eurofighter Tranche III and reductions from lower sales of joint helmet mounted cueing systems for military fixed wing aircraft  items above are expected to be partially offset by increased deliveries of Joint Tactical Radio System Manpack radios and Firestorm targeting systems and higher sales on tanker/transport aircraft platforms We project Government Systems 2013 segment operating margins to be approximately 21percent, as the benefits from restructuring actions and other cost reduction initiatives should mostly offset the adverse impact from lower revenue.
25 Risks affecting future performance of our Government Systems business include:  overall funding and prioritization of the U.S. and non-U.S. defense budgets, including unanticipated impacts of sequestration and other provisions of the Budget Control Act of 2011 that are set to be implemented in January 2013  delayed, reduced or canceled funding for programs we have won  potential impact of geopolitical and economic events  our ability to execute to our internal performance plans and cost reduction initiatives  our ability to win new business, successfully develop products and execute on programs pursuant to contractual requirements For additional disclosure on Government Systems segment results see Note24 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item8 below.
Government Systems Sales The following table presents Government Systems sales by product category: (in millions) 2012 2011 2010 Avionics $ 1,476 $ 1,434 $ 1,389 Communication products 652 698 749 Surface solutions 226 377 408 Navigation products 237 304 315 Total $ 2,591 $ 2,813 $ 2,861 Percent (decrease) (8 )% (2 )% Beginning in 2011, we began presenting sales for Government Systems based upon differences in the underlying product technologies and markets served. Government Systems sales for the year ended September 30, 2010 have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation.
Government Systems Sales for 2012 compared to 2011 Avionics sales increased $42 million , or 3 percent , primarily due to the following:  $80 million increase resulting from the combined impact of development effort on the KC-46A, KC-10 and KC-390 tanker programs  $49 million increase in sales on the Saudi F-15 fighter program  partially offset by reductions to revenue of $87 million, primarily attributable to decreased sales for the KC-135 Global Air Traffic Management program and lower deliveries on C-17 transport, CH-53 rotary wing and P-3 special mission aircraft Communication products sales decreased $46 million , or 7 percent , primarily due to the following:  $21 million reduction due to the completion of a program to provide transportable cellular capabilities in Afghanistan  $21 million decrease resulting from the combined impact of a program termination for Ground Mobile Radios and reduced funding authorizations on the U.S. Department of Defense FAB-T (Family of Advanced Beyond Line-of Sight terminals) initiative 26 Surface solutions sales decreased $151 million , or 40 percent , primarily due to the following:  $52 million reduction attributable to the combined impact of two programs that were terminated for convenience by the U.S. Government during 2011  $52 million decrease resulting from the combined impact of fewer deliveries of iForce public safety vehicle systems as we exited this product line and a reduction in Joint Precision Approach and Landing System program revenues as it transitions from development into production  remaining decrease of $47 million was due to a variety of items, including fewer deliveries of soldier optronics products and a decline in electronic warfare solution program revenues Navigation products sales decreased $67 million , or 22 percent , primarily due to an $81 million reduction in revenue from fewer deliveries of our Defense Advanced GPS Receiver products as troop deployments wind down in Afghanistan and Iraq.
Government Systems Sales for 2011 compared to 2010 Avionics sales increased $45 million , or 3 percent , primarily due to the following:  $69 million increase resulting from the combined impact of low-rate initial production sales on an E-6 special mission aircraft program and development effort on the recently awarded KC-46A Tanker program  $43 million increase from higher rotary wing avionics sales on various platforms  above items were partially offset by a $66 million reduction in sales from the completion of the KC-135 Global Air Traffic Management program Communication products sales decreased $51 million , or 7 percent , primarily due to a $60 million net reduction in satellite communication program revenues, driven by the combined impact of a recently completed upgrade program and the adverse impact of delayed funding authorizations from the U.S. Government.
Surface solutions sales decreased $31 million , or 8 percent , primarily due to the following:  $63 million reduction attributable to the combined impact of two programs that were terminated for convenience by the U.S. Government and lower sales of soldier system optronics products that were adversely impacted by delayed funding authorizations from the U.S. Government  $13 million decrease resulting from lower deliveries of iForce public safety vehicle systems  above items were partially offset by $48 million of increased development revenues for the Common Range Integrated Instrumentation System program Navigation products sales decreased $11 million , or 3 percent , primarily due to lower sales of GPS-based products.
Government Systems Segment Operating Earnings (in millions) 2012 2011 2010 Segment operating earnings $ 568 $ 592 $ 606 Percent of sales 21.9 % 21.0 % 21.2 % 27 Government Systems Operating Earnings for 2012 compared to 2011 Government Systems operating earnings were $568 million , or 21.9 percent of sales, for 2012 compared to operating earnings of $592 million , or 21.0 percent of sales, for 2011. The $24 million decrease in Government Systems operating earnings was primarily due to the following:  $222 million reduction in sales discussed in the Government Systems sales section above resulted in a $137 million decrease to costs and a reduction to earnings of $85 million. The variable gross margin of 38 percent reflects the absence of higher margin hardware sales for Navigation products that occurred last year  partially offset by a $34 million benefit to operating earnings resulting from lower company-funded R&D expense, as explained in the Cost of Sales section above  remaining variance of $27 million was primarily attributable to a benefit from lower employee headcount and incentive compensation costs, partially offset by higher warranty expense and an increase in employee medical and retirement benefit costs, as explained in the Cost of Sales section above The increase in Government Systems operating earnings as a percent of sales was driven by the decline in company-funded R&D expense and lower employee incentive compensation costs, partially offset by the adverse impact of lower sales.
Government Systems Operating Earnings for 2011 compared to 2010 Government Systems operating earnings were $592 million , or 21.0 percent of sales, for 2011 compared to operating earnings of $606 million , or 21.2 percent of sales, for 2010. The $14 million decrease in Government Systems operating earnings was primarily due to the following:  $18 million reduction attributable to an increase in selling, general and administrative expenses driven by higher employee incentive compensation costs and merit pay increases as discussed in the SG&A section above  $48million reduction in sales volume discussed in the Government Systems Sales section above resulted in a $31million reduction to costs and lower operating earnings of $17million, at a variable gross margin of 35 percent  above items were partially offset by a $21million net benefit to operating earnings resulting from the combined impact of lower pension costs, as discussed in the Retirement Plans section below, and a $7 million reduction in warranty expenses primarily attributable to a favorable adjustment recorded in 2011 to reduce warranty reserves Government Systems operating earnings as a percent of sales were relatively flat from 2010 to 2011.
Commercial Systems Overview and Outlook Our Commercial Systems business supplies aviation electronics systems, products and services to customers located throughout the world. The customer base is comprised of OEMsof commercial air transport, business and regional aircraft, commercial airlines and business aircraft operators. The near and long-term performance of our Commercial Systems business is impacted by general worldwide economic health, commercial airline flight hours, corporate profits and the financial condition of airlines worldwide.
We expect Commercial Systems sales to increase by about 7 percent in 2013 compared to 2012, primarily due to the following:  sales to aircraft OEMs are expected to increase by high single digits across both the air transport and business and regional markets. Sales to air transport aircraft OEMs should benefit from anticipated production rate increases for the Boeing 787 aircraft and other legacy Boeing and Airbus aircraft. Business and regional jet OEM sales should also improve as the result of modest production rate increases across most OEM customers  aftermarket sales for 2013 are expected to increase by low double-digits. The sales increase is expected to be driven by initial revenue from airspace mandates, business jet cockpit upgrades and higher service and support revenue across both market segments 28  partially offset by an expected decrease of approximately 15 percent in sales of wide-body in-flight entertainment (IFE) products and services due to our decision in 2005 to cease investing in this product area. Wide-body IFE relates to sales of twin-aisle IFE products and systems to customers in the air transport market and also includes related revenue from wide-body service and support activities We expect the majority of the anticipated sales growth for Commercial Systems to occur in the second half of fiscal year 2013. This is primarily driven by year over year comparability issues with the timing of spares revenues on Boeing 787 aircraft, the lack of Hawker Beechcraft jet deliveries in 2013 and a concentration of anticipated mandate and retrofit activity towards the latter part of our fiscal 2013.
We project Commercial Systems 2013 operating margins will expand by approximately 200 basis points above the 20.6 percent reported in 2012, driven primarily by the anticipated revenue increase.
Risks to the Commercial Systems business include:  turbulence in global economic and financial markets could have a significant impact on demand for air travel, airline demand for new aircraft and the availability of financing for new aircraft  occurrence of an unexpected geopolitical event, including terrorism or a pandemic, that could have a significant impact on demand for air travel and airline demand for new aircraft  potential negative impact that fuel prices could have on the profitability of airline and other aircraft operator customers  our ability to develop products and execute on programs pursuant to contractual requirements  development and market segment acceptance of our products and systems  potential adverse impact from delays or reductions in OEM aircraft production, including delays in the entry into service date for new aircraft For additional disclosure on Commercial Systems segment results see Note24 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item8 below.
Commercial Systems Sales The following table presents Commercial Systems sales by product category and type of product or service: (in millions) 2012 2011 2010 Air transport aviation electronics: Original equipment $ 574 $ 499 $ 439 Aftermarket 474 431 380 Wide-body in-flight entertainment 91 119 145 Total air transport aviation electronics 1,139 1,049 964 Business and regional aviation electronics: Original equipment 582 557 466 Aftermarket 414 387 340 Total business and regional aviation electronics 996 944 806 Total $ 2,135 $ 1,993 $ 1,770 Percent increase 7 % 13 % 29 Commercial Systems Sales for 2012 compared to 2011 Total air transport aviation electronics sales increased $90 million , or 9 percent , primarily due to the following:  air transport OEM sales increased $75 million , or 15 percent , driven primarily by higher sales to Boeing and Airbus as they increased aircraft production rates across various platforms, including the Boeing 787 and 737 aircraft and the Airbus A320  air transport aftermarket sales increased $43 million , or 10 percent . The increase was driven by higher spares revenues of $19 million, primarily for new Boeing 787 and 747-8 aircraft, and a $22 million increase in retrofit and service and support activities  Wide-body IFE sales decreased $28 million , or 24 percent , due to the Company's strategic decision announced in 2005 to cease investment in this product area Total business and regional aviation electronics sales increased $52 million , or 6 percent , primarily due to the following:  business and regional OEM sales increased $25 million, or 4 percent, primarily related to a $62 million increase in product deliveries for Bombardier Global, Cessna Citation and Gulfstream aircraft. This was partially offset by net reductions of $37 million, including a $27 million reduction in sales to Hawker Beechcraft who filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection in May 2012, and lower sales to regional jet aircraft manufacturers as production rates declined for certain aircraft  business and regional aftermarket sales increased $27million, or 7percent, driven by the combined impact of higher retrofit and service and support activities. Retrofit sales increased as customers upgraded aircraft systems in order to gain operational efficiencies, improve performance and modernize the cabin Commercial Systems Sales for 2011 compared to 2010 Total air transport aviation electronics sales increased $85 million , or 9 percent , primarily due to the following:  air transport OEM sales increased $60 million , or 14 percent , primarily from higher product deliveries to Boeing  across multiple platforms, including Boeing 787 aircraft, and increased development effort on avionics packages for the new Commercial Aircraft Corporation of China, Ltd. (COMAC) C919 narrowbody aircraft  air transport aftermarket sales increased $51 million , or 13 percent , primarily related to a $27 million increase in service and support sales and higher aftermarket hardware revenues of $24 million, driven by initial deliveries of spares for Boeing 747-8 aircraft and higher spare part sales to various airline customers as they restocked their inventories  Wide-body IFE sales decreased $26 million , or 18 percent , due to the Company's strategic decision announced in 2005 to cease investment in this product area Total business and regional aviation electronics sales increased $138 million, or 17 percent, primarily due to the following:  business and regional OEM sales increased $91 million, or 20 percent, primarily due to $64 million of higher sales to Bombardier for Bombardier Global and Challenger 300 aircraft and $14 million of higher avionics sales to Cessna resulting from our new position on the CJ-4 aircraft  business and regional aftermarket sales increased $47 million, or 14 percent. Service and support revenues accounted for $17 million of the increase, driven by improved aircraft utilization. Higher spare parts revenues and increased sales of equipment for simulators primarily contributed an additional $18 million. The remaining increase of $12 million was primarily related to incremental sales from Air Routing and CTA acquisitions 30 Commercial Systems Segment Operating Earnings (in millions) 2012 2011 2010 Segment operating earnings $ 440 $ 381 $ 287 Percent of sales 20.6 % 19.1 % 16.2 % Commercial Systems Operating Earnings for 2012 compared to 2011 Commercial Systems operating earnings increased $59 million , or 15 percent , primarily due to the following:  incremental earnings from higher sales volume totaled $61 million, at a variable gross margin of 43 percent, which reflects the impact of lower margins on our Boeing 787 program revenues  partially offset by a $10 million reduction to operating earnings due to the absence of favorable adjustments recorded in the prior year to reduce certain customer incentive reserves  remaining variance of $8 million is primarily comprised of a net benefit from lower employee incentive compensation costs, partially offset by a $5 million bad debt charge recorded in the third quarter of fiscal year 2012 and higher warranty, employee medical and retirement benefit costs, as explained in the Cost of Sales section above The increase in Commercial Systems operating earnings as a percent of sales was primarily due to the incremental earnings from higher sales volume.
Commercial Systems Operating Earnings for 2011 compared to 2010 Commercial Systems operating earnings increased $94 million , or 33 percent , primarily due to the following:  $223 million sales increase discussed in the Commercial Systems sales section above resulted in a $109 million increase in costs and incremental operating earnings of $114 million, at a variable gross margin of 51 percent  $18 million benefit to operating earnings related to a change in estimate recorded in 2011 to reduce the provision for certain customer incentives  above items were partially offset by a $29 million reduction to operating earnings attributable to an increase in selling, general and administrative expenses as discussed in the SG&A section above  additional $9 million reduction to operating earnings resulted from higher company-funded R&D expense, as explained in the Cost of Sales section above The increase in Commercial Systems operating earnings as a percent of sales was primarily due to the incremental earnings from higher sales and the favorable impact of the adjustment to customer incentive reserves, partially offset by higher SG&A and company-funded R&D expenses.
General Corporate, Net General corporate expenses that are not allocated to our business segments are included in General corporate, net. These costs are included within Cost of sales, SG&A and Other Income, net on the Consolidated Statement of Operations. General corporate, net is summarized as follows: (in millions) 2012 2011 2010 General corporate, net $ 42 $ 48 $ 54 General corporate, net expense decreased $6 million during 2012 as compared to 2011 primarily due to a reduction in employee incentive compensation costs, as discussed in the SG&A section above.
31 General corporate, net expense decreased $6 million during 2011 as compared to 2010 primarily due to a $13million decrease in defined benefit pension expense that is described in the Retirement Plans section below, partially offset by a $7 million increase in certain SG&A costs, including employee incentive compensation, as discussed in the SG&A section above.
Retirement Plans Net benefit expense (income) for pension benefits and other retirement benefits are as follows: (in millions) 2012 2011 2010 Pension benefits $ (13 ) $ (16 ) $ 26 Other retirement benefits 18 10 5 Net benefit expense (income) $ 5 $ (6 ) $ 31 Pension Benefits In 2003, we amended our U.S. qualified and non-qualified pension plans covering all salary and hourly employees not covered by collective bargaining agreements to discontinue benefit accruals for salary increases and services rendered after September30, 2006. Concurrently, we replaced this benefit by supplementing our existing defined contribution savings plan to include an additional Company contribution effective October1, 2006. The supplemental contribution to our existing defined contribution savings plan was $41 million , $39 million and $34 million for 2012 , 2011 and 2010 , respectively.
Defined benefit pension expense (income) for the years ended September30, 2012 , 2011 and 2010 was $(13) million , $(16) million and $26 million , respectively. Pension costs did not change significantly in 2012 compared to 2011 . The lower pension expense in 2011 compared to 2010 was primarily due to the change in amortization period of actuarial gains and losses. In 2010, we amortized actuarial gains and losses over the average remaining service period of active participants, or about 11 years. Beginning in 2011, the amortization of such amounts changed to over the expected future life expectancy of inactive participants, or about 28 years. This change in amortization period was attributable to the fact that almost all of the plan's participants are now considered inactive due to the discontinuance of benefit accruals for most employees, as described above.
During 2012 , the funded status of our pension plans went from a deficit of $1,407 million at September30, 2011 to a deficit of $1,466 million at September30, 2012 . This was primarily due to the adverse impact of a decrease in the discount rate used to measure our U.S. pension obligations from 4.43 percent at September 30, 2011 to 3.56 percent at September 30, 2012, partially offset by an increase in plan assets driven by improved market returns in 2012. During 2011 , the funded status of our pension plans went from a deficit of $1,185 million at September30, 2010 to a deficit of $1,407million at September30, 2011 , primarily due to a decrease in the discount rate used to measure our U.S. pension obligations from 4.85percent at September30, 2010 to 4.43percent at September30, 2011. In addition, the funded status was adversely impacted by a reduction in plan assets during 2011.
We expect defined benefit pension expense of $7million in 2013 , compared to $13 million of pension income in 2012 . The expected $20million increase in pension costs from 2012 to 2013 is primarily due to a decrease in our expected long-term return on plan assets assumption, from 8.75 percent in 2012 to 8.25 percent in 2013. The higher anticipated pension cost for 2013 is also adversely impacted by an increase in the amortization of net actuarial losses, which are the result of declining discount rates over the past few years.
Our objective with respect to the funding of our pension plans is to provide adequate assets for the payment of future benefits. Pursuant to this objective, we will fund our pension plans as required by governmental regulations and may consider discretionary contributions as conditions warrant. We believe our strong financial position continues to provide us the opportunity to make contributions to our pension fund without inhibiting our ability to pursue strategic investments.
In October 2012, subsequent to our 2012 year end, we made a $55 million contribution to our U.S. qualified pension plan. We plan to contribute an additional $55 million in 2013 for a total $110 million contribution, which we anticipate will fully satisfy the minimum statutory funding requirements for 2013. Any additional future contributions necessary to satisfy the minimum statutory funding requirements are dependent upon actual plan asset returns and interest rates. We may elect to make additional discretionary contributions during 2013 to further improve the funded status of this plan. Contributions to our non-U.S. plans and our U.S. non-qualified plan are expected to total $14 million in 2013.
32 Other Retirement Benefits We have historically provided retiree medical and life insurance benefits to substantially all of our employees. We have undertaken two major actions over the past several years with respect to these benefits that have lowered both the current and future costs of providing these benefits:  in July of 2002, the pre-65 and post-65 retiree medical plans were amended to discontinue benefits for employees hired after September 30, 2006 and establish a fixed Company contribution. Additional premium contributions will be required from participants for all costs in excess of this fixed contribution amount. This amendment eliminated the risk to us related to health care cost escalations for retiree medical benefits going forward as additional contributions will be required from retirees for all costs in excess of our fixed contribution amount  as a result of the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003, we amended our retiree medical plans on June30, 2004 to discontinue post-65 prescription drug coverage effective January1, 2008. Post-65 retirees have the option of receiving these benefits through Medicare. We believe the Medicare prescription drug benefit is generally better than the benefit that was provided by our discontinued post-65 drug plan Other retirement benefits expense for the years ended September30, 2012 , 2011 and 2010 was $18 million , $10 million and $5 million , respectively. We expect other retirement benefits expense of approximately $15million in 2013 .
FINANCIAL CONDITION AND LIQUIDITY Cash Flow Summary Our ability to generate significant cash flow from operating activities coupled with our expected ability to access the credit markets enables us to execute our growth strategies and return value to our shareowners. The timing of our cash inflows is historically heavily weighted towards the second half of our fiscal year, particularly to our fourth quarter. We expect this trend to continue in the future.
During 2012, we exercised the flexibility of our balance sheet and issued $250 million of 3.10 percent fixed rate unsecured debt. We used the proceeds from this debt, supplemented by available cash on hand, to make significant cash expenditures aimed at future growth and enhanced shareowner value, as shown below:  $714 million of cash payments for share repurchases  $138 million of capital expenditures  $157million of dividend payments In addition, we also made $126 million of pension plan contributions.
Operating Activities (in millions) 2012 2011 2010 Cash provided by operating activities $ 534 $ 657 $ 711 The $123 million decrease in cash provided by operating activities in 2012 compared to 2011 was primarily due to the following:  cash receipts from customers decreased by $114million to $4,685million in 2012 compared to $4,799million in 2011, primarily due to the lower sales volume in 2012 as discussed in the Results of Operations section above and lower collections of receivables from customers, partially offset by higher progress payments received in advance of revenue recognition  payments for income taxes increased $112 million to $208 million in 2012 compared to $96million in 2011 due to the differences in the timing of cash tax payments resulting from the retroactive extension of the Federal R&D tax credit 33 that benefited the prior year and the expiration of the Federal R&D tax credit that increased cash payments in the current year  payments for employee incentive pay increased $62 million. Incentive pay is expensed in the year it is incurred and paid in the first fiscal quarter of the following year. During 2012, $133million was paid for employee incentive pay costs incurred during 2011 as compared to $71 million paid in 2011 for employee incentive pay costs incurred during 2010  above items were partially offset by a decrease in payments for inventory and other operating costs of $206 million to $3,672 million in 2012 compared to $3,878 million in 2011. The decrease was primarily due to lower costs associated with the lower sales volume in 2012 discussed in the Results of Operations section above The $54 million decrease in cash provided by operating activities in 2011 compared to 2010 was primarily due to the following:  payments for inventory and other operating costs increased $237 million to $3,878 million in 2011 compared to $3,641 million in 2010. The increase was primarily due to increased costs associated with the higher sales volume in 2011 discussed in the Results of Operations section above and an increase in inventory, primarily driven by:  higher pre-production engineering costs resulting from increased effort on programs such as the Airbus A350, various Bombardier platforms in the business jet market, and several international rotary and fixed-wing programs within Government Systems  additional increases to inventory resulting from the adverse impact of delayed funding authorizations from the U.S. Government, an increase to accommodate a transitional period of relocating certain production effort  to other existing facilities and higher purchases of component parts to mitigate supply chain risks after the earthquake and tsunami in Japan  payments for employee incentive pay increased $71 million. Incentive pay is expensed in the year it is incurred and paid in the first fiscal quarter of the following year. During 2011, $71million was paid for employee incentive pay costs incurred during 2010. No incentive pay costs were incurred for the full year 2009; accordingly, there was no 2010 payment for incentive pay  above items were partially offset by an increase in cash receipts from customers of $212million to $4,799million in 2011 compared to $4,587million in 2010, primarily due to the higher sales volume in 2011 as discussed in the Results of Operations section above and higher collections of receivables from customers, including higher progress payments received in advance of revenue recognition  payments for income taxes decreased $29million to $96 million in 2011 compared to $125million in 2010 primarily due to the timing of cash tax payments related to the retroactive extension of the Federal R&D Tax credit In 2013 cash provided by operating activities is expected to be in the range of $500 million to $600million. The projected range of cash provided by operating activities accommodates a $110million expected contribution to our U.S. qualified defined benefit pension plan and a projected $210million net increase in pre-production engineering costs. We expect a majority of the projected 2013 operating cash flow to be generated in the second half of our fiscal year.
Investing Activities (in millions) 2012 2011 2010 Cash used for investing activities $ (129 ) $ (92 ) $ (232 ) The $37 million increase in cash used for investing activities in 2012 compared to 2011 was primarily due to the following:  cash proceeds received from the dispositions of property and businesses decreased by $44 million. The majority of this decrease is due to the absence of the Rollmet divestiture which occurred in 2011  the absence of proceeds of $20 million in 2011 from the sale of a short-term investment at a non-U.S. subsidiary 34  partially offset by:  lower payments for the acquisition of businesses of $17 million. In 2012, there were no business acquisitions as compared to $17 million in payments in 2011 for the acquisitions of Blue Ridge Simulation, Inc. and Computing Technologies for Aviation, Inc.
a $14million decrease in capital expenditures The $140 million reduction in cash used for investing activities in 2011 compared to 2010 was primarily due to the following:  in 2011 we received $44 million in proceeds from the divestiture of the Rollmet business and $14 million in proceeds from the disposition of property compared to $1 million received from the disposition of property in 2010  in 2011 we acquired Blue Ridge Simulation, Inc. and Computing Technologies for Aviation, Inc. for $17 million compared to the 2010 acquisition of Air Routing for $91 million  we received $20 million from the sale of a short-term investment at a non-U.S. subsidiary in 2011 which was purchased for $21 million in 2010  above items were partially offset by a $43million increase in property additions Financing Activities (in millions) 2012 2011 2010 Cash used for financing activities $ (594 ) $ (471 ) $ (279 ) The $123 million increase in cash used for financing activities in 2012 compared to 2011 was primarily due to the following:  cash repurchases of common stock increased $386million to $714million in 2012 from $328million in 2011  partially offset by:  net proceeds of $247 million from the issuance of long-term debt in November of 2011  absence of a $24 million repayment of short-term debt at a non-U.S. subsidiary that occurred during 2011 The $192 million increase in cash used for financing activities in 2011 compared to 2010 was primarily due to the following:  cash repurchases of common stock increased $145million to $328million in 2011 from $183million in 2010  repayment of short-term borrowings increased by $24 million in 2011 as short-term debt of $24 million outstanding at the end of 2010 was repaid during 2011  cash proceeds from stock option exercises decreased $16 million to $22 million in 2011 from $38 million in 2010 Share Repurchase Program Cash flow from operations and the issuance of $250 million of 3.10 percent fixed rate debt in 2012 provided funds for repurchasing our common stock under our share repurchase program as follows: (in millions, except per share amounts) 2012 2011 2010 Amount of share repurchases $ 723 $ 322 $ 182 Number of shares repurchased 13.3 5.5 3.2 Weighted average price per share $ 54.41 $ 58.50 $ 57.50 35 Approximately $16 million and $0 of the 2012 and 2011 share repurchases reflected in the table above are included within accounts payable at September30, 2012 and 2011 , respectively, and are reflected as a non-cash transaction in our Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows.
Dividends We declared and paid cash dividends of $157 million , $148 million and $151 million in 2012 , 2011 and 2010 , respectively. Based on our current dividend policy, we will pay quarterly cash dividends which, on an annual basis, will equal $1.20 per share. We expect to fund dividends using cash generated from operations. The declaration and payment of future dividends is at the sole discretion of the Board of Directors.
Financial Condition and Liquidity We have historically maintained a capital structure characterized by conservative levels of debt outstanding that enables us sufficient access to credit markets. When combined with our ability to generate strong levels of cash flow from our operations, this capital structure provides the strength and flexibility necessary to pursue strategic growth opportunities and to return value to our shareowners. A comparison of key elements of our financial condition as of September30, 2012 and 2011 are as follows: September30 (in millions) 2012 2011 Cash and cash equivalents $ 335 $ 530 Long-term debt, net (779 ) (528 ) Net debt (1) $ (444 ) $ 2 Total equity $ 1,264 $ 1,528 Debt to total capitalization (2) 38 % 26 % Net debt to total capitalization (3) 26 %  % (1) Calculated as total of long-term debt, net (Total debt), less cash and cash equivalents (2) Calculated as Total debt divided by the sum of Total debt plus Total equity (3) Calculated as Net debt divided by the sum of Net debt plus Total equity We primarily fund our contractual obligations, capital expenditures, small to medium sized acquisitions, dividends and share repurchases from cash generated from operating activities. As of September 30, 2012, approximately 75 percent of our cash and cash equivalents resides at non-U.S. locations and may not be readily accessible for use in the U.S. due to potential adverse income tax implications and other statutory limitations. Due to the fluctuations of cash flows, we supplement our internally generated cash flow from time to time by issuing short-term commercial paper. Under our commercial paper program, we may sell up to $850 million face amount of unsecured short-term promissory notes in the commercial paper market. The commercial paper notes have maturities of not more than 364 days from the date of issuance. At September30, 2012 and September30, 2011 , there were no short-term commercial paper borrowings outstanding. The maximum amount of short-term borrowings outstanding during 2012 was $330 million and the maximum amount outstanding during 2011 was $345 million.
In the event our access to the commercial paper markets is impaired, we have access to an $850 million Revolving Credit Facility through a network of banks that matures in 2016, with options to further extend the term for up to two one-year periods and/or increase the aggregate principal amount up to $1.2 billion . These options are subject to the approval of the lenders. Our only financial covenant under the Revolving Credit Facility requires that we maintain a consolidated debt to total capitalization ratio of not greater than 60 percent, excluding the accumulated other comprehensive loss equity impact related to defined benefit retirement plans. Our debt to total capitalization ratio at September30, 2012 based on this financial covenant was 21 percent . We had no borrowings at September30, 2012 under our Revolving Credit Facility.
36 In addition, alternative sources of liquidity could include funds available from the issuance of equity securities, debt securities and potential asset securitization strategies. To date, we have not raised capital through the issuance of equity securities as we prefer to use debt financing to lower our overall cost of capital and increase our return on shareowners' equity.
Credit ratings are a significant factor in determining our ability to access short-term and long-term financing as well as the cost of such financing in terms of interest rates. Our strong credit ratings have enabled continued access to both short and long-term credit markets. If our credit ratings were to be adjusted downward by the rating agencies, the implications of such actions could include impairment or elimination of our access to credit markets and an increase in the cost of borrowing. The following is a summary of our credit ratings as of September30, 2012 : Credit Rating Agency Short-Term Rating Long-Term Rating Outlook Fitch Ratings F1 A Stable Moodys Investors Service P-1 A1 Negative Standard & Poors A-1 A Stable We were in compliance with all debt covenants at September30, 2012 and September30, 2011 .
Off-balance Sheet Arrangements As of September30, 2012 , other than operating leases, we had no material off-balance sheet arrangements, including guarantees, retained or contingent interests in assets transferred to unconsolidated entities, derivative instruments indexed to our stock and classified in shareowners' equity on our Consolidated Statement of Financial Position or variable interests in entities that provide financing, liquidity, market risk or credit risk support to our Company.
Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes certain of our contractual obligations as of September 30, 2012, as well as when these obligations are expected to be satisfied.
Payments Due by Period (in millions) Total Less than 1 Year 1-3 Years 4-5 Years Thereafter Long-term debt $ 750 $  $ 200 $  $ 550 Interest on long-term debt 199 33 52 48 66 Non-cancelable operating leases 249 64 103 49 33 Purchase obligations: Purchase orders 991 811 150 5 25 Purchase contracts 100 50 30 10 10 Total $ 2,289 $ 958 $ 535 $ 112 $ 684 Interest payments under long-term debt obligations exclude the potential effects of the related interest rate swap contracts. See Note10 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item8 below.
We lease certain office and manufacturing facilities as well as certain machinery and equipment under various lease contracts with terms that meet the accounting definition of operating leases. Our commitments under these operating leases, in the form of non-cancelable future lease payments, are not reflected as a liability on our Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.
Purchase obligations include purchase orders and purchase contracts. Purchase orders are executed in the normal course of business and may or may not be cancelable. Purchase contracts include agreements with suppliers under which there is a commitment to buy a minimum amount of products or pay a specified amount regardless of actual need. Generally, items represented in purchase obligations are not reflected as liabilities on our Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.
The table excludes obligations with respect to pension and other post-retirement benefit plans (see Note11 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item8 below). We plan to contribute $110 million to our U.S. qualified pension plan in 2013, which will fully satisfy the minimum statutory funding requirements for 2013. In October 2012, subsequent to fiscal year 37 end, $ 55 million of this amount was contributed to the plan. For years beyond 2013, the actual amounts required to be contributed to our U.S. qualified pension plan are dependent upon, among other things, interest rates and underlying asset returns. With the exception of certain bargaining unit plans, payments due under other post-retirement benefit plans are funded as the expenses are incurred.
In addition, the table excludes liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits, which totaled $42 million at September30, 2012 , as we cannot reasonably estimate the ultimate timing of cash settlements to the respective taxing authorities (see Note16 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item8 below).
The following table reflects certain of our commercial commitments as of September30, 2012 : Amount of Commitment Expiration by Period (in millions) Total Amount Committed Less than 1 Year 1-3 Years 4-5 Years Thereafter Letters of credit* $ 71 $ 57 $ 13 $ 1 $  * See Note19 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item8 below for a discussion of letters of credit.
In addition to the obligations disclosed above, we occasionally enter into offset agreements, required by certain customers in some non-U.S. countries, as a condition to obtaining contract awards for our products and services. These agreements, which generally extend over several years, are customary in our industry and are designed to enhance the social and economic environment of the country in which our customers operate. These commitments may be satisfied through activities that do not require us to use cash, including transfer of technology, providing manufacturing and other consulting support to in-country projects, strategic alliances and transactions conducted by third parties (e.g., our vendors). These agreements may also be satisfied through our use of cash for activities such as placement of direct work or vendor orders for supplies and/or services, building or leasing facilities for in-country operations, in-country employment of a non-U.S. country's citizens and other forms of assistance in the applicable country. The offset rules and regulations, as well as the underlying contracts, may differ from one country to another.
We typically do not commit to offset agreements until contract awards for our products or services are definitive. Should we be unable to meet the offset obligations we may be subject to contractual penalties, and our chances of receiving additional business from the applicable customers could be reduced or, in certain cases, eliminated. We historically have not been required to pay material penalties related to offset obligations and are currently in compliance with our offset commitments.
At September30, 2012 , we had outstanding offset obligations totaling approximately $237 million that extend through 2021.  The amounts ultimately applied against our offset requirements are based on negotiations with the customer and the cost to fulfill the obligation is typically only a fraction of the original obligation above.
RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING STANDARDS For information related to recently issued accounting standards, see Note2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item8 below.
ENVIRONMENTAL For information related to environmental claims, remediation efforts and related matters, see Note 21 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 below.
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES The preparation of our financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires us to make estimates, judgments and assumptions that affect our financial condition and results of operations that are reported in the accompanying consolidated financial statements as well as the related disclosure of assets and liabilities contingent upon future events.
38 Understanding the critical accounting policies discussed below and related risks is important in evaluating our financial condition and results of operations. We believe the following accounting policies used in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements are critical to our financial condition and results of operations as they involve a significant use of management judgment on matters that are inherently uncertain. If actual results differ significantly from management's estimates, there could be a material effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Management regularly discusses the identification and development of these critical accounting policies with the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors.
Accounting for Long-Term Contracts A substantial portion of our sales to government customers and certain of our sales to commercial customers are made pursuant to long-term contracts requiring development and delivery of products over several years and often contain fixed-price purchase options for additional products. Certain of these contracts are accounted for under the percentage-of-completion method of accounting. Sales and earnings under the percentage-of-completion method are recorded either as products are shipped under the units-of-delivery method (for production effort), or based on the ratio of actual costs incurred to total estimated costs expected to be incurred related to the contract under the cost-to-cost method (for development effort). Approximately 20 percent of our sales are accounted for under the percentage-of-completion method of accounting.
The percentage-of-completion method of accounting requires management to estimate the profit margin for each individual contract and to apply that profit margin on a uniform basis as sales are recorded under the contract. The estimation of profit margins requires management to make projections of the total sales to be generated and the total costs that will be incurred under a contract. These projections require management to make numerous assumptions and estimates relating to items such as the complexity of design and related development costs, performance of subcontractors, availability and cost of materials, labor productivity and cost, overhead and capital costs and manufacturing efficiency. These contracts often include purchase options for additional quantities and customer change orders for additional or revised product functionality. Sales and costs related to profitable purchase options are included in our estimates only when the options are exercised while sales and costs related to unprofitable purchase options are included in our estimates when exercise is determined to be probable. Sales related to change orders are included in profit estimates only if they can be reliably estimated and collectability is reasonably assured. Purchase options and change orders are accounted for either as an integral part of the original contract or separately depending upon the nature and value of the item. Anticipated losses on contracts are recognized in full in the period in which losses become probable and estimable.
Estimates of profit margins for contracts are typically reviewed by management on a quarterly basis. Assuming the initial estimates of sales and costs under a contract are accurate, the percentage-of-completion method results in the profit margin being recorded evenly as revenue is recognized under the contract. Changes in these underlying estimates due to revisions in sales and cost estimates, the combining of contracts or the exercise of contract options may result in profit margins being recognized unevenly over a contract as such changes are accounted for on a cumulative basis in the period estimates are revised. Cumulative catch-up adjustments resulting from changes in estimates did not have a material effect on our results of operations during the years ended September 30, 2012, 2011 or 2010.
Program Investments We defer certain pre-production engineering costs in Inventories, net and record up-front sales incentives in Intangible Assets (collectively referred to as Program Investments). These Program Investments are amortized over their estimated useful lives, up to a maximum of 15years. Estimated useful lives are limited to the amount of time we are virtually assured to earn revenues through a contractually enforceable right included in long-term supply arrangements with our customers. This provides the best matching of expense over the related period of benefit. The following provides an overview of the Program Investments: September30 (in millions) 2012 2011 Pre-production engineering costs $ 569 $ 446 Up-front sales incentives 186 173 Total Program Investments $ 755 $ 619 We defer the cost of certain pre-production engineering costs incurred during the development phase of a program in connection with long-term supply arrangements that contain contractual guarantees for reimbursement from customers. These customer guarantees generally take the form of a minimum order quantity with quantified reimbursement amounts if the 39 minimum order quantity is not taken by the customer. These costs are deferred in Inventories, net to the extent of the contractual guarantees and are amortized over their estimated useful lives using a units-of-delivery method, up to 15 years. This amortization expense is included as a component of cost of sales. Amortization is based on our expectation of delivery rates on a program-by-program basis and begins when we start recognizing revenue as we deliver equipment for the program. The estimated useful life is limited to the amount of time we are virtually assured to earn revenues through a contractually enforceable right included in long-term supply arrangements with our customers. Pre-production engineering costs in excess of the contractual guarantee, and costs incurred pursuant to supply arrangements that do not contain customer guarantees for reimbursement, are expensed as incurred.
We also provide up-front sales incentives prior to delivering products or performing services to certain commercial customers in connection with sales contracts. Up-front sales incentives are recorded as a customer relationship intangible asset and are  amortized using a units-of-delivery method over the period we have received a contractually enforceable right related to the incentives, up to 15 years. Amortization is based on our expectation of delivery rates on a program-by-program basis. Amortization begins when we start recognizing revenue as we deliver equipment for the program. Up-front sales incentives consisting of cash payments or customer account credits are amortized as a reduction of sales, whereas incentives consisting of free products are amortized as cost of sales.
Risks inherent in recovering the value of our Program Investments include, but are not limited to, the following:  changes in market conditions may affect product sales under a program. In particular, the commercial aerospace market has been historically cyclical and subject to downturns during periods of weak economic conditions, which could be prompted or exacerbated by political or other domestic or international events  bankruptcy or other significant financial difficulties of our customers  our ability to produce products could be impacted by the performance of subcontractors, the availability of specialized materials and other production risks As of September 30, 2012, Intangible assets include $14 million of up-front sales incentives related to Hawker Beechcraft, Inc., who declared bankruptcy in 2012. We currently estimate this balance to be recoverable. We evaluate the carrying amount of Program Investments for recovery at least annually or when potential indicators of impairment exist, such as a change in the estimated number of products to be delivered under a program. No impairment charges related to Program Investments were recorded in 2012 , 2011 or 2010 . While we believe our Program Investments are recoverable over time, the cancellation of a program by a customer would represent the most significant impairment factor related to Program Investments. Due to the long-term nature of the procurement cycle and the significant investment required to bring a program to market in the aerospace and defense industry, we believe the likelihood of a customer abruptly canceling a program is remote. We also evaluate our amortization of Program Investments quarterly based on our expectation of delivery rates on a program-by-program basis. The impact of changes in expected delivery rates on the Program Investments' amortization is adjusted as needed on a prospective basis. There were no significant changes in the rate of Program Investment amortization and no significant cumulative adjustments recorded in 2012 , 2011 and 2010 .
Amortization expense for pre-production engineering costs and up-front sales incentives for 2012 , 2011 and 2010 was as follows: (in millions) 2012 2011 2010 Amortization of pre-production engineering $ 18 $ 15 $ 15 Amortization of up-front sales incentives 9 6 4 Total amortization of Program Investments $ 27 $ 21 $ 19 40 As disclosed in Note 6 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements , the weighted average amortization period for pre-production engineering costs is approximately ten years. As disclosed in Note 8 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements , the weighted average amortization period for up-front sales incentives is approximately nine years. Anticipated amortization expense for Program Investments for fiscal years 2013 and beyond is summarized below: (in millions) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Thereafter Anticipated amortization expense for pre-production engineering costs $ 26 $ 42 $ 59 $ 70 $ 77 $ 295 Anticipated amortization expense for up-front sales incentives 8 14 20 26 22 96 Total anticipated amortization for Program Investments $ 34 $ 56 $ 79 $ 96 $ 99 $ 391 Pre-production engineering costs comprise 43 percent of our total Inventory balance at September 30, 2012, compared to 37 percent in the prior year. Pre-production engineering costs increased $123 million from September 30, 2011 to September 30, 2012. The majority of this increase was attributable to a $104 million increase within Commercial Systems, driven by increased spending on programs with Bombardier and Airbus. The remaining increase of $19 million was within Government Systems. Additionally, up-front sales incentives to Commercial Systems customers increased $13 million from September 30, 2011 to September 30, 2012. Growth in our Program Investments continues to be driven by the expanded market share our Company successfully captured over the past several years. Commercial Systems has secured positions on several key platforms in the air transport market, including the Boeing 787, Boeing 747-8 and Airbus A350. In the business and regional jet market, our Pro Line Fusion avionics system has been selected by customers around the globe, including Bombardier, Embraer and Gulfstream. Our customers have provided us a contractual guarantee for reimbursement on several of these programs; as such, our capitalized pre-production engineering costs have increased for these programs as the Company continues development efforts. Our Government Systems business has also contributed to the growth in pre-production engineering costs, as we ramp up efforts on several international rotary and fixed-wing programs that we recently won.
We expect the long-term supply arrangements resulting from these recent program wins to deliver significant revenues and profits to us over the next several years, continuing over the life of the aircraft platforms (which can range from ten to twenty years); as such, we believe our Program Investments are recoverable.
We expect the balance of our capitalized Program Investment costs will continue to increase over the next several years.  Looking forward to 2013, we expect pre-production engineering costs to increase approximately $210 million, primarily within Commercial Systems. We primarily fund our Program Investments with cash generated from operating activities. Our 2013 guidance for cash provided by operating activities accommodates the anticipated increase in pre-production engineering costs.
Income Taxes At the end of each quarterly reporting period, we estimate an effective income tax rate that is expected to be applicable for the full fiscal year. The estimate of our effective income tax rate involves significant judgments resulting from uncertainties in the application of complex tax regulations across many jurisdictions, implementation of tax planning strategies and estimates as to the jurisdictions where income is expected to be earned. These estimates may be further complicated by new laws, new interpretations of existing laws and rulings by taxing authorities. Due to the subjectivity and complex nature of these underlying issues, our actual effective income tax rate and related tax liabilities may differ from our initial estimates. Differences between our estimated and actual effective income tax rates and related liabilities are recorded in the period they become known or as our estimates are revised based on additional information. The resulting adjustment to our income tax expense could have a material effect on our results of operations in the period the adjustment is recorded. A one percentage point change in our effective income tax rate would change our annual income from continuing operations by approximately $9 million .
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recorded for tax carryforwards and the net tax effects of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting and income tax purposes. The future realization of our deferred tax assets ultimately depends on our ability to generate sufficient taxable income of the appropriate character (for example, ordinary income or capital gains) within the carryback and carryforward periods available under the tax law and, to a lesser extent, our ability to execute successful tax planning strategies. Management believes it is more likely than not that the current and long-term deferred tax assets will be realized through the reduction of future taxable income, except for deferred tax assets which have been fully reserved and primarily relate to foreign net operating losses. A change in the ability of our 41 operations to continue to generate future taxable income, or our ability to implement desired tax planning strategies, could affect our ability to realize the future tax deductions underlying our net deferred tax assets, and require us to provide a valuation allowance against our net deferred tax assets. The recognition of a valuation allowance would result in a reduction to net income and if significant, could have a material impact on our effective tax rate, results of operations and financial position in any given period.
As part of the determination of our tax liability, management exercises considerable judgment in evaluating tax positions taken by us in determining the income tax provision and establishes reserves for tax contingencies in accordance with the Income Taxes topic of the FASB Accounting Standards Codification. See Note16 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item8 below for further detail regarding unrecognized tax benefits, deferred taxes and the factors considered in evaluating deferred tax asset realization.
Goodwill As of September30, 2012 , we had $780 million of goodwill related to various business acquisitions. We perform impairment tests on goodwill on an annual basis during the second quarter of each fiscal year, or on an interim basis if events or circumstances indicate that it is more likely than not that impairment has occurred.
Goodwill is potentially impaired if the carrying value of the reporting unit that contains the goodwill exceeds its estimated fair value. The fair values of our reporting units are determined using a combination of an income approach, which estimates fair value based upon future discounted cash flows, and a market approach, which estimates fair value using market multiples, ratios and valuations of a set of comparable public companies within our industry.
The valuation methodology and underlying financial information that is used to estimate the fair value of our reporting units requires significant judgments to be made by management. These judgments include, but are not limited to, the long-term projections of future financial performance and the selection of appropriate discount rates used to present value future cash flows. Our five-year strategic operating plan serves as the basis for these valuations and represents our best estimate of future business conditions in our industry as well as our ability to compete. Discount rates are determined based upon the weighted average cost of capital for a set of comparable companies adjusted for risks associated with our different operations. Our goodwill impairment tests that were performed in the second quarter of 2012 , 2011 and 2010 yielded no impairments. In addition, based upon the results of our 2012 impairment testing, none of our reporting units were at risk of their carrying value of net assets exceeding their respective fair value. If there were a significant downturn in our business, we could incur a goodwill impairment.
Warranty Accrued liabilities are recorded on our Consolidated Statement of Financial Position to reflect our contractual obligations relating to warranty commitments to our customers. We provide warranty coverage of various lengths and terms to our customers depending on standard offerings and negotiated contractual agreements. We record an estimate for warranty expense at the time of sale based on historical warranty return rates and repair costs. We believe our primary source of warranty risk relates to extended warranty terms.
As shown in Note 19 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 below, the carrying amount of accrued product warranty costs has declined $91 million from a balance of $217 million at September 30, 2009, to a balance of $126 million at September30, 2012 . This trend is driven by a variety of factors.
Approximately $40 million of the decline from 2009 to 2012 is attributable to the Commercial Systems business. A primary source of warranty risk for Commercial Systems in the past related to sales of wide-body in-flight entertainment products and systems. As discussed in the Commercial Systems Results of Operations section above, sales related to Wide-body IFE have declined significantly over the past several years due to the Company's previously announced decision to cease investing in this product area. As sales volumes related to Wide-body IFE continue to decline and warranty periods on these legacy products expire, our warranty reserve balance has also been reduced. Product reliability improvements have also favorably impacted incurred warranty costs within Commercial Systems, contributing to a lower warranty reserve.
The remaining decrease in our accrued warranty balance from 2009 to 2012 is primarily attributable to certain favorable adjustments recorded by Government Systems in 2012, 2011 and 2010 to reduce warranty reserves for changes in estimate, as shown in Note 19 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 below. These reductions were driven by the completion of certain Government Systems programs that no longer require a warranty and a favorable impact from lower than anticipated repair costs across various product areas.
42 Should future warranty experience differ materially from our historical experience, we may be required to record additional warranty liabilities which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows in the period in which these additional liabilities are required.
Pension Benefits We historically provided retirement benefits to most of our employees in the form of defined benefit pension plans. Accounting standards require the cost of providing these pension plans be measured on an actuarial basis. These accounting standards will generally reduce, but not eliminate, the volatility of pension expense as actuarial gains and losses resulting from both normal year-to-year changes in valuation assumptions and the differences from actual experience are deferred and amortized. The application of these accounting standards requires management to make numerous assumptions and judgments that can significantly affect these measurements. Critical assumptions made by management in performing these actuarial valuations include the selection of discount rates and expectations on the future rate of return on pension plan assets.
Discount rates are used to determine the present value of our pension obligations and also affect the amount of pension expense recorded in any given period. We estimate this discount rate based on the rates of return of high quality, fixed-income investments with maturity dates that reflect the expected time horizon that benefits will be paid (see Note11 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item8 below). Changes in the discount rate could have a material effect on our reported pension obligations and would also impact the related pension expense.
The expected rate of return is our estimate of the long-term earnings rate on our pension plan assets and is based upon both historical long-term actual and expected future investment returns considering the current investment mix of plan assets. Differences between the actual and expected rate of return on plan assets can impact our expense for pension benefits. In 2013, we are reducing our expected rate of return on plan assets by 50 basis points, down to 8.25 percent from the 8.75 percent used in 2012. This reduction in our expected rate of return assumption will serve to increase pension costs in 2013.
Holding all other factors constant, the estimated impact on 2012 pension income and pension benefit obligation for our U.S. plans caused by hypothetical changes to key assumptions is as follows: (in millions) Change in Assumption Assumption 25 Basis Point Increase 25 Basis Point Decrease Pension obligation discount rate $105 pension projected benefit obligation decrease $108 pension projected benefit obligation increase Expected long-term rate of return on plan assets $6 additional pension income $6 decrease to pension income As disclosed in Note 11 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 below, beginning in 2011, actuarial gains and losses (including those resulting from a change in the pension obligation discount rate) are amortized over the expected future life expectancy of inactive participants, or about 28 years. In 2010, actuarial gains and losses were amortized over the average remaining service period of active participants, or about 11 years. This change in pension amortization period was the primary factor impacting the $42 million decrease in pension expense from 2010 to 2011. This change in amortization period also resulted in our pension expense (income) being less sensitive to changes in the discount rate assumption. An increase or decrease of 25 basis points in the pension obligation discount rate would impact 2012 pension income by less than $2 million.
Inventory Valuation Reserves Inventory valuation reserves are recorded in order to report inventories at the lower of cost or market value on our Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. The determination of inventory valuation reserves requires management to make estimates and judgments on the future salability of inventories. Valuation reserves for excess, obsolete and slow-moving inventory are estimated by comparing the inventory levels of individual parts to both future sales forecasts or production requirements and historical usage rates in order to identify inventory that is unlikely to be sold above cost. Other factors that management considers in determining these reserves include overall market conditions and other inventory management initiatives. Management can generally react to reduce the likelihood of severe excess and slow-moving inventory issues by changing purchasing behavior, although abrupt changes in market conditions can limit our ability to react quickly.
43 Management believes its primary source of risk for excess and obsolete inventory is derived from life-time buy inventory. Life-time buy inventory consists of inventory that is typically no longer being produced by our vendors but for which we purchase multiple years of supply in order to meet production and service requirements over the life span of a product. Total life-time buy inventory on hand at September30, 2012 was $100million.
Excluding pre-production engineering costs and progress payments, we had $851million of gross inventory on hand at September30, 2012 with $86million of inventory valuation reserves. Although management believes these reserves are adequate, any abrupt changes in market conditions may require us to record additional inventory valuation reserves which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the period in which these additional reserves are required. Pre-production engineering costs are discussed in the "Program Investments" section of our Critical Accounting Policies above.
Item 7A.
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.
Interest Rate Risk In addition to using cash provided by normal operating activities, we utilize a combination of short-term and long-term debt to finance operations. Our operating results and cash flows are exposed to changes in interest rates that could adversely affect the amount of interest expense incurred and paid on debt obligations in any given period. In addition, changes in interest rates can affect the fair value of our debt obligations. Such changes in fair value are only relevant to the extent these debt obligations are settled prior to maturity. We manage our exposure to interest rate risk by maintaining an appropriate mix of fixed and variable rate debt and when considered necessary, we may employ financial instruments in the form of interest rate swaps to help meet this objective.
At September30, 2012 , we had $200 million of 4.75 percent fixed rate long-term debt obligations outstanding with a carrying value of $200 million and a fair value of $210 million. In November 2003 we converted $100 million of this fixed rate debt to floating rate debt bearing interest at six-month LIBOR less .075 percent by executing receive fixed, pay variable interest rate swap contracts. At September30, 2012 , we also had $300 million of 5.25 percent fixed rate long-term debt obligations outstanding with a carrying value of $299 million and a fair value of $363 million. In January 2010 we converted $150 million of this fixed rate debt to floating rate debt based on six-month LIBOR plus 1.235 percent. Finally, at September30, 2012 , we had $250 million of 3.10 percent fixed rate unsecured long-term debt with a carrying value of $249 million and a fair value of $264 million.
A hypothetical 10 percent increase or decrease in average market interest rates would have decreased or increased the fair value of our long-term fixed rate debt, exclusive of the effects of the interest rate swap contracts, by $7 million. The fair value of the $250 million notional value of interest rate swap contracts was a $31 million net asset at September30, 2012 . A hypothetical 10 percent increase or decrease in average market interest rates would decrease or increase the fair value of our interest rate swap contracts by $1 million. Our results of operations are affected by changes in market interest rates related to variable rate debt. Inclusive of the effect of the interest rate swaps, a hypothetical 10 percent increase or decrease in average market interest rates would not have a material effect on our operations or cash flows. For more information related to outstanding debt obligations and derivative financial instruments, see Notes 10, 17 and 18 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 below.
Foreign Currency Risk We transact business in various foreign currencies which subjects our cash flows and earnings to exposure related to changes to foreign currency exchange rates. We attempt to manage this exposure through operational strategies and the use of foreign currency forward exchange contracts (foreign currency contracts). All foreign currency contracts are executed with banks we believe to be creditworthy and are denominated in currencies of major industrial countries. The majority of our non-functional currency firm and anticipated receivables and payables are hedged using foreign currency contracts. It is our policy not to manage exposure to net investments in non-U.S. subsidiaries or enter into derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes. Notional amounts of outstanding foreign currency forward exchange contracts were $393 million and $502 million at September30, 2012 and September30, 2011 , respectively. Notional amounts are stated in U.S. dollar equivalents at spot exchange rates at the respective dates. Principal currencies that are hedged include the European euro, British pound sterling and Japanese yen. The duration of foreign currency contracts is generally five years or less. The net fair value of these foreign currency contracts was a net asset of $2 million and $1 million at September30, 2012 and September30, 2011 , respectively. A 10 percent increase or decrease in the value of the U.S. dollar against all currencies would decrease or increase the fair value of our foreign currency contracts at September30, 2012 by $8 million. For more information related to outstanding currency forward exchange contracts, see Notes 17 and 18 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 below.
44 Item 8.
Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.
MANAGEMENT'S RESPONSIBILITY FOR FINANCIAL STATEMENTS We, the management team of Rockwell Collins, are responsible for the preparation, integrity and objectivity of the financial statements and other financial information we have presented in this report. The financial statements were prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, applying our estimates and judgments.
Deloitte& Touche LLP, our independent registered public accounting firm, is retained to audit our financial statements. Their accompanying report is based on audits conducted in accordance with standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), which include the consideration of our internal controls to determine the nature, timing and extent of audit tests to be applied.
Our Board of Directors exercises its responsibility for these financial statements through its Audit Committee, which consists entirely of independent, non-management Board members. The Audit Committee meets regularly with management, the independent registered public accounting firm and with the Company's General Auditor, both privately and with management present, to review accounting, auditing, internal control and financial reporting matters.
/s/ CLAYTON M. JONES /s/ PATRICK E. ALLEN ClaytonM. Jones Chairman& Chief Executive Officer PatrickE. Allen Senior Vice President& Chief Financial Officer 45 MANAGEMENT'S REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting as defined in Rules13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Rockwell Collins' internal control over financial reporting is a process designed, under the supervision of the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of consolidated financial statements for external purposes in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Our internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1)pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of Rockwell Collins; (2)provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of consolidated financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, and that our receipts and expenditures are being made only in accordance with authorizations of Rockwell Collins' management and directors; and (3)provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of our assets that could have a material effect on the consolidated financial statements.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
Management assessed the effectiveness of Rockwell Collins' internal control over financial reporting as of September30, 2012 . In making this assessment, management used the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission in Internal ControlIntegrated Framework . Based on this assessment, management determined that Rockwell Collins maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of September30, 2012 .
Rockwell Collins' internal control over financial reporting as of September30, 2012 has been audited by Deloitte& Touche LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in their report which is included within the Controls and Procedures section in Item9A of this Form10-K.
/s/ CLAYTON M. JONES /s/ PATRICK E. ALLEN ClaytonM. Jones Chairman& Chief Executive Officer PatrickE. Allen Senior Vice President& Chief Financial Officer 46 REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM To the Board of Directors and Shareowners of Rockwell Collins, Inc.
We have audited the accompanying consolidated statements of financial position of Rockwell Collins, Inc. and subsidiaries (the "Company") as of September 28, 2012 and September 30, 2011, and the related consolidated statements of operations, cash flows, equity and comprehensive income for each of the three years in the period ended September 28, 2012. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
In our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company as of September 28, 2012 and September 30, 2011, and the consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended September 28, 2012, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of September 28, 2012, based on the criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our report dated November 13, 2012 expressed an unqualified opinion on the Company's internal control over financial reporting.
/s/ DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP Chicago, Illinois November 13, 2012 47 ROCKWELL COLLINS, INC.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL  POSITION (in millions, except per share amounts) September30 2012 2011 ASSETS Current Assets: Cash and cash equivalents $ 335 $ 530 Receivables, net 971 969 Inventories, net 1,332 1,195 Current deferred income taxes 58 106 Other current assets 91 89 Total current assets 2,787 2,889 Property 773 754 Goodwill 780 780 Intangible Assets 291 308 Long-term Deferred Income Taxes 455 448 Other Assets 228 210 TOTAL ASSETS $ 5,314 $ 5,389 LIABILITIES AND EQUITY Current Liabilities: Accounts payable $ 475 $ 485 Compensation and benefits 269 324 Advance payments from customers 288 269 Accrued customer incentives 174 128 Product warranty costs 126 148 Other current liabilities 108 141 Total current liabilities 1,440 1,495 Long-term Debt, Net 779 528 Retirement Benefits 1,693 1,633 Other Liabilities 138 205 Equity: Common stock ($0.01 par value; shares authorized: 1,000; shares issued: 183.8) 2 2 Additional paid-in capital 1,460 1,437 Retained earnings 3,708 3,288 Accumulated other comprehensive loss (1,607 ) (1,497 ) Common stock in treasury, at cost (shares held: September 30, 2012, 41.6; September 30, 2011, 30.5) (2,304 ) (1,707 ) Total shareowners equity 1,259 1,523 Noncontrolling interest 5 5 Total equity 1,264 1,528 TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY $ 5,314 $ 5,389 See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
48 ROCKWELL COLLINS, INC.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS (in millions, except per share amounts) Year Ended September 30 2012 2011 2010 Sales $ 4,726 $ 4,806 $ 4,631 Costs, expenses and other: Cost of sales 3,324 3,427 3,353 Selling, general and administrative expenses 543 533 476 Interest expense 27 19 20 Other income, net (25 ) (28 ) (14 ) Total costs, expenses and other 3,869 3,951 3,835 Income from continuing operations before income taxes 857 855 796 Income tax expense 248 240 239 Income from continuing operations 609 615 557 Income from discontinued operations, net of taxes  19 4 Net income $ 609 $ 634 $ 561 Earnings per share: Basic Continuing operations $ 4.19 $ 3.99 $ 3.55 Discontinued operations  0.12 0.02 Basic earnings per share $ 4.19 $ 4.11 $ 3.57 Diluted Continuing operations $ 4.15 $ 3.94 $ 3.50 Discontinued operations  0.12 0.02 Diluted earnings per share $ 4.15 $ 4.06 $ 3.52 Weighted average common shares: Basic 145.3 154.2 157.1 Diluted 146.8 156.1 159.2 Cash dividends per share $ 1.08 $ 0.96 $ 0.96 See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
49 ROCKWELL COLLINS, INC.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS (in millions) Year Ended September 30 2012 2011 2010 Operating Activities: Net income $ 609 $ 634 $ 561 Adjustments to arrive at cash provided by operating activities: Restructuring, asset impairment and customer bankruptcy charges (adjustment) 65 27 (1 ) Gain on sale of business  (27 )  Depreciation 117 108 115 Amortization of intangible assets and pre-production engineering costs 57 51 52 Stock-based compensation expense 24 24 24 Compensation and benefits paid in common stock 69 68 64 Excess tax benefit from stock-based compensation (9 ) (7 ) (17 ) Deferred income taxes 105 93 86 Pension plan contributions (126 ) (113 ) (110 ) Changes in assets and liabilities, excluding effects of acquisitions and foreign currency adjustments: Receivables (29 ) 49 (32 ) Production inventory (63 ) (121 ) (16 ) Pre-production engineering costs (141 ) (141 ) (95 ) Accounts payable (28 ) 58 43 Compensation and benefits (77 ) 61 64 Advance payments from customers 22 (55 ) (25 ) Accrued customer incentives 46 (4 ) 10 Product warranty costs (21 ) (35 ) (34 ) Income taxes (68 ) 59 48 Other assets and liabilities (18 ) (72 ) (26 ) Cash Provided by Operating Activities 534 657 711 Investing Activities: Property additions (138 ) (152 ) (109 ) Acquisition of businesses, net of cash acquired  (17 ) (96 ) Proceeds from the disposition of property 17 14 1 Acquisition of intangible assets (4 ) (4 ) (7 ) Proceeds (sales price adjustment) from business divestiture (3 ) 44  Cash provided to customer  (237 )  Collection of cash provided to customer  237  Purchase of short-term investments   (21 ) Proceeds from sale of short-term investments  20  Other investing activities (1 ) 3  Cash Used for Investing Activities (129 ) (92 ) (232 ) Financing Activities: Purchases of treasury stock (714 ) (328 ) (183 ) Cash dividends (157 ) (148 ) (151 ) Repayment of short-term borrowings  (24 )  Increase in long-term borrowings 247   Proceeds from the exercise of stock options 21 22 38 Excess tax benefit from stock-based compensation 9 7 17 Cash Used for Financing Activities (594 ) (471 ) (279 ) Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (6 ) 1  Net Change in Cash and Cash Equivalents (195 ) 95 200 Cash and Cash Equivalents at Beginning of Period 530 435 235 Cash and Cash Equivalents at End of Period $ 335 $ 530 $ 435 See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
50 ROCKWELL COLLINS, INC.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF EQUITY AND COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (in millions) Year Ended September30 2012 2011 2010 Common Stock Beginning and ending balance $ 2 $ 2 $ 2 Additional Paid-In Capital Beginning balance 1,437 1,420 1,395 Tax benefit from stock-based compensation 11 7 17 Shares issued under stock option and benefit plans (12 ) (14 ) (16 ) Stock-based compensation 24 24 24 Ending balance 1,460 1,437 1,420 Retained Earnings Beginning balance 3,288 2,816 2,444 Net income 609 634 561 Cash dividends (157 ) (148 ) (151 ) Shares issued under stock option and benefit plans (32 ) (14 ) (38 ) Ending balance 3,708 3,288 2,816 Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss Beginning balance (1,497 ) (1,259 ) (1,080 ) Pension and other retirement benefit adjustment (126 ) (217 ) (171 ) Currency translation gain (loss) 13 (21 ) (8 ) Unrealized gain from foreign currency cash flow hedges 3   Ending balance (1,607 ) (1,497 ) (1,259 ) Common Stock in Treasury Beginning balance (1,707 ) (1,497 ) (1,469 ) Share repurchases (723 ) (322 ) (182 ) Shares issued from treasury 126 112 154 Ending balance (2,304 ) (1,707 ) (1,497 ) Total Shareowners' Equity 1,259 1,523 1,482 Noncontrolling Interest Beginning balance 5 4 3 Other changes in equity attributable to noncontrolling interest  1 1 Ending balance 5 5 4 Total Equity $ 1,264 $ 1,528 $ 1,486 Comprehensive Income Net income $ 609 $ 634 $ 561 Other comprehensive loss, net of taxes (2012, $73; 2011, $130; 2010, $95) (110 ) (238 ) (179 ) Comprehensive income $ 499 $ 396 $ 382 See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
51 ROCKWELL COLLINS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL  STATEMENTS 1.
Business Description and Basis of Presentation Rockwell Collins, Inc. (the Company or Rockwell Collins) designs, produces and supports communications and aviation electronics for commercial and military customers worldwide.
The Company operates on a 52/53 week fiscal year ending on the Friday closest to September30. Each of 2012 , 2011 and 2010 was a 52-week fiscal year. For ease of presentation, September30 is utilized consistently throughout these financial statements and notes to represent the fiscal year end date. All date references contained herein relate to the Company's fiscal year unless otherwise stated.
During the second quarter of fiscal 2012, the Company determined that certain product sales had erroneously been presented as service sales in previously issued financial statements. With the correction, service sales are less than ten percent of total sales for all periods presented. Accordingly, service and product sales are no longer separately presented. This change did not impact previously reported total revenues, total cost of sales, or net income, nor did it have any effect on the Company's financial position or cash flows for any prior periods.
As discussed in Note 4, Discontinued Operations, the Company's Rollmet product line, formerly included within the Commercial Systems segment, was divested in 2011 and has been accounted for as a discontinued operation for all periods presented. Unless otherwise noted, disclosures pertain to the Company's continuing operations.
2.
Significant Accounting Policies Consolidation The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and all majority-owned subsidiaries. The Company has one consolidated subsidiary with income attributable to a noncontrolling interest. The net income and comprehensive income attributable to the noncontrolling interest is insignificant. The Company's investments in entities it does not control but over which it has the ability to exercise significant influence are accounted for under the equity method and are included in Other Assets. All intercompany transactions are eliminated.
Foreign Currency Translation and Transactions The functional currency for significant subsidiaries operating outside the United States is typically their respective local currency. Assets and liabilities of subsidiaries operating outside the United States with a functional currency other than the U.S. dollar are translated into U.S. dollars using the exchange rate at the balance sheet date. Sales, costs and expenses are translated at the average exchange rates in effect during the period. Foreign currency translation gains and losses are included as a component of Accumulated other comprehensive loss within the Consolidated Statement of Equity and Comprehensive Income.
Foreign exchange transaction gains and losses due to the remeasurement of account balances in foreign currencies are included within the Consolidated Statement of Operations and were not material to the Company's results of operations for 2012 , 2011 and 2010 .
Revenue Recognition The Company enters into sales arrangements that may provide for multiple deliverables to a customer. The Company identifies all goods and/or services that are to be delivered separately under a sales arrangement and allocates revenue to each deliverable based on relative fair values. Fair values are generally established based on the prices charged when sold separately by the Company. In general, revenues are separated between hardware, engineering services, maintenance services and installation services. The allocated revenue for each deliverable is then recognized using appropriate revenue recognition methods.
Sales related to long-term contracts requiring development and delivery of products over several years are accounted for under the percentage-of-completion method of accounting in accordance with the Construction-Type and Production-Type Contracts subtopic of the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Accounting Standards Codification. The percentage-of-completion method is predominately used in the Government Systems segment and sales and earnings under qualifying contracts are recorded either as products are shipped under the units-of-delivery method (for production effort), or based on the ratio of actual costs incurred to total estimated costs expected to be 52 ROCKWELL COLLINS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) incurred related to the contract under the cost-to-cost method (for development effort). Purchase options and change orders are accounted for either as an integral part of the original contract or separately depending upon the nature and value of the item. Sales and costs related to profitable purchase options are included in estimates only when the options are exercised whereas sales and costs related to unprofitable purchase options are included in estimates when exercise is determined to be probable. Sales related to change orders are included in estimates only if they can be reliably estimated and collectability is reasonably assured. Anticipated losses on contracts are recognized in full in the period in which losses become probable and estimable. Changes in estimates of profit or loss on contracts are included in earnings on a cumulative basis in the period the estimate is changed. Cumulative catch-up adjustments resulting from changes in estimates did not have a material effect on our results of operations during the years ended September 30, 2012, 2011 or 2010.
Sales related to long-term separately priced product maintenance or warranty contracts are accounted for based on the terms of the underlying agreements. Certain contracts are fixed-price contracts with sales recognized ratably over the contractual life, while other contracts have a fixed hourly rate with sales recognized based on actual labor or flight hours incurred. The cost of providing these services is expensed as incurred.
The Company recognizes sales for most other products or services when all of the following criteria are met: an agreement of sale exists, product delivery and acceptance has occurred or services have been rendered, pricing is fixed or determinable and collection is reasonably assured.
Cash and Cash Equivalents Cash and cash equivalents include time deposits, certificates of deposit with original maturity dates of three months or less and money market funds.
Allowance for Doubtful Accounts Allowances are established in order to report receivables at net realizable value on the Company's Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. The determination of these allowances requires management of the Company to make estimates and judgments as to the collectability of customer account balances. These allowances are estimated for customers who are considered credit risks by reviewing the Company's collection experience with those customers as well as evaluating the customers' financial condition. The Company also considers both current and projected economic and market conditions. Special attention is given to accounts with invoices that are past due. Past due is defined as any invoice for which payment has not been received by the due date specified on the billing invoice.
Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market using costs which approximate the first-in, first-out method, less related progress payments received. Inventoried costs include direct costs of manufacturing, certain engineering costs and allocable overhead costs. The Company regularly compares inventory quantities on hand on a part level basis to estimated forecasts of product demand and production requirements as well as historical usage. Based on these comparisons, management establishes an excess and obsolete inventory reserve as needed. Inventory valuation reserves were $86 million and $93 million at September30, 2012 and 2011 , respectively.
The Company defers certain pre-production engineering costs during the development phase of a program in connection with long-term supply arrangements that contain contractual guarantees for reimbursement from customers. Such customer guarantees generally take the form of a minimum order quantity with quantified reimbursement amounts if the minimum order quantity is not taken by the customer. These costs are deferred to the extent of the contractual guarantees and are amortized over their estimated useful lives using a units-of-delivery method, up to 15 years. This amortization expense is included as a component of cost of sales. Amortization is based on the Companys expectation of delivery rates on a program-by-program basis and begins when the Company starts recognizing revenue as the Company delivers equipment for the program. The estimated useful life is limited to the amount of time the Company is virtually assured to earn revenues through a contractually enforceable right included in long-term supply arrangements with the Companys customers. Pre-production engineering costs incurred pursuant to supply arrangements that do not contain customer guarantees for reimbursement are expensed as incurred.
53 ROCKWELL COLLINS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Progress Payments Progress payments relate to both receivables and inventories and represent cash collected from government-related contracts whereby the governments have a legal right of offset related to the receivable or legal title to the work-in-process inventory.
Property Property is stated at acquisition cost, net of accumulated depreciation. Depreciation of property is generally provided using straight-line methods over the following estimated useful lives: buildings and improvements, 15 - 40 years; machinery and equipment, 6 - 15 years; information systems software and hardware, 5 - 10 years; and furniture and fixtures, 6 - 12 years. Depreciation methods and lives are reviewed periodically with any changes recorded on a prospective basis.
Significant renewals and betterments are capitalized and replaced units are written off. Maintenance and repairs, as well as renewals of minor amounts, are charged to expense in the period incurred. The fair value of liabilities associated with the retirement of property is recorded when there is a legal or contractual requirement to incur such costs and the costs are reasonably estimable. Upon the initial recognition of a contractual or legal liability for an asset retirement obligation, the Company capitalizes the asset retirement cost by increasing the carrying amount of the property by the same amount as the liability. This asset retirement cost is then depreciated over the estimated useful life of the underlying property. The Company did not have any significant asset retirement obligations at September30, 2012 and 2011 .
Goodwill and Intangible Assets Goodwill and intangible assets generally result from business acquisitions. The purchase price of the acquisition is assigned to tangible and intangible assets and liabilities assumed based on fair value. The excess of the purchase price over the amounts assigned is recorded as goodwill. Assets acquired and liabilities assumed are allocated to the Company's reporting units based on the Company's integration plans and internal reporting structure. Purchased intangible assets with finite lives are amortized over their estimated useful lives. Goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives are not amortized, but reviewed at least annually for impairment.
Customer Relationship Up-Front Sales Incentives Rockwell Collins provides up-front sales incentives prior to delivering products or performing services to certain commercial customers in connection with sales contracts. Up-front sales incentives are recorded as a Customer relationship intangible asset and are amortized using a units-of-delivery method over the period the Company has received a contractually enforceable right related to the incentives, up to 15 years. Amortization is based on the Companys expectation of delivery rates on a program-by-program basis. Amortization begins when the Company starts recognizing revenue as the Company delivers equipment for the program. Up-front sales incentives consisting of cash payments or customer account credits are amortized as a reduction of sales, whereas incentives consisting of free products are amortized as cost of sales.
Accrued Customer Incentives Incentives earned by customers based on purchases of Company products or services are recognized as a liability when the related sale is recorded. Incentives consisting of cash payments or customer account credits are recognized as a reduction of sales while incentives consisting of free products and account credits where the customer's use is restricted to future purchases are recognized as cost of sales.
Impairment of Long-Lived Assets Long-lived assets are reviewed for impairment when management plans to dispose of assets or when events or circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of a long-lived asset is more likely than not unrecoverable. Assets held for disposal are reported at the lower of the carrying amount or fair value less cost to sell. Management determines fair value using a discounted future cash flow analysis or other accepted valuation techniques. Long-lived assets held for use are reviewed for impairment by comparing the carrying amount of an asset to the undiscounted future cash flows expected to be generated by the asset over its remaining useful life. If an asset is considered to be impaired, the impairment to be recognized is measured as the amount by which the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its fair value. See Note 23 for discussion of certain asset impairments recorded in 2012 and 2011.
54 ROCKWELL COLLINS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are tested annually for impairment with more frequent tests performed if indications of impairment exist. The Company's annual impairment testing date is in the second quarter of each fiscal year. Impairment for intangible assets with indefinite lives exists if the carrying value of the intangible asset exceeds its fair value. Goodwill is potentially impaired if the carrying value of a reporting unit exceeds its estimated fair value. Management determines fair value using a discounted future cash flow analysis and other accepted valuation techniques. The Company's annual impairment testing performed in the second quarter of 2012 , 2011 and 2010 yielded no impairments of goodwill or indefinite-lived intangible assets.
Advance Payments from Customers Advance payments from customers represent cash collected from customers in advance of revenue recognition.
Environmental Liabilities for environmental matters are recorded in the period in which it is probable that an obligation has been incurred and the cost can be reasonably estimated. At environmental sites in which more than one potentially responsible party has been identified, the Company records a liability for its estimated allocable share of costs related to its involvement with the site as well as an estimated allocable share of costs related to the involvement of insolvent or unidentified parties. At environmental sites in which the Company is the only responsible party, the Company records a liability for the total estimated costs of remediation.
Income Taxes Current tax liabilities and assets are based upon an estimate of taxes payable or refundable in the current year for each of the jurisdictions in which the Company is subject to tax. As part of the determination of its tax liability, management exercises considerable judgment in evaluating tax positions taken by the Company in determining the income tax provision and establishes reserves for uncertain tax positions in accordance with the Income Taxes topic of the FASB Accounting Standards Codification. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recorded for the estimated future tax effects attributable to temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities used for financial reporting purposes and their respective carrying amounts for income tax purposes. Deferred tax assets are reduced by a valuation allowance when, in the opinion of management, it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized.
Derivative Financial Instruments The Company uses derivative financial instruments in the form of foreign currency forward exchange contracts and interest rate swap contracts for the purpose of minimizing exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates on business transactions and interest rates, respectively. The Company's policy is to execute such instruments with banks the Company believes to be creditworthy and not enter into derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes or to manage exposure for net investments in non-U.S. subsidiaries. These derivative financial instruments do not subject the Company to undue risk as gains and losses on these instruments generally offset gains and losses on the underlying assets, liabilities or anticipated transactions that are being hedged.
All derivative financial instruments are recorded at fair value in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. For a derivative that has not been designated as an accounting hedge, the change in fair value is recognized immediately through earnings. For a derivative that has been designated as an accounting hedge of an existing asset or liability (a fair value hedge), the change in the fair value of both the derivative and underlying asset or liability is recognized immediately through earnings. For a derivative designated as an accounting hedge of an anticipated transaction (a cash flow hedge), the change in the fair value is recorded on the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position in Accumulated other comprehensive loss to the extent the derivative is effective in mitigating the exposure related to the anticipated transaction. The change in the fair value related to the ineffective portion of the hedge, if any, is immediately recognized in earnings. The amount recorded within Accumulated other comprehensive loss is reclassified into earnings in the same period during which the underlying hedged transaction affects earnings. The Company does not exclude any amounts from the measure of effectiveness for both fair value and cash flow hedges.
55 ROCKWELL COLLINS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Use of Estimates The financial statements of the Company have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, which require management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements. Actual results could differ from those estimates. Estimates are used in accounting for, among other items, long-term contracts, allowances for doubtful accounts, inventory obsolescence, product warranty cost liabilities, customer incentives, retirement benefits, income taxes, environmental matters, pre-production engineering costs, recoverability of long-lived assets and contingencies. Estimates and assumptions are reviewed periodically and the effects of changes, if any, are reflected in the Consolidated Statement of Operations in the period they are determined.
Concentration of Risks The Company's products and services are concentrated within the aerospace and defense industries with customers consisting primarily of military and commercial aircraft manufacturers, commercial airlines and the U.S. Government and non-U.S. governments. As a result of this industry focus, the Company's current and future financial performance is largely dependent upon the overall economic conditions within these industries. In particular, the commercial aerospace market has been historically cyclical and subject to downturns during periods of weak economic conditions, which could be prompted by or exacerbated by political or other domestic or international events. The defense market may be affected by changes in budget appropriations, procurement policies, political developments both domestically and abroad and other factors. The Budget Control Act of 2011 (BCA) imposes spending caps and certain reductions in security spending over a ten-year period through 2021. Absent additional Congressional action, further budget cuts (or sequestration) as outlined in the BCA will be implemented on January 3, 2013. Future reductions in U.S. Government security spending could have a significant adverse impact on the financial results of the Company's Government Systems operating segment. While management believes the Company's product offerings are well positioned to meet the needs of its customer base, any material deterioration in the economic and environmental factors that impact the aerospace and defense industries could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations, financial position or cash flows.
In addition to the overall business risks associated with the Company's concentration within the aerospace and defense industries, the Company is also exposed to a concentration of collection risk on credit extended to commercial airlines and business jet aircraft manufacturers. At September30, 2012 , accounts receivable due from U.S. and international commercial airlines were approximately $31 million and $37 million , respectively. At September30, 2012 , accounts receivable due from business jet aircraft manufacturers were approximately $125 million . The Company performs ongoing credit evaluations on the financial condition of all of its customers and maintains allowances for uncollectible accounts receivable based on expected collectability. Although management believes its allowances are adequate, the Company is not able to predict with certainty the changes in the financial stability of its customers. Any material change in the financial status of any one or group of customers could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations, financial position or cash flows. See Note 5 for further discussion on customer bankruptcy charges.
As of September30, 2012 , approximately 10 percent of the Company's employees were represented by collective bargaining agreements, which are generally set to expire between May 2013 and September 2015.
Recently Adopted Accounting Standards In May 2011, the FASB amended the guidance regarding fair value measurement and disclosure. The amended guidance clarifies the application of existing fair value measurement and disclosure requirements. The amendment became effective for the Company in the second quarter of 2012 with no significant impact to the Company's financial statements.
Recently Issued Accounting Standards In June 2011, the FASB amended requirements for the presentation of other comprehensive income (OCI), requiring presentation of comprehensive income in either a single, continuous statement of comprehensive income or on separate but consecutive statements, the statement of operations and the statement of OCI. The amendment is effective for the Company at the beginning of fiscal year 2013. The adoption of this guidance will not impact the Company's financial position, results of operations or cash flows and will only impact the presentation of OCI on the financial statements.
56 ROCKWELL COLLINS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 3.
Acquisitions During the years ended September 30, 2012, 2011 and 2010, the Company completed three acquisitions that are summarized as follows: Intangible Assets (dollars in millions) Fiscal Year Acquired Cash Purchase Price (1) Goodwill Finite Lived Weighted Average Life in Years Computing Technologies for Aviation, Inc.
2011 $ 11 $ 10 $ 3 9 Blue Ridge Simulation, Inc.
2011 6 6 1 9 AR Group, Inc.
2010 91 58 39 14 (1) Net of cash acquired and net of post-closing purchase price adjustments, when applicable Computing Technologies for Aviation, Inc.
On January 10, 2011, the Company acquired all the shares of Computing Technologies for Aviation, Inc. (CTA). CTA, with headquarters located in Charlottesville, Virginia, is a leading provider of flight operations management solutions for corporate flight departments and other aviation customers. The purchase price, net of cash acquired, was $ 11 million. In the fourth quarter of 2011, the purchase price allocation was finalized with $ 10 million allocated to goodwill and $ 3 million to finite-lived intangible assets with a weighted average life of approximately 9 years. The excess purchase price over net assets acquired reflects the Companys view that this acquisition will broaden the Companys flight information solutions capabilities.
None of the goodwill resulting from the acquisition is tax deductible. The goodwill is included within the Commercial Systems segment.
Blue Ridge Simulation, Inc.
On December 20, 2010, the Company acquired all the shares of Blue Ridge Simulation, Inc. (Blue Ridge Simulation). Blue Ridge Simulation, with headquarters located in Leesburg, Virginia, is a leading supplier of high-performance sensor simulation for U.S. Department of Defense, commercial and international training applications. The purchase price, net of cash acquired, was $ 6 million. In the first quarter of 2012, the purchase price allocation was finalized with  $ 6 million allocated to goodwill and $ 1 million to finite-lived intangible assets with a weighted average life of approximately 9 years. The excess purchase price over net assets acquired reflects the Companys view that this acquisition will enhance the Companys integrated training solutions. All goodwill resulting from the acquisition is tax deductible. The goodwill is included within the Government Systems segment.
AR Group, Inc.
On December 31, 2009, the Company acquired all the shares of AR Group, Inc. and affiliates (Air Routing). Air Routing, with headquarters located in Houston, Texas, is a leading global provider of trip support services for business aircraft flight operations. The purchase price, net of cash acquired, was $ 91 million. In the fourth quarter of 2010, the purchase price allocation was finalized with $ 58 million allocated to goodwill and $ 39 million to finite-lived intangible assets with a weighted average life of approximately 14 years. The excess purchase price over net assets acquired reflects the Companys view that this acquisition will broaden the Companys information management flight operations' capabilities.
None of the goodwill resulting from the acquisition is tax deductible. Air Routing goodwill is included within the Commercial Systems segment.
Pro-forma results for 2012, 2011 and 2010, assuming the acquisitions were made at the beginning of the year, are not presented as the pro-forma information would not be materially different from the consolidated reported results.
4.
Discontinued Operations On July 22, 2011, the Company sold its Rollmet product line. The sale price, net of a post-closing adjustment based on the final closing balance sheet, was $41 million , resulting in a gain of $17 million , net of tax. The Rollmet product line 57 ROCKWELL COLLINS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) provided seamless alloy and stainless steel pipes and propulsion system components for the energy, petrochemical and defense industries. The Company divested this non-core product line to focus on its primary business strategies. Rollmet's operating results are included in discontinued operations in the Company's Consolidated Statement of Operations for all periods presented.
Results of discontinued operations are as follows: Year Ended September 30 (in millions) 2012 2011 2010 Sales $  $ 19 $ 34 Income from discontinued operations before income taxes  4 6 5.
Receivables, Net Receivables, net are summarized as follows: (in millions) September30, 2012 September30, 2011 Billed $ 810 $ 718 Unbilled 366 404 Less progress payments (169 ) (143 ) Total 1,007 979 Less allowance for doubtful accounts (36 ) (10 ) Receivables, net $ 971 $ 969 Receivables expected to be collected beyond the next twelve months are classified as long-term and are included within Other Assets. Total receivables due from the U.S. Government including the Department of Defense and state and local agencies, both directly and indirectly through subcontracts, were $ 284 million at September30, 2012 and $ 388 million at September30, 2011 . U.S. Government unbilled receivables, net of progress payments, were $ 93 million and $ 136 million at September30, 2012 and 2011 , respectively.
Unbilled receivables principally represent sales recorded under the percentage-of-completion method of accounting that have not been billed to customers in accordance with applicable contract terms.
The Company is exposed to a concentration of collection risk on credit extended to airlines and aircraft manufacturers. During fiscal year 2012, certain customers filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection, including certain commercial airline customers and Hawker Beechcraft, Inc. (HBC), a business jet manufacturing customer who filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection on May 3, 2012.  As of September30, 2012 , total pre-petition accounts receivable due from these financially troubled customers, prior to applying the allowance for doubtful accounts, were approximately $38 million . During the twelve months ended September30, 2012 , the Company recorded bad debt reserves of $29 million related to these receivable balances. The bad debt charge is included within Selling, general, and administrative expenses on the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations, with approximately $23 million recorded as a general corporate expense, approximately $5 million recorded within the Company's Commercial Systems segment and the remaining $1 million recorded within the Company's Government Systems segment.
58 ROCKWELL COLLINS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 6.
Inventories, Net Inventories, net are summarized as follows: (in millions) September30, 2012 September30, 2011 Finished goods $ 168 $ 180 Work in process 254 265 Raw materials, parts and supplies 343 340 Less progress payments (2 ) (36 ) Total 763 749 Pre-production engineering costs 569 446 Inventories, net $ 1,332 $ 1,195 As of September 30, 2012, $360 million of the pre-production engineering costs is related to programs with Airbus and Bombardier.
Anticipated annual amortization expense for pre-production engineering costs is as follows: (in millions) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Thereafter Anticipated amortization expense for pre-production engineering costs $ 26 $ 42 $ 59 $ 70 $ 77 $ 295 Amortization expense for pre-production engineering costs for 2012 , 2011 and 2010 was $18 million , $15 million and $15 million , respectively. In 2012 the Company reclassified this amortization on the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows from changes in Inventories to Amortization of intangible assets and pre-production engineering costs for all periods presented.
As of September30, 2012 , the weighted average amortization period remaining for pre-production engineering costs included in Inventories, net was approximately 10 years.
In accordance with industry practice, inventories include amounts which are not expected to be realized within one year. These amounts primarily relate to pre-production engineering costs and life-time-buy inventory not expected to be realized within one year of $607 million and $485 million at September30, 2012 and 2011 , respectively. Life-time-buy inventory is inventory that is typically no longer produced by the Company's vendors but for which multiple years of supply are purchased in order to meet production and service requirements over the life span of a product.
59 ROCKWELL COLLINS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 7.
Property Property is summarized as follows: (in millions) September30, 2012 September30, 2011 Land $ 10 $ 14 Buildings and improvements 383 372 Machinery and equipment 1,045 1,002 Information systems software and hardware 326 310 Furniture and fixtures 66 66 Construction in progress 88 89 Total 1,918 1,853 Less accumulated depreciation (1,145 ) (1,099 ) Property $ 773 $ 754 As of September 30, 2011, Land and Buildings and improvements included $8 million associated with the carrying value of the vacated Irvine, California facility. In June 2012, the Company sold the Irvine facility and realized a gain of $5 million , which is included in Other income, net on the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations.
Property additions acquired by incurring accounts payable, which are reflected as a non-cash transaction in the Company's Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows, were $23 million , $21 million and $15 million at September30, 2012 , 2011 and 2010 , respectively.
8.
Goodwill and Intangible Assets Changes in the carrying amount of goodwill are summarized as follows: (in millions) Government Systems Commercial Systems Total Balance at September 30, 2010 $ 509 $ 257 $ 766 Blue Ridge acquisition 6  6 CTA acquisition  10 10 Rollmet divestiture  (1 ) (1 ) Foreign currency translation adjustments (1 )  (1 ) Balance at September 30, 2011 514 266 780 Foreign currency translation adjustments    Balance at September 30, 2012 $ 514 $ 266 $ 780 The Company performs an annual impairment test of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets during the second quarter of each fiscal year, or at any time there is an indication of potential impairment. The Company's 2012 and 2011 impairment tests resulted in no impairment.
60 ROCKWELL COLLINS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Intangible assets are summarized as follows: September30, 2012 September30, 2011 (in millions) Gross Accum Amort Net Gross Accum Amort Net Intangible assets with finite lives: Developed technology and patents $ 221 $ (159 ) $ 62 $ 219 $ (140 ) $ 79 Customer relationships: Acquired 91 (57 ) 34 90 (48 ) 42 Up-front sales incentives 212 (26 ) 186 190 (17 ) 173 License agreements 13 (8 ) 5 18 (9 ) 9 Trademarks and tradenames 15 (13 ) 2 15 (12 ) 3 Intangible assets with indefinite lives: Trademarks and tradenames 2  2 2  2 Intangible assets $ 554 $ (263 ) $ 291 $ 534 $ (226 ) $ 308 As described in Note 23, Restructuring and Asset Impairment Charges, Net, the Company's Commercial Systems business impaired a license agreement in 2012 that resulted in a $4 million reduction to Intangible assets and the expense was recorded within Cost of Sales. In 2011, the Company's Government Systems business terminated a technology license that resulted in a $7 million reduction to Intangible assets.
Amortization expense for intangible assets for 2012 , 2011 and 2010 was $39 million , $36 million and $37 million ,  respectively. As of September30, 2012 , the weighted average amortization period remaining for up-front sales incentives was approximately 9 years.
(in millions) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Thereafter Anticipated amortization expense for up-front sales incentives $ 8 $ 14 $ 20 $ 26 $ 22 $ 96 Anticipated amortization expense for all other intangible assets 22 19 15 12 12 23 Total $ 30 $ 33 $ 35 $ 38 $ 34 $ 119 9.
Other Assets Other assets are summarized as follows: (in millions) September30, 2012 September30, 2011 Long-term receivables $ 34 $ 32 Investments in equity affiliates 19 11 Exchange and rental assets (net of accumulated depreciation of $94 at September 30, 2012 and $104 at September 30, 2011) 51 57 Other 124 110 Other assets $ 228 $ 210 61 ROCKWELL COLLINS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Investments in Equity Affiliates Investments in equity affiliates primarily consist of four joint ventures  Vision Systems International, LLC (VSI): VSI is a joint venture with Elbit Systems, Ltd. for the joint pursuit of helmet-mounted cueing systems for the worldwide military fixed wing aircraft market  Data Link Solutions LLC (DLS): DLS is a joint venture with BAE Systems, plc for the joint pursuit of the worldwide military data link market  Integrated Guidance Systems LLC (IGS): IGS is a joint venture with Honeywell International Inc. for the joint pursuit of integrated precision guidance solutions for worldwide guided weapons systems  Quest Flight Training Limited (Quest): Quest is a joint venture with Quadrant Group plc that provides aircrew training services primarily for the United Kingdom Ministry of Defence Each joint venture is 50 percent owned by the Company and accounted for under the equity method. Under the equity method of accounting for investments, the Companys proportionate share of the earnings or losses of its equity affiliates are included in Net income and classified as Other income, net in the Consolidated Statement of Operations. For segment performance reporting purposes, Rockwell Collins share of earnings or losses of VSI, DLS, IGS and Quest are included in the operating results of the Government Systems segment.
In the normal course of business or pursuant to the underlying joint venture agreements, the Company may sell products or services to equity affiliates. The Company defers a portion of the profit generated from these sales equal to its ownership interest in the equity affiliates until the underlying product is ultimately sold to an unrelated third party. Sales to equity affiliates were $ 142 million , $ 102 million and $98 million for the years ended September30, 2012 , 2011 and 2010 , respectively. The deferred portion of profit generated from sales to equity affiliates was $ 3 million at September30, 2012 and $ 2 million at September30, 2011 .
Exchange and Rental Assets Exchange and rental assets consist primarily of Company products that are either loaned or rented to customers on a short-term basis in connection with warranty and other service related activities. These assets are recorded at acquisition or production cost and depreciated using the straight-line method over their estimated lives up to 15 years. Depreciation methods and lives are reviewed periodically with any changes recorded on a prospective basis. Depreciation expense for exchange and rental assets was $10 million , $11 million and $9 million for the years ended September30, 2012 , 2011 and 2010 , respectively.
10.
Debt Short-term Debt Under the Companys commercial paper program, the Company may sell up to $850 million face amount of unsecured short-term promissory notes in the commercial paper market. The commercial paper notes may bear interest or may be sold at a discount, and have a maturity of not more than 364 days from the time of issuance. At September30, 2012 and September30, 2011 , there were no outstanding short-term commercial paper borrowings.
Revolving Credit Facilities On May 26, 2011, the Company entered into an $850 million five-year unsecured revolving credit facility with various banks. The credit facility includes one financial covenant requiring the Company to maintain a consolidated debt to total capitalization ratio of not greater than 60 percent . The ratio excludes the accumulated other comprehensive loss equity impact related to defined benefit retirement plans. The ratio was 21 percent as of September30, 2012 . The credit facility has options to extend the term for up to two one-year periods and/or increase the aggregate principal amount up to $1.2 billion . These options are subject to the approval of the lenders. The credit facility also contains covenants that require the Company to satisfy certain conditions in order to incur debt secured by liens, engage in sale/leaseback transactions or merge or consolidate with another entity. Borrowings under this credit facility bear interest at the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) plus a variable margin based on the Companys unsecured long-term debt rating or, at the Companys option, rates determined by competitive bid. At September30, 2012 and September30, 2011 , there were no outstanding borrowings under this revolving credit facility.
62 ROCKWELL COLLINS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) In addition, short-term credit facilities available to non-U.S. subsidiaries amounted to $55 million as of September30, 2012 , of which $16 million was utilized to support commitments in the form of commercial letters of credit. As of September30, 2012 and September30, 2011 , there were no short-term borrowings outstanding under the Companys non-U.S. subsidiaries credit facilities.
At September30, 2012 and September30, 2011 , there were no significant commitment fees or compensating balance requirements under any of the Companys credit facilities.
Long-term Debt On November 16, 2011, the Company issued $250 million of 3.10 percent fixed rate unsecured debt due November 15, 2021 (the 2021 Notes).  The net proceeds to the Company from the sale of the 2021 Notes, after deducting a $1 million discount and $2 million of debt issuance costs, were $247 million .
On May 6, 2009, the Company issued $300 million of 5.25 percent fixed rate unsecured debt due July 15, 2019 (the 2019 Notes). The net proceeds to the Company from the sale of the 2019 Notes, after deducting a $2 million discount and $2 million of debt issuance costs, were $296 million . In January 2010, the Company entered into interest rate swap contracts which effectively converted $150 million of the 2019 Notes to floating rate debt based on six-month LIBOR plus 1.235 percent . See Notes 17 and 18 for additional information relating to the interest rate swap contracts.
On November 20, 2003, the Company issued $200 million of 4.75 percent fixed rate unsecured debt due December 1, 2013 (the 2013 Notes). At the time of the debt issuance, the Company entered into interest rate swap contracts which effectively converted $100 million of the 2013 Notes to floating rate debt based on six-month LIBOR less 0.075 percent . See Notes 17 and 18 for additional information relating to the interest rate swap contracts.
The 2021, 2019 and 2013 Notes are included in the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Financial Position net of any unamortized discount within the caption Long-term Debt, Net.  The debt issuance costs are capitalized within Other Assets on the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.  The debt issuance costs and any discounts are amortized over the life of the debt and recorded in Interest expense.
The 2021, 2019 and 2013 Notes each contain covenants that require the Company to satisfy certain conditions in order to incur debt secured by liens, engage in sales/leaseback transactions, merge or consolidate with another entity or transfer substantially all of the Companys assets. The Company was in compliance with all debt covenants at September30, 2012 and September30, 2011 .
Long-term debt and a reconciliation to the carrying amount is summarized as follows: (in millions) September30, 2012 September30, 2011 Principal amount of 2021 Notes, net of discount $ 249 $  Principal amount of 2019 Notes, net of discount 299 299 Principal amount of 2013 Notes 200 200 Fair value swap adjustment (Notes 17 and 18) 31 29 Long-term debt, net $ 779 $ 528 Interest paid on debt for the years ended September30, 2012 , 2011 and 2010 was $21 million , $18 million and $19 million , respectively.
11.
Retirement Benefits The Company sponsors defined benefit pension (Pension Benefits) and other postretirement (Other Retirement Benefits) plans which provide monthly pension and other benefits to eligible employees upon retirement.
63 ROCKWELL COLLINS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Pension Benefits The Company historically provided pension benefits to most of the Company's U.S. employees in the form of non-contributory, defined benefit plans that are considered qualified plans under applicable laws. The benefits provided under these plans for salaried employees are generally based on years of service and average compensation. The benefits provided under these plans for hourly employees are generally based on specified benefit amounts and years of service. In addition, the Company sponsors an unfunded non-qualified defined benefit plan for certain employees.
In June 2003, the Company amended its U.S. qualified and non-qualified defined benefit pension plans to discontinue benefit accruals for salary increases and services rendered after September30, 2006. These changes impacted all of the Company's domestic pension plans for all salaried and hourly employees who were not covered by collective bargaining agreements. Concurrently, the Company supplemented its existing defined contribution savings plan effective October1, 2006 to include an additional Company contribution.
The Company also maintains four defined benefit pension plans in countries outside of the U.S., two of which are unfunded.
Other Retirement Benefits Other retirement benefits consist of retiree health care and life insurance benefits that are provided to substantially all of the Company's U.S. employees hired before October1, 2006 and their beneficiaries. Employees generally become eligible to receive these benefits if they retire after age 55 with at least 10 years of service. Most plans are contributory with retiree contributions generally based upon years of service and adjusted annually by the Company. Retiree medical plans pay a stated percentage of expenses reduced by deductibles and other coverage, principally Medicare. The amount the Company will contribute toward retiree medical coverage for most employees is fixed. Additional premium contributions will be required from participants for all costs in excess of the Company's fixed contribution amount. Retiree life insurance plans provide coverage at a flat dollar amount or as a multiple of salary. With the exception of certain bargaining unit plans, Other Retirement Benefits are funded as expenses are incurred.
Components of Expense (Income) The components of expense (income) for Pension Benefits and Other Retirement Benefits are summarized below: Pension Benefits Other Retirement Benefits (in millions) 2012 2011 2010 2012 2011 2010 Service cost $ 8 $ 8 $ 6 $ 4 $ 4 $ 3 Interest cost 153 159 159 10 11 12 Expected return on plan assets (213 ) (212 ) (210 ) (1 ) (1 ) (1 ) Amortization: Prior service credit (18 ) (19 ) (19 ) (6 ) (16 ) (22 ) Net actuarial loss 57 48 90 11 12 13 Net benefit expense (income) $ (13 ) $ (16 ) $ 26 $ 18 $ 10 $ 5 Funded Status and Net Liability The Company recognizes the unfunded status of defined benefit retirement plans on the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position as Retirement Benefits. The current portion of the liability is the amount by which the actuarial present value of benefits included in the benefit obligation payable in the next twelve months exceeds the fair value of the plan assets and is reflected in Compensation and benefits in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.
64 ROCKWELL COLLINS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) The following table reconciles the projected benefit obligations (PBO), plan assets, funded status and net liability for the Company's Pension Benefits and the Other Retirement Benefits.
Pension Benefits Other Retirement Benefits (in millions) 2012 2011 2012 2011 PBO at beginning of period $ 3,518 $ 3,354 $ 254 $ 265 Service cost 8 8 4 4 Interest cost 153 159 10 11 Discount rate and other assumption changes 408 134 25 7 Actuarial losses (gains) 57 15 (7 ) (16 ) Plan amendments  14 (16 )  Plan participant contributions   8 14 Benefits paid (175 ) (166 ) (24 ) (31 ) Other (2 )    PBO at end of period 3,967 3,518 254 254 Plan assets at beginning of period 2,111 2,169 9 9 Actual return on plan assets 437 (5 ) 2  Company contributions 126 113 17 17 Plan participant contributions   8 14 Benefits paid (175 ) (166 ) (24 ) (31 ) Other 2    Plan assets at end of period 2,501 2,111 12 9 Funded status of plans $ (1,466 ) $ (1,407 ) $ (242 ) $ (245 ) Funded status consists of: Retirement benefits liability $ (1,461 ) $ (1,397 ) $ (231 ) $ (232 ) Compensation and benefits liability (11 ) (10 ) (11 ) (13 ) Other assets 6    Net liability $ (1,466 ) $ (1,407 ) $ (242 ) $ (245 ) The Company's non-U.S. defined benefit pension plans represented 4 percent and 4 percent of the total PBO at September30, 2012 and 2011 , respectively. The accumulated benefit obligation for all defined benefit pension plans was $3,952 million and $3,508 million at September30, 2012 and September30, 2011 , respectively.
65 ROCKWELL COLLINS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Other Comprehensive Loss The following table summarizes the amounts included in Accumulated other comprehensive loss before tax related to retirement benefits as of September30, 2012 and 2011 and changes recognized in Other comprehensive loss before tax for the years ended September30, 2012 and 2011: Pension Benefits Other Retirement Benefits (in millions) Prior Service Cost (Credit) Net Actuarial Loss Prior Service Cost (Credit) Net Actuarial Loss Balance at September30, 2010 $ (75 ) $ 1,949 $ (33 ) $ 177 Current year prior service cost 14    Current year net actuarial loss  366  (8 ) Amortization of prior service cost 19  16  Amortization of actuarial loss  (48 )  (12 ) Balance at September30, 2011 (42 ) 2,267 (17 ) 157 Current year prior service cost   (16 )  Current year net actuarial loss  241  18 Amortization of prior service cost 18  6  Amortization of actuarial loss  (57 )  (11 ) Balance at September30, 2012 $ (24 ) $ 2,451 $ (27 ) $ 164 The estimated amounts that will be amortized from Accumulated other comprehensive loss into expense (income) for Pension Benefits and Other Retirement Benefits during the year ending September30, 2013 are as follows: (in millions) Pension Benefits Other Retirement Benefits Total Prior service cost $ (18 ) $ (8 ) $ (26 ) Net actuarial loss 79 12 91 Total $ 61 $ 4 $ 65 Actuarial Assumptions The following table presents the significant assumptions used in determining the benefit obligations: Pension Benefits Other Retirement Benefits U.S.
Non-U.S.
U.S.
2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 Discount rate 3.56 % 4.43 % 4.08 % 5.57 % 3.21 % 4.20 % Compensation increase rate   3.46 % 3.46 %   Discount rates used to determine the benefit obligations are determined by using a weighted average of market-observed yields for high quality fixed income securities that correspond to the payment of benefits.
The Company's U.S. qualified and non-qualified plans were amended to discontinue benefit accruals for salary increases and services rendered after September30, 2006. The only U.S. plans that continue to accrue benefits are certain plans associated with collective bargaining agreements, and these plans are not impacted by increases in compensation as the benefit formula is dependent solely on years of service. As a result, the compensation increase rate assumption for U.S. plans is zero.
66 ROCKWELL COLLINS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Significant assumptions used in determining the net benefit expense (income) are as follows: Pension Benefits Other Retirement Benefits U.S.
Non-U.S.
U.S.
2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 Discount rate 4.43 % 4.85 % 5.57 % 4.94 % 4.20 % 4.52 % Expected long-term return on plan assets* 8.75 % 8.75 % 8.73 % 8.68 % 8.75 % 8.75 % Compensation increase rate   3.46 % 3.44 %   Health care cost gross trend rate**     9.00 % 11.00 % Ultimate trend rate**     5.00 % 5.50 % Year that trend reaches ultimate rate**     2019 2016 * In fiscal year 2013, the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets for both U.S. Pension Benefits and Other Retirement Benefits will be reduced to 8.25 percent .
** Due to the effect of the fixed Company contribution, increasing or decreasing the health care cost trend rate by one percentage point would not have a significant impact on the Company's cost of providing Other Retirement Benefits.
Expected long-term return on plan assets for each year presented is based on both historical long-term actual and expected future investment returns considering the current investment mix of plan assets. The Company uses a market-related value of plan assets reflecting changes in the fair value of plan assets over a five-year period. In 2010, actuarial gains and losses in excess of 10 percent of the greater of the market-related value of plan assets or the projected benefit obligation (the corridor) were amortized on a straight-line basis over the average remaining service period of active participants, which was approximately 11 years . Beginning in 2011, the amortization of such gains and losses were over the expected future lifetime of inactive participants, which was approximately 28 years . This change in amortization period was due to the fact that almost all of the plan's participants are now considered inactive.
Prior service costs resulting from plan amendments are amortized in equal annual amounts over the average remaining service period of affected active participants or over the remaining life expectancy of affected retired participants.
Plan Assets Total plan assets for Pension Benefits and Other Retirement Benefits as of September30, 2012 and 2011 were $2,513 million and $2,120 million , respectively. The Company has established investment objectives that seek to preserve and maximize the amount of plan assets available to pay plan benefits. These objectives are achieved through investment guidelines requiring diversification and allocation strategies designed to maximize the long-term returns on plan assets while maintaining a prudent level of investment risk. These investment strategies are implemented using actively managed and indexed assets. Target and actual asset allocations as of September30, 2012 and 2011 are as follows: Target Mix 2012 2011 Equities 40% - 70% 61 % 60 % Fixed income 25% - 60% 36 % 37 % Alternative investments % - 15%  %  % Cash % - 5% 3 % 3 % Alternative investments may include real estate, hedge funds, venture capital and private equity. There were no plan assets invested in the securities of the Company as of September30, 2012 and 2011 or at any time during the years then ended. Target and actual asset allocations are periodically rebalanced between asset classes in order to mitigate investment risk and maintain asset classes within target allocations.
67 ROCKWELL COLLINS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) The following table presents the fair value of the Company's pension plans' assets as of September30, 2012 and 2011, by asset category segregated by level within the fair value hierarchy, as described in Note17: September30, 2012 September30, 2011 (in millions) Level1 Level2 Level3 Total Level1 Level2 Level3 Total Asset category: Equity securities: U.S. equity $ 859 $ 183 $  $ 1,042 $ 772 $ 122 $  $ 894 Non-U.S. equity 438 48  486 339 35  374 Fixed income securities: Corporate  545  545  468  468 U.S. government 139 133  272 122 128  250 Emerging market  72  72  56  56 Mortgage and asset-backed  3  3  6  6 Other  16  16  9  9 Cash and cash equivalents  58  58  49  49 Sub-total 1,436 1,058  2,494 1,233 873  2,106 Net receivables related to investment transactions 7 5 Total $ 2,501 $ 2,111 The following table presents the fair value of the Company's other retirement benefits plan assets as of September30, 2012 and 2011, by asset category segregated by level within the fair value hierarchy, as described in Note17: September30, 2012 September30, 2011 (in millions) Level1 Level2 Level3 Total Level1 Level2 Level3 Total Asset category: Equity securities: U.S. equity $ 6 $  $  $ 6 $ 6 $  $  $ 6 Fixed income securities: Corporate  1  1  1  1 U.S. government 2 1  3  1  1 Mortgage and asset-backed         Cash and cash equivalents  2  2  1  1 Total $ 8 $ 4 $  $ 12 $ 6 $ 3 $  $ 9 Valuation Techniques Level 1 assets for the pension plans and other retirement benefits plan are primarily comprised of equity and fixed income securities. Level 1 equity securities are actively traded on U.S. and non-U.S. exchanges and are valued using the market approach at quoted market prices on the measurement date. Level 1 fixed income securities are valued using quoted market prices.
Level2 equity securities contain equity funds that hold investments with values based on quoted market prices, but for which the funds are not valued on a quoted market basis. Level 2 fixed income securities are primarily valued using pricing models that use observable market data or bids provided by independent investment brokerage firms.
Cash and cash equivalents includes cash which is used to pay benefits and cash invested in a short-term investment fund that holds securities with values based on quoted market prices, but for which the funds are not valued on a quoted market basis. As such, the cash and cash equivalents are classified as Level 2 in the tables above.
68 ROCKWELL COLLINS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) The Company does not have any significant Level 3 assets in its pension plan or other retirement benefit plan. As described in Note 17, the fair value of a Level 3 asset is derived from unobservable inputs that are based on the Company's own assumptions.
Contributions For the years ended September30, 2012 and 2011, the Company made contributions to its pension plans as follows: (in millions) 2012 2011 Contributions to U.S. qualified plan $ 113 $ 100 Contributions to U.S. non-qualified plan 8 8 Contributions to non-U.S. plans 5 5 Total $ 126 $ 113 The Companys objective with respect to the funding of its pension plans is to provide adequate assets for the payment of future benefits. Pursuant to this objective, the Company will fund its pension plans as required by governmental regulations and may consider discretionary contributions as conditions warrant. The Company plans to contribute $ 110 million to its U.S. qualified pension plan in 2013 of which $ 55 million was contributed in October 2012, subsequent to the Company's 2012 fiscal year end. Any additional future contributions necessary to satisfy the minimum statutory funding requirements are dependent upon actual plan asset returns and interest rates. The Company may elect to make additional discretionary contributions during 2013 to further improve the funded status of this plan. Contributions to the non-U.S. plans and the U.S. non-qualified plan are expected to total $14 million in 2013 .
Contributions to the Company's other postretirement plans are expected to total $23 million in 2013 .
Benefit Payments The following table reflects estimated benefit payments to be made to eligible participants for each of the next five years and the following five years in aggregate: (in millions) Pension Benefits Other Retirement Benefits 2013 $ 176 $ 23 2014 206 18 2015 198 18 2016 203 18 2017 208 18 2018-2022 1,121 86 Estimated benefit payments for Other Retirement Benefits is shown net of plan participant contributions and reflects the Company's portion only. Substantially all of the Pension Benefit payments relate to the Company's U.S. qualified funded plans which are paid from the pension trust.
Defined Contribution Savings Plans and Employee Stock Purchase Plan The Company sponsors defined contribution savings plans that are available to the majority of its employees. The plans allow employees to contribute a portion of their compensation on a pre-tax and/or after-tax basis in accordance with specified guidelines. The Company matches a percentage of employee contributions using common stock of the Company up to certain limits. Employees may transfer at any time all or a portion of their balance in Company common stock to any of the other investment options offered within the plans. The Company is authorized to issue 16.5 million shares under the defined contribution savings plans, of which 3.9 million shares are available for future contributions at September30, 2012 . Additionally, the defined contribution savings plan includes a cash contribution based on an employee's age and service.
69 ROCKWELL COLLINS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) The Company's expense related to the defined contribution savings plans for 2012, 2011 and 2010 was as follows: 2012 2011 2010 (in millions) Shares Expense Shares Expense Shares Expense Contribution in shares: Defined contribution savings plans 1.1 $ 58 1.0 $ 57 0.9 $ 53 Contribution in cash: Retirement contribution 41 39 34 Other 2 1 1 Total $ 101 $ 97 $ 88 The Company also offers an Employee Stock Purchase Plan (ESPP) which allows employees to have their base compensation withheld to purchase the Company's common stock each month at 95 percent of the fair market value on the last day of the month. The Company is authorized to issue 9.0 million shares under the ESPP, of which 3.3 million shares are available for future grant at September30, 2012 . The ESPP is considered a non-compensatory plan and accordingly no compensation expense is recorded in connection with this benefit. During 2012 , 2011 and 2010 , 0.2 million , 0.2 million and 0.2 million shares, respectively, of Company common stock were issued to employees at a value of $11 million , $11 million and $11 million for the respective periods.
12.
Shareowners' Equity Common Stock The Company is authorized to issue one billion shares of common stock, par value $0.01 per share, and 25 million shares of preferred stock, without par value, of which 2.5 million shares are designated as SeriesA Junior Participating Preferred Stock (Junior Preferred Stock) for issuance in connection with the exercise of preferred share purchase rights under a rights plan. The Company does not currently have a rights plan or any outstanding preferred share purchase rights.
Treasury Stock The Company repurchased shares of its common stock as follows: (in millions) 2012 2011 2010 Amount of share repurchases $ 723 $ 322 $ 182 Number of shares repurchased 13.3 5.5 3.2 At September30, 2012 , the Company was authorized to repurchase an additional $481 million of outstanding stock under the Company's share repurchase program. Approximately $16 million and $0 of the 2012 and 2011 share repurchases reflected in the table above are included within accounts payable at September30, 2012 and 2011 , respectively, and are reflected as a non-cash transaction in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows.
Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss Accumulated other comprehensive loss (AOCL) consists of the following: September30 (in millions) 2012 2011 2010 Unamortized pension and other retirement benefits (net of taxes of $945 for 2012; $872 for 2011 and $742 for 2010) $ (1,619 ) $ (1,493 ) $ (1,276 ) Foreign currency translation adjustment 10 (3 ) 18 Foreign currency cash flow hedge adjustment 2 (1 ) (1 ) Accumulated other comprehensive loss $ (1,607 ) $ (1,497 ) $ (1,259 ) 70 ROCKWELL COLLINS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 13.
Stock-Based Compensation and Earnings Per Share Stock-Based Compensation Program Description Under the Company's 2006 Long-Term Incentives Plan, up to 17.5 million shares of common stock may be issued by the Company as non-qualified options, incentive stock options, performance units, performance shares, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock, restricted stock units, dividend equivalent rights, and other awards. Each share issued pursuant to an award of restricted stock, restricted stock units, performance shares, and performance units counts as two shares against the authorized limit. Shares available for future grant or payment under this plan were 7.6 million at September30, 2012 .
Under the Company's 2001 Long-Term Incentives Plan and Directors Stock Plan, up to 14.3 million shares of common stock may be issued by the Company as non-qualified options, incentive stock options, performance units, performance shares, stock appreciation rights and restricted stock. Shares available for future grant or payment under these plans were less than 0.1 million at September30, 2012 .
Options to purchase common stock of the Company have been granted under various incentive plans to directors, officers and other key employees. All of the Company's stock-based incentive plans require options to be granted at prices equal to or above the fair market value of the common stock on the dates the options are granted. The plans provide that the option price for certain options granted under the plans may be paid by the employee in cash, shares of common stock or a combination thereof. Certain option awards provide for accelerated vesting if there is a change in control. Stock options generally expire ten years from the date they are granted and generally vest ratably over three years.
The Company utilizes performance shares, restricted stock and restricted stock units that generally cliff vest at the end of three years. The fair value of performance shares, restricted stock and restricted stock units is estimated using the closing share price on the day of grant. The number of performance shares that will ultimately be issued is based on achievement of performance targets over a three-year period that considers cumulative sales growth and return on sales with an additional potential adjustment up or down depending on the Company's total return to shareowners compared to a group of peer companies.
The Company's stock-based compensation awards are designed to align management's interests with those of the Company's shareowners and to reward outstanding Company performance. The Company has an ongoing share repurchase plan and expects to satisfy share option exercises and stock award issuances from treasury stock.
Stock-based compensation expense is recognized on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period. Total stock-based compensation expense and related income tax benefit included within the Consolidated Statement of Operations for 2012, 2011 and 2010 is as follows: (in millions) 2012 2011 2010 Stock-based compensation expense included in: Cost of sales $ 7 $ 7 $ 7 Selling, general and administrative expenses 17 17 17 Total $ 24 $ 24 $ 24 Income tax benefit $ 8 $ 8 $ 8 71 ROCKWELL COLLINS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) General Option Information The following summarizes the activity of the Company's stock options for 2012: (shares in thousands) Shares Weighted Average Exercise Price Weighted Average Remaining Life (in years) Aggregate Intrinsic Value (in millions) Outstanding at September30, 2011 5,631 $ 42.26 Granted 761 55.03 Exercised (824 ) 27.35 Forfeited or expired (48 ) 56.55 Outstanding at September30, 2012 5,520 $ 46.13 5.5 $ 52 Vested or expected to vest (a) 5,446 $ 46.01 5.5 $ 52 Exercisable at September30, 2012 4,041 $ 42.88 4.4 $ 52 (a) Represents outstanding options reduced by expected forfeitures 2012 2011 2010 Weighted-average fair value per share of options granted $ 13.89 $ 14.77 $ 12.80 Intrinsic value of options exercised (in millions) $ 23 $ 26 $ 52 Tax deduction resulting from intrinsic value of options exercised (in millions) $ 7 $ 8 $ 18 The total fair value of options vested was $10 million , $9 million and $8 million during the years ended September30, 2012 , 2011 and 2010 , respectively. Total unrecognized compensation expense for options that have not vested as of September30, 2012 is $7 million and will be recognized over a weighted average period of 0.8 years .
Stock Option Fair Value Information The Company's determination of fair value of option awards on the date of grant using an option-pricing model is affected by the Company's stock price as well as assumptions regarding a number of subjective variables. These assumptions include, but are not limited to:  the Company's expected stock price volatility, the projected employee stock option exercise term, the expected dividend yield and the risk-free interest rate. Changes in these assumptions can materially affect the estimated value of the stock options.
The fair value of each option granted by the Company was estimated using a binomial lattice pricing model and the following weighted average assumptions: 2012 Grants 2011 Grants 2010 Grants Risk-free interest rate 0.3% - 2.2% 0.3% - 3.9% 2.7 % Expected dividend yield 1.6 % 1.7 % 2.3 % Expected volatility 27.0 % 27.0 % 27.0 % Expected life 8 years 8 years 7 years In 2010 the risk-free interest rate was equal to a single U.S. Treasury yield based upon the period over which employees were expected to hold options. In 2011 the risk-free interest rate selected was changed to reflect a range of U.S. Treasury yields corresponding to anticipated option exercises over the ten year contractual term. A range of risk-free interest rates more closely aligns with the assumptions used in the binomial lattice pricing model. This change did not significantly impact the fair value of options granted.
72 ROCKWELL COLLINS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) The expected life of employee stock options represents the weighted-average period the stock options are expected to remain outstanding. The binomial lattice model assumes that employees' exercise behavior is a function of the option's remaining expected life and the extent to which the option is in-the-money. The binomial lattice model estimates the probability of exercise as a function of these two variables based on the entire history of exercises and forfeitures on all past option grants made by the Company.
Performance Shares, Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units Information The following summarizes the Company's performance shares, restricted stock and restricted stock units for 2012: Performance Shares Restricted Stock Restricted Stock Units (shares in thousands) Shares Weighted Average Grant Date Fair Value Shares Weighted Average Grant Date Fair Value Shares Weighted Average Grant Date Fair Value Nonvested at September30, 2011 655 $ 44.28 152 $ 39.13 187 $ 53.30 Granted 192 59.08   87 55.41 Vested (282 ) 30.63 (92 ) 30.43 (6 ) 30.39 Forfeited (14 ) 54.68 (4 ) 49.12 (7 ) 51.40 Nonvested at September30, 2012 551 $ 54.74 56 $ 52.62 261 $ 54.59 (in millions, remaining life in years) PerformanceShares RestrictedStock RestrictedStockUnits Total unrecognized compensation costs at September30, 2012 $ 9 $  $ 4 Weighted-average life remaining at September30, 2012 1.0 0.1 1.6 Weighted-average fair value per share granted in 2011 $ 55.91 $  $ 57.82 Weighted-average fair value per share granted in 2010 $ 53.18 $ 53.08 $ 53.70 The maximum number of shares of common stock that can be issued in respect of performance shares granted in 2012 based on the achievement of performance targets for fiscal years 2012 through 2014 is approximately 456,000 . The maximum number of shares of common stock that can be issued in respect of performance shares granted in 2011 based on the achievement of performance targets for fiscal years 2011 through 2013 is approximately 442,000 . The number of shares of common stock that will be issued in respect of performance shares granted in 2010 based on the achievement of performance targets for fiscal years 2010 through 2012 is approximately 154,000 .
73 ROCKWELL COLLINS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Earnings Per Share and Diluted Share Equivalents The computation of basic and diluted earnings per share is as follows: (in millions, except per share amounts) 2012 2011 2010 Numerator for basic and diluted earnings per share: Income from continuing operations $ 609 $ 615 $ 557 Income from discontinued operations, net of taxes  19 4 Net income $ 609 $ 634 $ 561 Denominator: Denominator for basic earnings per share  weighted average common shares 145.3 154.2 157.1 Effect of dilutive securities: Stock options 1.1 1.4 1.6 Performance shares, restricted stock and restricted stock units 0.4 0.5 0.5 Dilutive potential common shares 1.5 1.9 2.1 Denominator for diluted earnings per share  adjusted weighted average shares and assumed conversion 146.8 156.1 159.2 Earnings per share: Basic Continuing operations $ 4.19 $ 3.99 $ 3.55 Discontinued operations  0.12 0.02 Basic earnings per share $ 4.19 $ 4.11 $ 3.57 Diluted Continuing operations $ 4.15 $ 3.94 $ 3.50 Discontinued operations  0.12 0.02 Diluted earnings per share $ 4.15 $ 4.06 $ 3.52 The average outstanding diluted shares calculation excludes options with an exercise price that exceeds the average market price of shares during the period. Stock options excluded from the average outstanding diluted shares calculation were 2.2 million , 0.3 million and 0.8 million in 2012 , 2011 and 2010 , respectively.
14.
Company-Funded Research and Development The Company performs R&D activities relating to the development of new products and the improvement of existing products. Company-funded R&D programs are expensed as incurred and included in cost of sales. Company-funded R&D expenditures were $320 million , $355 million and $345 million at September30, 2012 , 2011 and 2010 , respectively.
74 ROCKWELL COLLINS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 15.
Other Income, Net Other income, net consists of the following: (in millions) 2012 2011 2010 Earnings from equity affiliates $ (11 ) $ (13 ) $ (10 ) Interest income (3 ) (5 ) (4 ) Royalty income (4 ) (2 ) (8 ) Pension expense (a)   12 Other (7 ) (8 ) (4 ) Other income, net $ (25 ) $ (28 ) $ (14 ) (a) Included within Other income, net is pension expense from certain legacy pension plans and other obligations that were assumed as part of our spin-off from Rockwell International Corporation. All other pension costs are included within Cost of sales and Selling, general and administrative expenses on the Consolidated Statement of Operations. See Note 11 for additional information relating to pension benefits.
16.
Income Taxes The components of income tax expense from continuing operations are as follows: (in millions) 2012 2011 2010 Current: U.S. federal $ 118 $ 128 $ 144 Non-U.S.
22 16 11 U.S. state and local 3 3 (2 ) Total current 143 147 153 Deferred: U.S. federal 103 83 74 Non-U.S.
(8 )  5 U.S. state and local 10 10 7 Total deferred 105 93 86 Income tax expense $ 248 $ 240 $ 239 Net current deferred income tax benefits (liabilities) consist of the tax effects of temporary differences related to the following: September30 (in millions) 2012 2011 Inventory $ (95 ) $ (49 ) Product warranty costs 38 46 Customer incentives 51 31 Contract reserves 11 14 Compensation and benefits 33 42 Valuation allowance (1 ) (1 ) Other 18 21 Current deferred income taxes, net $ 55 $ 104 75 ROCKWELL COLLINS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Net long-term deferred income tax benefits (liabilities) consist of the tax effects of temporary differences related to the following: September30 (in millions) 2012 2011 Retirement benefits $ 554 $ 537 Intangibles (42 ) (45 ) Property (121 ) (114 ) Stock-based compensation 30 27 Valuation allowance (18 ) (13 ) Other 51 44 Long-term deferred income taxes, net $ 454 $ 436 Current deferred income tax assets and liabilities and long-term deferred income tax assets and liabilities are included in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position as follows: September30 (in millions) 2012 2011 Current deferred income taxes $ 58 $ 106 Other current liabilities (3 ) (2 ) Current deferred income taxes, net $ 55 $ 104 Long-term deferred income taxes $ 455 $ 448 Other liabilities (1 ) (12 ) Long-term deferred income taxes, net $ 454 $ 436 Management believes it is more likely than not that the current and long-term deferred tax assets will be realized through the reduction of future taxable income, except for $19 million of deferred tax assets which have been fully reserved and primarily relate to foreign net operating losses in Sweden and the United Kingdom. Significant factors considered by management in its determination of the probability of the realization of the deferred tax assets include: (a)the historical operating results of the Company ( $1,390 million of U.S. taxable income over the past three years), (b)expectations of future earnings and (c)the extended period of time over which the retirement benefit liabilities will be paid.
The effective income tax rate from continuing operations differed from the U.S. statutory tax rate as detailed below: 2012 2011 2010 Statutory tax rate 35.0 % 35.0 % 35.0 % State and local income taxes 1.3 1.1 0.8 Research and development credit (1.7 ) (4.7 ) (1.2 ) Domestic manufacturing deduction (2.1 ) (1.9 ) (1.1 ) Tax settlements (2.2 ) (0.4 ) (2.4 ) Other (1.4 ) (1.0 ) (1.1 ) Effective income tax rate 28.9 % 28.1 % 30.0 % 76 ROCKWELL COLLINS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Income tax expense from continuing operations was calculated based on the following components of income before income taxes: (in millions) 2012 2011 2010 U.S. income $ 793 $ 778 $ 723 Non-U.S. income 64 77 73 Total $ 857 $ 855 $ 796 The Company's U.S. Federal income tax returns for the tax years ended September 30, 2009 and prior have been audited by the IRS and are closed to further adjustments by the IRS. The IRS is currently auditing the Company's tax returns for the years ended September 30, 2010 and 2011. The Company is also currently under audit in various U.S. states and non-U.S. jurisdictions. The U.S. state and non-U.S. jurisdictions have statutes of limitations generally ranging from 3 to 5 years. The Company believes it has adequately provided for any tax adjustments that may result from the various audits.
No provision has been made as of September30, 2012 for U.S. federal or state, or additional non-U.S. income taxes related to approximately $396 million of undistributed earnings of non-U.S. subsidiaries which have been or are intended to be permanently reinvested. Thus it is not practicable to estimate the amount of tax that might be payable on the undistributed earnings.
The Company had net income tax payments of $208 million , $96 million and $125 million in 2012 , 2011 and 2010 , respectively.
A reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount of unrecognized tax benefits for the years ended September30 is as follows: (in millions) 2012 2011 2010 Beginning balance $ 100 $ 78 $ 98 Additions for tax positions related to the current year 11 22 14 Additions for tax positions of prior years  6 5 Additions for tax positions related to acquisitions   2 Reductions for tax positions of prior years (54 ) (4 ) (21 ) Reductions for tax positions of prior years related to lapse of statute of limitations (2 ) (1 ) (2 ) Reductions for tax positions related to settlements with taxing authorities (13 ) (1 ) (18 ) Ending balance $ 42 $ 100 $ 78 The total amounts of unrecognized tax benefits that, if recognized, would affect the effective income tax rate were $24 million , $57 million and $52 million as of September30, 2012 , 2011 and 2010 , respectively.  Although the timing and outcome of tax settlements are uncertain, it is reasonably possible that during the next 12months, a reduction in unrecognized tax benefits may occur in the range of $0 to $2 million based on the outcome of tax examinations or as a result of the expiration of various statutes of limitations.
The Company includes interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits in income tax expense. The total amount of interest and penalties recognized within Other Liabilities in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position was $2 million and $6 million as of September30, 2012 and 2011 , respectively. The total amount of interest and penalties recorded as an expense or (income) within Income tax expense in the Consolidated Statement of Operations was $(4) million , $1 million and $(3) million for the years ended September30, 2012 , 2011 and 2010 , respectively.
77 ROCKWELL COLLINS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 17.
Fair Value Measurements The FASB defines fair value as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in the principal or most advantageous market for the asset or liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. The FASBs guidance classifies the inputs used to measure fair value into the following hierarchy: Level 1 - quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities Level 2 - quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities in active markets or inputs that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly through market corroboration, for substantially the full term of the financial instrument Level 3 - unobservable inputs based on the Companys own assumptions used to measure assets and liabilities at fair value A financial asset or liabilitys classification within the hierarchy is determined based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement.
The fair value of the Companys financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis as of September30, 2012 and September30, 2011 are as follows: September30, 2012 September30, 2011 (inmillions) FairValue Hierarchy FairValue Asset(Liability) FairValue Asset(Liability) Deferred compensation plan investments Level 1 $ 42 $ 37 Interest rate swap assets Level 2 31 29 Foreign currency forward exchange contract assets Level 2 7 8 Foreign currency forward exchange contract liabilities Level 2 (5 ) (7 ) There were no nonfinancial assets or nonfinancial liabilities recognized at fair value on a nonrecurring basis and there were no transfers between Levels of the fair value hierarchy during 2012 or 2011.
Valuation Techniques The deferred compensation plan investments consist of investments in marketable securities (primarily mutual funds) and the fair value is determined using the market approach based on quoted market prices of identical assets in active markets.
The fair value of the interest rate swaps is determined using the market approach and is calculated by a pricing model with observable market inputs.
The fair value of foreign currency forward exchange contracts is determined using the market approach and is calculated as the value of the quoted forward currency exchange rate less the contract rate multiplied by the notional amount.
As of September30, 2012 , there has not been any impact to the fair value of derivative liabilities due to the Company's own credit risk. Similarly, there has not been any impact to the fair value of derivative assets based on the Company's evaluation of counterparties' credit risks.
78 ROCKWELL COLLINS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) The carrying amounts and fair values of the Companys financial instruments are as follows: Asset (Liability) September30, 2012 September30, 2011 (in millions) Carrying Amount Fair Value Carrying Amount Fair Value Cash and cash equivalents $ 335 $ 335 $ 530 $ 530 Long-term debt (748 ) (837 ) (499 ) (565 ) The fair value of cash and cash equivalents approximates carrying value due to the short-term nature of the instruments and are within Level 1 of the fair value hierarchy. Fair value information for long-term debt is within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy and is based on current market interest rates and estimates of current market conditions for instruments with similar terms, maturities and degree of risk. The carrying amount and fair value of long-term debt excludes the interest rate swaps fair value adjustment. These fair value estimates do not necessarily reflect the amounts the Company would realize in a current market exchange.
18.
Derivative Financial Instruments Interest Rate Swaps The Company manages its exposure to interest rate risk by maintaining an appropriate mix of fixed and variable rate debt, which over time should moderate the costs of debt financing. When considered necessary, the Company may use financial instruments in the form of interest rate swaps to help meet this objective. In January 2010, the Company entered into two interest rate swap contracts (the 2019 Swaps) which expire on July 15, 2019 and effectively converted $150 million of the 2019 Notes to floating rate debt based on six-month LIBOR plus 1.235 percent . On November 20, 2003, the Company entered into two interest rate swap contracts (the 2013 Swaps) which expire on December 1, 2013 and effectively converted $100 million of the 2013 Notes to floating rate debt based on six-month LIBOR less 0.075 percent .
The Company has designated the 2019 and 2013 Swaps (the Swaps) as fair value hedges. At September30, 2012 and September30, 2011 , interest rate swaps were recorded within Other Assets at a fair value of $31 million and $29 million , respectively, offset by a fair value adjustment to Long-term Debt (Note 10) of $31 million and $29 million , respectively. Cash payments or receipts between the Company and the counterparties to the Swaps are recorded as an adjustment to interest expense.
Foreign Currency Forward Exchange Contracts The Company transacts business in various foreign currencies which subjects the Companys cash flows and earnings to exposure related to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. These exposures arise primarily from purchases or sales of products and services from third parties and intercompany transactions. Foreign currency forward exchange contracts provide for the purchase or sale of foreign currencies at specified future dates at specified exchange rates and are used to offset changes in the fair value of certain assets or liabilities or forecasted cash flows resulting from transactions denominated in foreign currencies. As of September30, 2012 and September30, 2011 , the Company had outstanding foreign currency forward exchange contracts with notional amounts of $393 million and $502 million , respectively. These notional values consist primarily of contracts for the European euro, British pound sterling and Japanese yen, and are stated in U.S. dollar equivalents at spot exchange rates at the respective dates.
79 ROCKWELL COLLINS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Fair Value of Derivative Instruments Fair values of derivative instruments in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position as of September30, 2012 and September30, 2011 are as follows: Asset Derivatives (in millions) Classification September30, 2012 September30, 2011 Foreign currency forward exchange contracts Other current assets $ 7 $ 8 Interest rate swaps Other assets 31 29 Total $ 38 $ 37 Liability Derivatives (in millions) Classification September30, 2012 September30, 2011 Foreign currency forward exchange contracts Other current liabilities $ 5 $ 7 The fair values of derivative instruments are presented on a gross basis as the Company does not have any derivative contracts which are subject to master netting arrangements. As of September30, 2012 and September30, 2011 , $0 and $1 million , respectively, of foreign currency forward exchange contracts, classified within Other current assets, were not designated as hedging instruments.
The effect of derivative instruments on the Consolidated Statement of Operations for the fiscal year ended September30 is as follows: Amount of Gain (Loss) (in millions) Location of Gain (Loss) September30, 2012 September30, 2011 Derivatives Designated as Hedging Instruments: Fair Value Hedges Foreign currency forward exchange contracts Cost of sales $ (3 ) $ 2 Interest rate swaps Interest expense 9 10 Cash Flow Hedges Foreign currency forward exchange contracts: Amount of gain recognized in AOCL (effective portion, before deferred tax impact) AOCL $ 2 $ 5 Amount of gain (loss) reclassified from AOCL into income Cost of sales (1 ) 3 Derivatives Not Designated as Hedging Instruments: Foreign currency forward exchange contracts Cost of sales 1  There was no significant impact to the Companys earnings related to the ineffective portion of any hedging instruments during the fiscal year ended September30, 2012 . In addition, there was no significant impact to the Companys earnings when a hedged firm commitment no longer qualified as a fair value hedge or when a hedged forecasted transaction no longer qualified as a cash flow hedge during the fiscal year ended September30, 2012 .
The Company did not have any hedges with credit-risk-related contingent features or that required the posting of collateral as of September30, 2012 . The cash flows from derivative contracts are recorded in operating activities in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows.
80 ROCKWELL COLLINS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Cash flow hedges are designated as fair value hedges once the underlying transaction is recorded on the balance sheet, or approximately 60 days from the maturity date of the hedge. The Company expects to reclassify approximately $2 million of net gains into earnings over the next 12 months. The maximum duration of a foreign currency cash flow hedge contract at September30, 2012 was 94 months.
19.
Guarantees and Indemnifications Product warranty costs Accrued liabilities are recorded to reflect the Companys contractual obligations relating to warranty commitments to customers. Warranty coverage of various lengths and terms is provided to customers depending on standard offerings and negotiated contractual agreements. An estimate for warranty expense is recorded at the time of sale based on the length of the warranty and historical warranty return rates and repair costs.
Changes in the carrying amount of accrued product warranty costs are summarized as follows: September30 (in millions) 2012 2011 2010 Balance at beginning of year $ 148 $ 183 $ 217 Warranty costs incurred (47 ) (52 ) (55 ) Product warranty accrual 46 34 34 Changes in estimates for prior years (21 ) (20 ) (13 ) Foreign currency translation adjustments  3  Balance at September 30 $ 126 $ 148 $ 183 Guarantees The Company provides a parent company guarantee related to various obligations of its 50 percent owned joint venture, Quest Flight Training Limited (Quest). The Company has guaranteed, jointly and severally with Quadrant Group plc (Quadrant), the other joint venture partner, the performance of Quest in relation to its contract with the United Kingdom Ministry of Defence (which expires in 2030) and the performance of certain Quest subcontractors (up to $2 million ). In addition, the Company has also pledged equity shares in Quest to guarantee payment by Quest of a loan agreement executed by Quest. In the event of default on this loan agreement, the lending institution can request that the trustee holding such equity shares surrender them to the lending institution in order to satisfy all amounts then outstanding under the loan agreement. As of September30, 2012 , the outstanding loan balance was approximately $ 5 million . Quadrant has made an identical pledge to guarantee this obligation of Quest.
Should Quest fail to meet its obligations under these agreements, these guarantees may become a liability of the Company. As of September30, 2012 , the Quest guarantees are not reflected on the Companys Consolidated Statement of Financial Position because the Company believes that Quest will meet all of its performance and financial obligations in relation to its contract with the United Kingdom Ministry of Defence and the loan agreement.
Letters of credit The Company has contingent commitments in the form of letters of credit. Outstanding letters of credit are issued by banks on the Companys behalf to support certain contractual obligations to its customers. If the Company fails to meet these contractual obligations, these letters of credit may become liabilities of the Company. Total outstanding letters of credit at September30, 2012 were $ 71 million . These commitments are not reflected as liabilities on the Companys Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.
Indemnifications The Company enters into indemnifications with lenders, counterparties in transactions such as administration of employee benefit plans and other customary indemnifications with third parties in the normal course of business. The following are other than customary indemnifications based on the judgment of management.
81 ROCKWELL COLLINS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) The Company became an independent, publicly held company on June29, 2001, when Rockwell International Corporation (Rockwell), renamed Rockwell Automation Inc., spun off its former avionics and communications business and certain other assets and liabilities of Rockwell by means of a distribution of all the Companys outstanding shares of common stock to the shareowners of Rockwell in a tax-free spin-off (the spin-off). In connection with the spin-off, the Company may be required to indemnify certain insurers against claims made by third parties in connection with the Companys legacy insurance policies.
In connection with agreements for the sale of portions of its business, the Company at times retains various liabilities of a business that relate to events occurring prior to its sale, such as tax, environmental, litigation and employment matters. The Company at times indemnifies the purchaser of a Rockwell Collins business in the event that a third party asserts a claim that relates to a liability retained by the Company.
The Company also provides indemnifications of varying scope and amounts to certain customers against claims of product liability or intellectual property infringement made by third parties arising from the use of Company or customer products or intellectual property. These indemnifications generally require the Company to compensate the other party for certain damages and costs incurred as a result of third party product liability or intellectual property claims arising from these transactions.
The amount the Company could be required to pay under its indemnification agreements is generally limited based on amounts specified in the underlying agreements, or in the case of some agreements, the maximum potential amount of future payments that could be required is not limited. When a potential claim is asserted under these agreements, the Company considers such factors as the degree of probability of an unfavorable outcome and the ability to make a reasonable estimate of the amount of loss. A liability is recorded when a potential claim is both probable and estimable. The nature of these agreements prevents the Company from making a reasonable estimate of the maximum potential amount it could be required to pay should counterparties to these agreements assert a claim; however, the Company currently has no material claims pending related to such agreements.
20.
Contractual Obligations and Other Commitments The following table reflects certain of the Company's non-cancelable contractual commitments as of September30, 2012: Payments Due By Period (in millions) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Thereafter Total Non-cancelable operating leases $ 64 $ 55 $ 48 $ 35 $ 14 $ 33 $ 249 Purchase contracts 50 25 5 5 5 10 100 Long-term debt  200    550 750 Interest on long-term debt 33 28 24 24 24 66 199 Total $ 147 $ 308 $ 77 $ 64 $ 43 $ 659 $ 1,298 Non-cancelable Operating Leases The Company leases certain office and manufacturing facilities as well as certain machinery and equipment under various lease contracts with terms that meet the accounting definition of operating leases. Some leases include renewal options, which permit extensions of the expiration dates at rates approximating fair market rental rates. Rent expense for the years ended September30, 2012 , 2011 and 2010 was $72 million , $71 million and $60 million , respectively. The Company's commitments under these operating leases, in the form of non-cancelable future lease payments, are not reflected as a liability on the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.
Purchase Contracts The Company may enter into purchase contracts with suppliers under which there is a commitment to buy a minimum amount of products or pay a specified amount. These commitments are not reflected as a liability on the Company's Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. Amounts purchased under these agreements for the years ended September30, 2012 , 2011 and 2010 were $43 million , $42 million and $37 million , respectively.
82 ROCKWELL COLLINS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Interest on Long-term Debt Interest payments under long-term debt obligations exclude the potential effects of the related interest rate swap contracts.
21.
Environmental Matters The Company is subject to federal, state and local regulations relating to the discharge of substances into the environment, the disposal of hazardous wastes and other activities affecting the environment that have had and will continue to have an impact on the Companys manufacturing operations. These environmental protection regulations may require the investigation and remediation of environmental impairments at current and previously owned or leased properties. In addition, lawsuits, claims and proceedings have been asserted on occasion against the Company alleging violations of environmental protection regulations, or seeking remediation of alleged environmental impairments, principally at previously owned or leased properties. As of September30, 2012 , the Company is involved in the investigation or remediation of eight sites under these regulations or pursuant to lawsuits asserted by third parties. Management estimates that the total reasonably possible future costs the Company could incur for seven of these sites is not significant. Management estimates that the total reasonably possible future costs the Company could incur from one of these sites to be approximately $ 12 million . The Company has recorded environmental reserves for this site of $ 6 million as of September30, 2012 , which represents managements best estimate of the probable future cost for this site.
To date, compliance with environmental regulations and resolution of environmental claims has been accomplished without material effect on the Companys liquidity and capital resources, competitive position or financial condition. Management believes that expenditures for environmental capital investment and remediation necessary to comply with present regulations governing environmental protection and other expenditures for the resolution of environmental claims will not have a material adverse effect on the Companys business or financial position, but could possibly be material to the results of operations or cash flows of any one quarter.
22.
Legal Matters The Company is subject to various lawsuits, claims and proceedings that have been or may be instituted or asserted against the Company relating to the conduct of the Company's business, including those pertaining to product liability, antitrust, intellectual property, safety and health, exporting and importing, contract, employment and regulatory matters. Although the outcome of these matters cannot be predicted with certainty and some lawsuits, claims or proceedings may be disposed of unfavorably to the Company, management believes the disposition of matters that are pending or asserted are not expected to have a material adverse effect on the Company's business or financial position, but could possibly be material to the results of operations or cash flows of any one quarter.
23.
Restructuring and Asset Impairment Charges, Net During the twelve months ended September 30, 2012, the Company recorded corporate restructuring and asset impairment charges, net totaling $58 million . These charges are comprised of (i) $40 million for employee severance and asset impairment charges, as discussed below (ii) $23 million for customer bankruptcy charges, as discussed in Note 5 and (iii) a $5 million gain related to the sale of a facility in Irvine, California, as discussed in Note 7. The restructuring and asset impairment charges, net are summarized as follows: 83 ROCKWELL COLLINS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Cost of Sales Selling, General and Administrative Expense Other Income, Net Total Employee separation costs $ 33 $ 2 $  $ 35 Asset impairment charges 5   5 Total restructuring and asset impairment charges 38 2  40 Customer bankruptcy charges  23  23 Gain on disposition of property   (5 ) (5 ) Total restructuring and asset impairment charges, net $ 38 $ 25 $ (5 ) $ 58 The employee separation charges primarily result from decisions to realign the Company's European organizational structure to better position the business for long-term growth and to adjust the size of our workforce in preparation for the sequestration impacts on the U.S. defense budgets. As a result of these actions, the Company intends to reduce its workforce by approximately 6 percent . Included in the asset impairment charge is a $4 million write-off of a license agreement included within the Company's Commercial Systems segment after the Company concluded the carrying value of the license agreement was not recoverable.
In September 2011, the Company recorded restructuring charges totaling $27 million . This amount was primarily comprised of non-cash asset impairment charges of $11 million , employee separation costs of $7 million , and $9 million of other costs, primarily attributable to a lease termination. The charges related to decisions to implement certain business realignment and facility rationalization actions in response to the global economic factors that have negatively impacted the Company's Government Systems segment.
During the twelve months ended September30, 2012 the company made cash severance payments of $4 million and $7 million related to the 2012 and 2011 restructuring actions, respectively. In addition, contract and lease termination payments of $6 million related to the 2011 restructuring action were paid. As of September30, 2012 , $31 million of employee separation costs related to the 2012 action remains to be paid in future periods and $3 million of contract and lease termination costs related to the 2011 action remains to be paid in future periods.
24.
Business Segment Information Rockwell Collins designs, produces and supports communications and aviation electronics for military and commercial customers worldwide. The Company has two operating segments consisting of the Government Systems and Commercial Systems businesses.
Government Systems provides avionics, communication products, surface solutions and navigation products to the U.S. Department of Defense, state and local governments, other government agencies, civil agencies, defense contractors and foreign ministries of defense around the world.
Commercial Systems supplies aviation electronics systems, products, and services to customers located throughout the world. The customer base is comprised of OEMs of commercial air transport, business and regional aircraft, commercial airlines and business aircraft operators.
Sales made to the U.S. Government were 38 percent , 43 percent and 45 percent of total sales for the years ended September30, 2012 , 2011 and 2010 , respectively.
The Company evaluates performance and allocates resources based upon, among other considerations, segment operating earnings. The Company's definition of segment operating earnings excludes income taxes, stock-based compensation, unallocated general corporate expenses, interest expense, gains and losses from the disposition of businesses, restructuring and asset impairment charges and other special items as identified by management from time to time. Intersegment sales are not material and have been eliminated. The accounting policies used in preparing the segment information are consistent with the policies described in Note2.
84 ROCKWELL COLLINS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) As discussed in Note 4, the Rollmet product line, formerly included within the Commercial Systems segment, has been accounted for as a discontinued operation and certain prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation.
The sales and results of continuing operations of the Companys operating segments are summarized as follows: (in millions) 2012 2011 2010 Sales: Government Systems $ 2,591 $ 2,813 $ 2,861 Commercial Systems 2,135 1,993 1,770 Total sales $ 4,726 $ 4,806 $ 4,631 Segment operating earnings: Government Systems $ 568 $ 592 $ 606 Commercial Systems 440 381 287 Total segment operating earnings 1,008 973 893 Interest expense (27 ) (19 ) (20 ) Stock-based compensation (24 ) (24 ) (24 ) General corporate, net (42 ) (48 ) (54 ) Restructuring and asset impairment charges, net (58 ) (27 ) 1 Income from continuing operations before income taxes 857 855 796 Income tax expense (248 ) (240 ) (239 ) Income from continuing operations $ 609 $ 615 $ 557 In 2012, the Company recorded $58 million of restructuring and asset impairment charges, net.  This amount includes:  (i) $40 million for the employee severance and asset impairment charges discussed in Note 23 (ii) $23 million for customer bankruptcy charges discussed in Note 5 and (iii) a $5 million gain related to the sale of a facility in Irvine, California, as discusssed in Note 7.
In 2011, the Company recorded restructuring and asset impairment charges totaling $27 million , as discussed in Note 23.
85 ROCKWELL COLLINS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) The following tables summarize the identifiable assets and investments in equity affiliates at September30, 2012, 2011 and 2010 as well as the provision for depreciation and amortization, the amount of capital expenditures for property, and earnings from equity affiliates for each of the three years ended September30, for each of the operating segments and Corporate: (in millions) 2012 2011 2010 Identifiable assets: Government Systems $ 2,113 $ 2,139 $ 2,049 Commercial Systems 2,233 2,110 1,994 Corporate 968 1,140 1,021 Total identifiable assets $ 5,314 $ 5,389 $ 5,064 Investments in equity affiliates: Government Systems $ 19 $ 11 $ 10 Commercial Systems    Total investments in equity affiliates $ 19 $ 11 $ 10 Depreciation and amortization: Government Systems $ 87 $ 76 $ 85 Commercial Systems 87 83 82 Total depreciation and amortization $ 174 $ 159 $ 167 Capital expenditures for property: Government Systems $ 76 $ 81 $ 55 Commercial Systems 62 71 54 Total capital expenditures for property $ 138 $ 152 $ 109 Earnings from equity affiliates: Government Systems $ 11 $ 13 $ 10 Commercial Systems    Total earnings from equity affiliates $ 11 $ 13 $ 10 The Company's operating segments share many common resources, infrastructures and assets in the normal course of business. Certain assets have been allocated between the operating segments primarily based on occupancy or usage, principally property, plant and equipment. Identifiable assets at Corporate consist principally of cash and net deferred income tax assets for all years presented.
86 ROCKWELL COLLINS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) The following table summarizes sales by product category for the years ended September30, 2012, 2011 and 2010: (in millions) 2012 2011 2010 Government Systems product categories: Avionics $ 1,476 $ 1,434 $ 1,389 Communication products 652 698 749 Surface solutions 226 377 408 Navigation products 237 304 315 Government Systems sales 2,591 2,813 2,861 Commercial Systems product categories: Air transport aviation electronics 1,139 1,049 964 Business and regional aviation electronics 996 944 806 Commercial Systems sales 2,135 1,993 1,770 Total sales $ 4,726 $ 4,806 $ 4,631 Beginning in 2011, product category sales for Government Systems are delineated based upon differences in the underlying product technologies and markets served. Government Systems sales for the years ended September 30, 2010 have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation.
The air transport and business and regional aviation electronics product categories are delineated based on the difference in underlying customer base, size of aircraft and markets served. For the years ended September30, 2012 , 2011 and 2010 , product category sales for air transport aviation electronics include revenue from wide-body in-flight entertainment products and services of $ 91 million , $ 119 million and $145 million , respectively. In 2005, the Company announced its decision to cease investing in the wide-body in-flight entertainment product area.
The following table reflects sales for the years ended September30, 2012, 2011 and 2010 by location of our customers and property at September 30, 2012, 2011 and 2010 by geographic region: Sales Property (in millions) 2012 2011 2010 2012 2011 2010 U.S.
(1) $ 3,169 $ 3,356 $ 3,284 $ 680 $ 658 $ 627 Europe 816 848 826 72 77 70 Asia-Pacific 326 267 247 15 12 9 Canada 287 241 166 1 1  Africa / Middle East 65 54 68    Latin America 63 40 40 5 6 1 International $ 1,557 $ 1,450 $ 1,347 $ 93 $ 96 $ 80 Total $ 4,726 $ 4,806 $ 4,631 $ 773 $ 754 $ 707 (1) For the years ended September30, 2012 , 2011 , and 2010 , U.S. sales include revenue from foreign military sales of $162 million , $114 million , and $110 million , respectively.
Sales are attributable to geographic region based on the location of our customers.
87 ROCKWELL COLLINS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 25.
Quarterly Financial Information (Unaudited) Quarterly financial information for the years ended September30, 2012 and 2011 is summarized as follows: 2012 Quarters (in millions, except per share amounts) First Second Third Fourth Total Sales $ 1,094 $ 1,161 $ 1,205 $ 1,266 $ 4,726 Gross profit (total sales less cost of sales) 320 351 359 372 1,402 Income from continuing operations 130 161 166 152 609 Income from discontinued operations, net of taxes      Net income $ 130 $ 161 $ 166 $ 152 $ 609 Earnings per share: Basic Continuing operations $ 0.87 $ 1.10 $ 1.16 $ 1.07 $ 4.19 Discontinued operations      Basic earnings per share $ 0.87 $ 1.10 $ 1.16 $ 1.07 $ 4.19 Diluted Continuing operations $ 0.86 $ 1.09 $ 1.14 $ 1.06 $ 4.15 Discontinued operations      Diluted earnings per share $ 0.86 $ 1.09 $ 1.14 $ 1.06 $ 4.15 Net income in the second quarter of 2012 includes a $19 million income tax benefit related to the favorable resolution of certain tax matters.
Net income in the fourth quarter of 2012 includes $23 million of restructuring and asset impairment charges ( $34 million before income taxes) primarily related to employee separation costs. In addition, net income includes $14 million of customer bankruptcy charges ( $23 million before income taxes) which was recorded in selling, general and administrative expenses.
88 ROCKWELL COLLINS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 2011 Quarters (in millions, except per share amounts) First Second Third Fourth Total Sales $ 1,104 $ 1,216 $ 1,190 $ 1,296 $ 4,806 Gross profit (total sales less cost of sales) 313 352 357 357 1,379 Income from continuing operations 150 150 157 158 615 Income from discontinued operations, net of taxes 1  1 17 19 Net income $ 151 $ 150 $ 158 $ 175 $ 634 Earnings per share: Basic Continuing operations $ 0.96 $ 0.97 $ 1.02 $ 1.03 $ 3.99 Discontinued operations 0.01  0.01 0.11 0.12 Basic earnings per share $ 0.97 $ 0.97 $ 1.03 $ 1.14 $ 4.11 Diluted Continuing operations $ 0.95 $ 0.96 $ 1.01 $ 1.02 $ 3.94 Discontinued operations 0.01   0.11 0.12 Diluted earnings per share $ 0.96 $ 0.96 $ 1.01 $ 1.13 $ 4.06 Net income in the first quarter of 2011 includes a $16 million income tax benefit from the retroactive reinstatement of the Federal Research and Development Tax Credit.
Net income in the fourth quarter of 2011 includes a $17 million gain classified within discontinued operations ( $27 million before income taxes) which related to the sale of the Rollmet business. In addition, net income in the fourth quarter of 2011 includes a $17 million charge ( $27 million before income taxes) resulting from restructuring and asset impairments as described in Note 23. Included within Gross Profit is $26 million of the pre-tax restructuring and asset impairment charges.
Earnings per share amounts are computed independently each quarter. As a result, the sum of each quarter's per share amount may not equal the total per share amount for the respective year.
89 Item 9.
Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure.
None.
Item 9A.
Controls and Procedures.
Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures.
We maintain disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rule13a-15(e)) that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed in our reports filed or submitted under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC's rules and forms, including controls and procedures designed to ensure that such information is accumulated and communicated to our management, including our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. Management necessarily applied its judgment in assessing the costs and benefits of such controls and procedures, which, by their nature, can provide only reasonable assurance regarding management's disclosure control objectives.
We have carried out an evaluation, under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures as of the end of the period covered by this Annual Report (the "Evaluation Date"). Based upon that evaluation, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective at a reasonable assurance level as of the Evaluation Date.
Evaluation of Internal Control Over Financial Reporting Management's report on internal control over financial reporting as of September 30, 2012 is included within Item8 of this Annual Report on Form10-K. The report of Deloitte& Touche LLP on the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting is included within Item8 of this Annual Report on Form10-K.
Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting There were no changes in our internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rule13a-15(f)) that occurred during our last fiscal quarter that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.
90 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm To the Board of Directors and Shareowners of Rockwell Collins, Inc.
We have audited the internal control over financial reporting of Rockwell Collins, Inc. and subsidiaries (the "Company") as of September 28, 2012, based on criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. The Company's management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying Management's Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company's internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.
We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
A company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed by, or under the supervision of, the company's principal executive and principal financial officers, or persons performing similar functions, and effected by the company's board of directors, management, and other personnel to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company's internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1)pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2)provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3)provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Because of the inherent limitations of internal control over financial reporting, including the possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Also, projections of any evaluation of the effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
In our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of September 28, 2012, based on the criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.
We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated financial statements as of and for the year ended September 28, 2012 of the Company and our report dated November13, 2012 expressed an unqualified opinion on those financial statements and financial statement schedule.
/s/ DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP Chicago, Illinois November 13, 2012 91 Item 9B.
Other Information.
None.
PART III Item 10.
Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance.
See the information under the captions Election of Directors, Information as to Nominees for Directors and Continuing Directors and Section16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance in the 2013 Proxy Statement. See also the information with respect to executive officers of the Company under Item4A of PartI.
No nominee for director was selected pursuant to any arrangement or understanding between the nominee and any person other than us pursuant to which such person is or was to be selected as a director or nominee.
The members of the Audit Committee of our board of directors are: ChrisA. Davis, AndrewJ. Policano and David Lilley. The board of directors has determined that all these members are "independent" as defined under applicable SEC and NewYork Stock Exchange rules and are "audit committee financial experts." The Board's affirmative determination with respect to Ms.Davis was based upon her education and more than twenty years in chief financial officer positions of public companies and her extensive audit committee experience. The Board's affirmative determination with respect to Dr.Policano was based upon his education and his extensive audit and finance committee experience. The Board's affirmative determination with respect to Mr.Lilley was based upon his relevant education and experience as an executive officer of a public company in actively supervising financial officers and his audit committee experience.
We have adopted a handbook entitled Rockwell Collins Standards of Business Conduct and we have supporting policies covering standards of business conduct and conflicts of interest (collectively, the "code of ethics"). The code of ethics applies to our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Vice President, Finance& Controller (who serves as our principal accounting officer), as well as to all of our other employees and to the members of our Board of Directors. The code of ethics is publicly available on our website at www.rockwellcollins.com . If we make any amendments to the code of ethics or grant any waiver, including any implicit waiver, from a provision of the code applicable to our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer or principal accounting officer requiring disclosure under applicable SEC rules, we intend to disclose the nature of such amendment or waiver on our website.
Item 11.
Executive Compensation.
See the information under the captions Compensation of Directors, Executive Compensation, Compensation Discussion and Analysis and Compensation Committee Report in the 2013 Proxy Statement.
Item 12.
Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters.
See the information under the captions Voting Securities and Equity Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management in the 2013 Proxy Statement.
92 Equity Compensation Plan Information The following table gives information as of September30, 2012 , about our Common Stock that may be issued upon the exercise of options, warrants and rights under all of our existing equity compensation plans: Plan Category (a) Number Of SecuritiesToBeIssued Upon Exercise Of Outstanding Options, Warrants And Rights (b) Weighted-Average Exercise Price Of Outstanding Options, Warrants And Rights (c) Number Of Securities Remaining Available For Future Issuance Under Equity Compensation Plans (Excluding Securities Reflected In Column(a)) Equity Compensation Plans Approved By Security Holders (1) 6,834,126 (2) $ 46.13 10,887,317 (3)(4) Equity Compensation Plans Not Approved By Security Holders None None None Total 6,834,126 $ 46.13 10,887,317 (1) Consists of the following equity compensation plans: 2001 Stock Option Plan, 2001 Long-Term Incentives Plan, Directors Stock Plan and 2006 Long-Term Incentives Plan.
(2) Includes 1,052,353 performance shares, which is the maximum number of shares that can be issued in the future if maximum performance is achieved under performance agreements granted in November 2010 and 2011. Of these performance shares, 153,863 will be issued in November 2012 based on performance shares granted in November 2009. Also includes 261,433 restricted stock units (RSUs). Such performance shares and RSUs are not included in the weighted average price calculation.
(3) Also includes 3,283,113shares available under our Employee Stock Purchase Plan (ESPP), which allows employees to have withheld up to 15percent of their base compensation toward the purchase of our common stock. Shares are purchased each month by participants at 95percent of the fair market value on the last day of the month pursuant to the ESPP.
(4) Of the 7,604,204shares available for future grant under the 2006 Long-Term Incentives Plan, each share issued pursuant to an award of restricted stock, restricted stock units, performance shares and performance units counts as 2.02shares against this limit in accordance with the terms of the plan.
Item 13.
Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence.
See the information under the caption Corporate Governance; Board of Directors and Committees and Certain Transactions and Other Relationships in the 2013 Proxy Statement.
Item 14.
Principal Accounting Fees and Services.
See the information under the caption Proposal to Approve the Selection of Auditors in the 2013 Proxy Statement.
93 PART IV Item 15.
Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules.
(a) Financial Statements, Financial Statement Schedules and Exhibits.
(1 ) Financial Statements The financial statements are included under Item8 of this Annual Report on Form10-K: Consolidated Statement of Financial Position, as of September 30, 2012 and 2011 Consolidated Statement of Operations, years ended September30, 2012, 2011 and 2010 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows, years ended September30, 2012, 2011 and 2010 Consolidated Statement of Equity and Comprehensive Income, years ended September30, 2012, 2011 and 2010 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm (2 ) Financial Statement Schedule for the years ended September 30, 2012, 2011 and 2010 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm ScheduleIIValuation and Qualifying Accounts Schedules not filed herewith are omitted because of the absence of conditions under which they are required or because the information called for is shown in the financial statements or notes thereto.
(3 ) Exhibits 3-a-1 Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company, as amended, filed as Exhibit3-a-1 to the Company's Form10-K for year ended September30, 2001, is incorporated herein by reference.
3-a-2 Certificate of Merger effecting name change of the Company from "New Rockwell Collins, Inc." to "Rockwell Collins, Inc.", filed as Exhibit3-a-2 to the Company's Form10-K for year ended September30, 2001, is incorporated herein by reference.
3-b-1 By-Laws of the Company, as amended and restated effective September 20, 2012, filed as Exhibit3-b-1 to the Company's Form8-K dated September 20, 2012, is incorporated herein by reference.
4-a-1 Indenture dated as of November1, 2001 between the Company and Citibank, N.A., as Trustee, filed as Exhibit4.b to the Company's Registration Statement on FormS-3 (No.333-72914), is incorporated herein by reference.
4-a-2 Form of certificate for the Company's 4 3 / 4 % Notes due 2013, filed as Exhibit4-a to the Company's current report on Form8-K dated November21, 2003, is incorporated herein by reference.
4-a-3 Form of Supplemental Indenture dated as of December4, 2006 between the Company and The Bank of NewYork Trust Company, N.A. (as incoming trustee), filed as Exhibit4-a-4 to the Company's Form8-K dated November9, 2006, is incorporated herein by reference.
4-a-4 Form of certificate for the Company's 5.25% Notes due July15, 2019, filed as Exhibit4 to the Company's Form8-K dated May1, 2009, is incorporated herein by reference.
4-a-5 Underwriting Agreements, dated November 16, 2011, between the Company and Citigroup Global Markets Inc., Merril Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated and Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, as representatives of the several Underwriters named in Schedule 1 to the Underwriting Agreement, filed as Exhibit 1 to the Company's Form 8-K dated November 16, 2011, is incorporated herein by reference.
4-a-6 Form of certificate for the Company's 3.100% notes due November 15, 2022, filed as Exhibit 4 to the Company's Form 8-K dated November 16, 2011, is incorporated herein by reference.
*10-a-1 The Company's 2001 Long-Term Incentives Plan, as amended, filed as Exhibit10-a-9 to the Company's Form10-K for year ended September30, 2007, is incorporated herein by reference.
*10-a-2 Forms of Stock Option Agreements under the Company's 2001 Long-Term Incentives Plan, filed as Exhibit10-a-2 to the Company's Form10-K for year ended September30, 2001, are incorporated herein by reference.
94 *10-a-3 Form of Restricted Stock Agreement under the Company's 2001 Long-Term Incentives Plan for restricted stock grants to the non-executive Chairman of the Board of Directors, filed as Exhibit10-a-4 to the Company's Form10-K for year ended September30, 2001, is incorporated herein by reference.
*10-a-4 The Company's 2006 Long-Term Incentives Plan, as amended, filed as AppendixA to the Company's Notice and Proxy Statement dated December18, 2009, is incorporated herein by reference.
*10-a-5 The Company's First Amendment to the Amended and Restated 2006 Long-Term Incentives Plan, as amended, filed as Exhibit 10-a-1 to the Company's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2012, is incorporated herein by reference.
*10-a-6 Form of Restricted Stock Unit Award under the Company's 2006 Long-Term Incentives Plan, filed as Exhibit10.1 to the Company's Form8-K dated February7, 2006, is incorporated herein by reference.
*10-a-7 Forms of Stock Option Agreements under the Company's 2006 Long-Term Incentives Plan filed as Exhibit10-a-8 to the Company's Form10-K for year ended September30, 2006, is incorporated herein by reference.
*10-a-8 The Company's 2006 Annual Incentive Compensation Plan for Senior Executives, as amended, filed as Exhibit10-a-11 to the Company's Form10-K for year ended September30, 2007, is incorporated herein by reference.
*10-a-9 Forms of Stock Option Agreements, adopted November20, 2009, under the Company's 2006 Long-Term Incentives Plan, filed as Exhibit10-a-9 to the Company's Form10-K for year ended September30, 2009, is incorporated herein by reference.
*10-b-1 The Company's Directors Stock Plan, adopted by the Company's Board of Directors on June1, 2001 and approved by the Company's shareowners at the 2002 Annual Meeting of Shareowners, filed as Exhibit10.2 to the Company's Registration Statement on Form10 (File No.001-16445) (the "Form10"), is incorporated herein by reference.
*10-b-2 Form of Stock Option Agreement under the Company's Directors Stock Plan, filed as Exhibit10-b-2 to the Company's Form10-K for year ended September30, 2001, is incorporated herein by reference.
*10-b-3 Form of Restricted Stock Agreement under the Company's Directors Stock Plan, filed as Exhibit10-b-3 to the Company's Form10-K for year ended September30, 2001, is incorporated herein by reference.
*10-d-1 The Company's Incentive Compensation Plan, as amended, filed as Exhibit10-d-2 to the Company's Form10-K for year ended September30, 2007, is incorporated herein by reference.
*10-f-1 The Company's Deferred Compensation Plan, as amended, filed as Exhibit10-f-2 to the Company's Form10-K for year ended September30, 2007, is incorporated herein by reference.
*10-f-2 The Company's 2005 Deferred Compensation Plan, as amended and restated, filed as Exhibit 10-f-3 to the company's Form 10-K for year ended September 30, 2010, is incorporated herein by reference.
*10-g-1 The Company's Non-Qualified Savings Plan, as amended, filed as Exhibit10-g-2 to the Company's Form10-K for year ended September30, 2007, is incorporated herein by reference.
*10-g-2 The Company's 2005 Non-Qualified Retirement Savings Plan, as amended, filed as Exhibit 10-g-3 to the Company's Form 10-Q for quarter ended December 31, 2010, is incorporated herein by reference.
*10-h-1 The Company's 2005 Non-Qualified Pension Plan, as amended, filed as Exhibit10-h-1 to the Company's Form10-Q for quarter ended June 30, 2012, is incorporated herein by reference.
*10-h-2 The Company's Non-Qualified Pension Plan, as amended, filed as Exhibit10-h-3 to the Company's Form10-K for the year ended September30, 2008, is incorporated herein by reference.
*10-i-1 The Company's Master Trust, as amended, filed as Exhibit10-i-2 to the Company's Form10-K for year ended September30, 2007, is incorporated herein by reference.
10-k-1 Distribution Agreement dated as of June29, 2001 by and among Rockwell International Corporation, the Company and Rockwell Scientific Company LLC, filed as Exhibit2.1 to the Company's current report on Form8-K dated July11, 2001, is incorporated herein by reference.
10-l-1 Employee Matters Agreement dated as of June29, 2001 by and among Rockwell International Corporation, the Company and Rockwell Scientific Company LLC, filed as Exhibit2.2 to the Company's current report on Form8-K dated July11, 2001, is incorporated herein by reference.
10-m-1 Tax Allocation Agreement dated as of June29, 2001 by and between Rockwell International Corporation and the Company, filed as Exhibit2.3 to the Company's current report on Form8-K dated July11, 2001, is incorporated herein by reference.
95 *10-n-1 Form of Change of Control Agreement between the Company and certain executives of the Company (Three-Year Agreement), as amended, filed as Exhibit10-n-1 to the Company's Form8-K dated April21, 2009, is incorporated herein by reference.
*10-n-2 Schedule identifying executives of the Company who are party to a Change of Control Agreement 10-o-1 Five-Year Credit Agreement dated as of May26, 2011 among the Company, the Banks listed therein, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent, and Citibank, N.A., as Syndication Agent, filed as Exhibit99 to the Company's Form8-K dated May26, 2011, is incorporated herein by reference.
*10-q-7 Forms of Three-Year Performance Share Agreements, adopted on November20, 2009, filed as Exhibit10-q-7 to the Company's Form10-K for year ended September30, 2009, is incorporated herein by reference.
*10-q-8 Forms of Three-Year Performance Share Agreements, adopted on November 14, 2011, filed as Exhibit 10-q-8 to the Company's Form 10-K for year ended September 30, 2011, is incorporated herein by reference.
*10-s-1 Non-Employee Directors' Compensation Summary, filed as Exhibit 10-s-1 to the Company's Form 10-Q for quarter ended June 30, 2012, is incorporated herein by reference.
10-s-2 Letter agreement between the Company and DonaldR. Beall dated March19, 2008, filed as Exhibit10-s-2 to the Company's Form10-Q for quarter ended March31, 2008, is incorporated herein by reference.
10-u-1 Memorandum of Agreement dated April 20, 2011 between the Company and Bombardier, Inc., filed as Exhibit 10-u-1 to the Company's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2011, is incorporated herein by reference.
12 Statement re: Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges.
21 List of subsidiaries of the Company.
23 Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm.
24 Powers of Attorney authorizing certain persons to sign this Annual Report on Form10-K on behalf of certain directors and officers of the Company.
31.1 Section302 Certification of Chief Executive Officer.
31.2 Section302 Certification of Chief Financial Officer.
32.1 Section906 Certification of Chief Executive Officer.
32.2 Section906 Certification of Chief Financial Officer.
101.INS XBRL Instance Document.
101.SCH XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema.
101.CAL XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase.
101.DEF XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase.
101.LAB XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase.
101.PRE XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase.
*  Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.
96 SIGNATURES Pursuant to the requirements of Section13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
ROCKWELL COLLINS, INC.
By /s/ GARY R. CHADICK GaryR. Chadick Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary Dated: November13, 2012 Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below on the 13th day of November 2012 by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities indicated.
/s/ CLAYTON M. JONES Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer (principal executive officer) Clayton M. Jones DONALD R. BEALL* Director ANTHONY J. CARBONE* Director CHRIS A. DAVIS* Director RALPH E. EBERHART* Director DAVID LILLEY* Director ANDREW J. POLICANO* Director CHERYL L. SHAVERS* Director JEFFREY L. TURNER* Director /s/ PATRICK E. ALLEN Senior Vice President and ChiefFinancialOfficer (principalfinancialofficer) PatrickE. Allen /s/ MARSHA A. SCHULTE Vice President, Finance and Controller (principalaccountingofficer) MarshaA. Schulte *By /s/ GARY R. CHADICK Gary R. Chadick, Attorney-in-fact** **  By authority of the powers of attorney filed herewith.
97 REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM To the Board of Directors and Shareowners of Rockwell Collins, Inc.
We have audited the consolidated financial statements of Rockwell Collins, Inc. and subsidiaries (the "Company") as of September 28, 2012 and September 30, 2011, and for each of the three years in the period ended September 28, 2012, and the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of September 28, 2012, and have issued our reports thereon dated November 13, 2012; such consolidated financial statements and reports are included in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended September 28, 2012. Our audits also included the consolidated financial statement schedule of the Company listed in Item 15(a)(2). This consolidated financial statement schedule is the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion based on our audits. In our opinion, such consolidated financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein.
/s/ DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP Chicago, Illinois November 13, 2012 S-1 SCHEDULEII ROCKWELL COLLINS, INC.
VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS For the Years Ended September30, 2012 , 2011 and 2010 (in millions) Description Balance at Beginning of Year Charged to Costs and Expenses Other Deductions (a) Balance at End of Year Year ended September30, 2012: Allowance for doubtful accounts $ 10 $ 30 $  $ (4 ) $ 36 Valuation allowance on deferred tax assets 14 5   19 Year ended September30, 2011: Allowance for doubtful accounts 10 1  (1 ) 10 Valuation allowance on deferred tax assets 15 (1 )   14 Year ended September30, 2010: Allowance for doubtful accounts 11 2  (3 ) 10 Valuation allowance on deferred tax assets 11 2 2 (b)  15 (a) Amounts written off.
(b) Amounts relate to acquisition of DataPath and foreign currency fluctuations for non-U.S. dollar denominated balances.
S-2 EXHIBIT INDEX Exhibit Number Description *10-n-2 Schedule identifying executives of the Company who are party to a Change of Control Agreement.
12 Statement re: Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges.
21 List of subsidiaries of the Company.
23 Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm.
24 Powers of Attorney authorizing certain persons to sign this Annual Report on Form10-K on behalf of certain directors and officers of the Company.
31.1 Section302 Certification of Chief Executive Officer.
31.2 Section302 Certification of Chief Financial Officer.
32.1 Section906 Certification of Chief Executive Officer.
32.2 Section906 Certification of Chief Financial Officer.
101.INS XBRL Instance Document.
101.SCH XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema.
101.CAL XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase.
101.DEF XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase.
101.LAB XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase.
101.PRE XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase.
*  Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.