http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1090872/000091205700002160/0000912057-00-002160.txt
http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1090872/0000912057-00-002160-index.html
5570000000.0
A
1999-10-31
10-K
A_1999-10-31_10-K.txt


ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. 

(UNAUDITED) THE FOLLOWING DISCUSSION SHOULD BE READ IN CONJUNCTION WITH THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES THERETO INCLUDED ELSEWHERE IN THIS ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K. THE FOLLOWING DISCUSSION CONTAINS FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS THAT INVOLVE RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES. WE USE WORDS SUCH AS "ANTICIPATES", "BELIEVES", "PLANS", "EXPECTS", "FUTURE", "INTENDS", "MAY", "WILL", "SHOULD", "ESTIMATES", "PREDICTS", "POTENTIAL", "CONTINUE" AND SIMILAR EXPRESSIONS TO IDENTIFY FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS. OUR ACTUAL RESULTS COULD DIFFER MATERIALLY FROM THE RESULTS CONTEMPLATED BY THESE FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS DUE TO CERTAIN FACTORS, INCLUDING THOSE DISCUSSED BELOW IN "FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT FUTURE RESULTS" AND ELSEWHERE IN THIS ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K. 

46 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. (CONTINUED) OVERVIEW SEPARATION FROM HEWLETT-PACKARD On March 2, 1999, Hewlett-Packard announced a plan to create a separate company, subsequently named Agilent Technologies, that comprised Hewlett-Packard's test and measurement, semiconductor products, healthcare solutions and chemical analysis businesses, related portions of Hewlett-Packard Laboratories, and associated infrastructure. After the completion of our initial public offering in November 1999, Hewlett-Packard owns approximately 84.1% of our outstanding common stock. Hewlett-Packard has also announced its intention to distribute to its stockholders all of its remaining interest in us by the middle of calendar year 2000 (the distribution). Hewlett-Packard and we have entered into various agreements related to certain interim and ongoing relationships between the two companies. For a brief description of these agreements, see Note 11, 'Transactions with Hewlett-Packard,' of the consolidated financial statements included in this report. 

AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES' BUSINESSES We were incorporated in Delaware in May 1999 as a wholly owned subsidiary of Hewlett-Packard. Our businesses historically have been operated as internal units of Hewlett-Packard. In November 1999, Hewlett-Packard transferred to us a majority of the assets and liabilities relating to our businesses and also provided us with cash funding of approximately $1.1 billion. Hewlett-Packard retained some of our assets and liabilities including our accounts receivable and accounts payable, accrued payroll and related items and taxes payable, except deferred taxes, and transferred to us some of the assets and liabilities related to its business, including some of the accounts receivable, accounts payable and other liabilities of Hewlett-Packard Japan. In addition, Hewlett-Packard transferred to us approximately $.5 billion to fund our acquisition of Yokogawa's 25% minority equity ownership of Hewlett-Packard Japan. The effects of these transactions were an increase to cash of approximately $1.6 billion, a decrease to net assets, excluding cash, of approximately $.8 billion and an increase to paid-in capital of approximately $.8 billion. In December 1999, Hewlett-Packard provided us with final cash funding of approximately $.2 billion based on our and Hewlett-Packard's balance sheets as of October 31, 1999. 

We have entered into agreements with Hewlett-Packard under which Hewlett-Packard will provide services to us during a transition period beginning November 1, 1999 (the separation). The agreements relate primarily to building services, information technology services and accounting and finance services. 

Under these agreements, we will reimburse Hewlett-Packard for its cost of the service plus 5%. The transition period varies depending on the agreement but is generally less than two years. Some of the agreements, including those for building services and information technology services, may be extended beyond the initial transition period. If these agreements are extended, we will reimburse Hewlett-Packard at its cost plus 10% for information technology services and most other services and at negotiated market rates for building services. The agreements do not necessarily reflect the costs of obtaining the services from unrelated third parties or of our providing the applicable services ourselves. However, we believe that purchasing these services from Hewlett-Packard provides us with an efficient means of obtaining these services during the transition period. In addition, we will provide some transition services to Hewlett-Packard, for which we will be reimbursed at our cost plus 5%. 

We must also negotiate new agreements on or before the distribution with various third parties as a separate, stand-alone entity. There can be no assurance that the terms we will be able to negotiate for these agreements will be as favorable as those we enjoyed as part of Hewlett-Packard. In addition, as part of Hewlett-Packard, we benefited from various economies of scale including shared global 47 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. (CONTINUED) administrative functions, facilities and volume purchase discounts. We expect that our costs and expenses will increase significantly as a result of the loss of these economies of scale. 

Hewlett-Packard has been and is expected to continue to be a significant customer. In 1999, sales to Hewlett-Packard represented approximately 10% of our total net revenue and approximately 37% of the net revenue of our semiconductor products business. 

BASIS OF PRESENTATION Our consolidated financial statements have been carved out from the consolidated financial statements of Hewlett-Packard using the historical results of operations and historical bases of the assets and liabilities of the Hewlett-Packard businesses that our company comprises. The consolidated financial statements also include allocations to us of certain Hewlett-Packard corporate assets, including pension assets; liabilities, including profit sharing, pension and non-qualified deferred compensation obligations; and expenses, including centralized research and development, legal, accounting, employee benefits, real estate, insurance services, information technology services, treasury and other Hewlett-Packard corporate and infrastructure costs. 

The expense allocations have been determined on bases that Hewlett-Packard and we considered to be a reasonable reflection of the utilization of the services provided to us or the benefit received by us. The expense allocation methods included relative sales, headcount, square footage, transaction processing costs, adjusted operating expenses and others. 

The financial information presented in this Annual Report on Form 10-K is not indicative of our financial position, results of operations or cash flows in the future nor is it necessarily indicative of what our financial position, results of operations or cash flows would have been had we been a separate, stand-alone entity for the periods presented. The financial information presented in this Annual Report on Form 10-K does not reflect the many significant changes that will occur in our funding and operations as a result of our becoming a stand-alone entity, our initial public offering and the distribution. 

1998 RESTRUCTURING During 1998, we committed to transfer the production of eight-inch semiconductor wafers to a third party contractor. A major factor in our decision to transfer this production was our desire to avoid significant and escalating future investments required to remain state-of-the-art in semiconductor manufacturing. We also undertook employee reductions through voluntary severance programs related to this transfer as well as consolidation of some operations and general employee reductions in each of our four business segments. 

Approximately 1,650 employees accepted the voluntary severance incentive packages by the October 31, 1998 deadline. Of these employees, approximately 80% were in manufacturing or other positions included in cost of products and services. We recorded pre-tax charges of approximately $163 million related to these restructuring actions. Of this amount, $138 million was included in cost of products, $7 million was included in research and development expense and $18 million was included in selling, general and administrative expense in the 1998 consolidated statement of earnings. The restructuring costs included approximately $78 million related to employee severance under the voluntary severance incentive plans, of which we had paid approximately $69 million as of October 31, 1999. The restructuring costs also included $85 million related to non-cash asset impairments primarily for equipment. Of the equipment impairment charge, $39 million was attributable to equipment abandoned at the time of the charge, which was written down to its net realizable value. An additional $46 million was attributable to equipment that remained in service for a transition period to facilitate the transfer to the third party contractor. This equipment was written 48 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. (CONTINUED) down to its estimated fair value, including depreciation expense for the value of using the equipment during the transition period and the estimated amount to be realized upon the sale of the used equipment at the end of the transition period. 

In 1999, benefits from the restructuring, which totaled approximately $80 million, were reflected primarily in cost of products and, to a lesser extent, in operating expenses. We believe that future benefits from the restructuring will be more than offset by additional costs that we will incur as we begin to operate as a separate, stand-alone entity. 

CYCLICAL BUSINESS Many of the industries and markets into which we sell our products and services are cyclical, causing a corresponding impact on our financial results. 

Shifts in the semiconductor market, electronics industry and computer industry, as well as rapidly shifting global economic conditions, have had significant impacts on our businesses. Additionally, as a capital equipment provider, our revenue is driven by the capital expenditure budgets and spending patterns of our customers who often delay or accelerate purchases in reaction to variations in their business. We expect some portions of our businesses to remain cyclical in the future. Given that a high proportion of our costs are fixed, variability in revenue as a result of these business cycles could disproportionately affect our quarterly and annual results. 

ECONOMIC CONDITIONS IN ASIA Beginning in the second half of 1998 and continuing into the first half of 1999, our revenue and operating results declined as a result of the downturn in Asian economies, particularly Korea and Japan. Many of our major customers, particularly those in the semiconductor and electronics industries, delayed or canceled purchases of our products. This had a significant impact on us, particularly our test and measurement business. These conditions began to improve in the second half of 1999 and, accordingly, our revenue and operating results have improved. 

IMPACT OF FOREIGN CURRENCIES We sell our products in many countries and a substantial portion of our sales and a portion of our costs and expenses are denominated in foreign currencies, especially in the Japanese yen and the German mark. In 1999 compared to 1998, the U.S. dollar weakened against the Japanese yen, which had a favorable impact on our net revenue growth and an adverse effect on our operating expense growth; the U.S. dollar strengthened against the German mark, which had an adverse effect on our net revenue growth and a favorable impact on our operating expense growth. In 1998 compared to 1997, the U.S. dollar strengthened against the Japanese yen and the German mark. Our currency exposures historically have been hedged as part of Hewlett-Packard's global hedging program, which is designed to minimize exposure to foreign currency fluctuations. We implemented a similar hedging program upon our separation from Hewlett-Packard. 

RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS In June 1998, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities." This statement establishes accounting and reporting standards for derivative instruments and requires recognition of all derivatives as assets or liabilities in our balance sheet and measurement of those instruments at fair value. The statement is effective for fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2000. We will adopt the 49 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. (CONTINUED) standard no later than the first quarter of fiscal year 2001 and we are in the process of determining the impact that adoption will have on our consolidated financial statements. 

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Our results of operations for the years ended October 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997 in dollars and as a percentage of total net revenue follow. 

NET REVENUE Our total net revenue increased 4.8% in 1999 from 1998 and 2.1% in 1998 from 1997. The increase in 1999 from 1998 was the result of a number of factors, including growth in revenue from the communications market, improvement in economic conditions in Asia and strengthening in the semiconductor industry in general. The increase in 1998 from 1997 reflects improvements from our semiconductor products, healthcare solutions and chemical analysis businesses, substantially offset by decreased revenue in our test and measurement business. 

United States revenue increased 3.1% to $3.7 billion in 1999 and 6.6% to $3.6 billion in 1998. International revenue increased 6.2% to $4.6 billion in 1999 and decreased 1.3% to $4.3 billion in 1998. In the last three quarters of 1998 and the first quarter of 1999, economic conditions in Asia adversely affected revenue from sales of our products and services to customers in Japan and Korea. This situation also reduced revenue from other parts of the world. In addition, the global weakness in the 50 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. (CONTINUED) semiconductor industry caused our product revenue to decline in 1998 and into the first half of 1999. These conditions began to improve in the second half of 1999 and, accordingly, our revenue has improved, both within the United States and internationally. In 1999 compared to 1998, revenue from products increased 3.4% while revenue from services increased 12.8%. Product revenue was essentially unchanged in 1998 from 1997 and service revenue grew 12.3% as a result of increases in our installed base, primarily in test and measurement. 

Although service revenue has grown faster than product revenue during the past two years, we do not anticipate that this trend will continue in future periods, as we expect improving economic conditions and a strengthening semiconductor industry to result in stronger growth in product revenue. 

We anticipate that our net revenue will grow at a significantly higher rate in 2000 than the 4.8% revenue growth we achieved in 1999. In addition, we expect revenue levels will normally fluctuate from quarter to quarter with lower levels of revenue anticipated in the first half of 2000 when compared to the second half of 1999. We expect revenue growth in the first half of 2000 to be stronger than revenue growth in the second half of 2000 when compared to the same periods of 1999. This is due in part to the relatively low revenue level in the first half of 1999 which was caused by the economic conditions in Asia and the downturn in the semiconductor industry and the correspondingly higher revenue levels we achieved in the second half of 1999 when these factors improved. 

EARNINGS FROM OPERATIONS Earnings from operations increased 67.6% in 1999 from 1998 and decreased 49.2% in 1998 from 1997. The increase in 1999 was due to higher net revenue combined with cost savings of approximately $80 million as a result of the 1998 restructuring. In 1998, slightly higher net revenue as compared to 1997 was offset by significantly higher costs and expenses, including the charges related to the 1998 restructuring. 

As a percentage of net revenue, cost of products and services decreased 4.0 percentage points in 1999 from 1998 and increased 3.7 percentage points in 1998 from 1997. In 1999, all four of our business segments recorded improvement in cost of products and services as a percentage of net revenue with semiconductor products accounting for the most significant improvement due primarily to cost improvements resulting from the 1998 restructuring. The increase in 1998 was a result of lower volumes and less profitable product mix in the test and measurement business and costs associated with the 1998 restructuring. 

Operating expenses as a percentage of net revenue increased .7 percentage points in 1999 from 1998 and 1.9 percentage points in 1998 from 1997. In 1999, the increase was due to higher expenses, including advertising and product branding expenses related to our becoming an independent company, partially offset by higher net revenue. The increase in 1998 reflects higher expenses partially offset by higher net revenue. 

Research and development expenses increased 5.2% in 1999 compared to 1998 and 7.7% in 1998 compared to 1997. The increases reflect ongoing investments in developing new products and new technologies, primarily in test and measurement and semiconductor products. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased 7.6% in 1999 from 1998 and 7.4% in 1998 from 1997. In 1999, expense reductions resulting from the 1998 restructuring and other cost containment measures were offset by costs, including advertising and product branding expenses, related to our becoming a separate, stand-alone entity. The increase in 1998 reflects the acquisition of Heartstream, as well as increased selling costs related to revenue growth and increased marketing program costs associated with our continued introduction of new products and the expansion of our support capabilities. The growth 51 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. (CONTINUED) rate in operating expenses, exclusive of the 1998 restructuring costs, decreased significantly in the second half of 1998 due to our cost reduction programs that reduced certain variable costs such as travel and discretionary marketing programs. 

Costs related to our operating as a separate, stand-alone entity will include significant incremental expenditures related to advertising and product branding that are expected to continue over the next year. In addition, we expect operating expenses, primarily infrastructure costs, to increase as a result of our separation from Hewlett-Packard. We anticipate that the combined incremental advertising, product branding and infrastructure costs will result in an increase in our operating expenses as a percentage of revenue of at least 1.5 percentage points in 2000 compared to 1999. 

OTHER INCOME (EXPENSE), NET Other income (expense), net, increased $92 million to income of $46 million in 1999 from expense of $46 million in 1998. Included in 1999 were gains of $54 million related to the divestiture of several portions of our businesses in 1999. Included in 1998 was a charge of $37 million related to the write-down of an investment in convertible preferred stock of a medical products company to its fair value because we concluded its impairment was not temporary. This conclusion was based on the medical products company's continuing poor financial performance and recent equity transactions by the company with a third party. 

PROVISION FOR TAXES Our effective tax rate was 35.0% in 1999 and 1998 and 34.0% in 1997. The rate is based on estimates of our earnings before taxes in the various tax jurisdictions in which we operate throughout the world. While changes in our mix of earnings before taxes in these tax jurisdictions can cause our effective tax rate to fluctuate, we currently expect our effective tax rate to remain at 35% in 2000. 

TEST AND MEASUREMENT NET REVENUE Net revenue from our test and measurement business was lower in the first half of 1999 and grew in the second half of 1999, compared to the same periods of 1998, and remained essentially unchanged from the full year of 1998. Net revenue decreased 2.5% in 1998 from 1997. Results in 1998 and the first half of 1999 reflected weak economic conditions in Asia, which represented approximately 31% of test and measurement's total net revenue in 1999 and 1998 compared to approximately 36% in 1997. A slowdown in the semiconductor industry in mid-1998, which was partially caused by the economic conditions in Asia, also reduced our revenue growth. Competitive pressure increased because of these conditions and, in some cases, we granted higher than normal pricing discounts and allowances in 1998 and the first half of 1999. These revenue trends were partially offset by increased sales of communications products and products for development and deployment of higher bandwidth and 52 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. (CONTINUED) optical networks, particularly in the second half of 1999. In addition, service revenue increased 12.0% in 1999 from 1998 and 18.6% in 1998 from 1997. 

EARNINGS FROM OPERATIONS Earnings from operations from our test and measurement business increased 8.3% in 1999 from 1998 and decreased 48.4% in 1998 from 1997. In 1999, the increase resulted from lower cost of products and services partially offset by higher operating expenses. The decrease in 1998 from 1997 reflects a combination of lower net revenue and higher costs and expenses, including the costs of the 1998 restructuring. 

Cost of products and services as a percentage of net revenue decreased 2.0 percentage points in 1999 from 1998 and increased 3.3 percentage points in 1998 from 1997. The decrease in 1999 was due to cost savings resulting from the 1998 restructuring. This decrease was partially offset by the effect of lower volumes of products sold, primarily wireless communication test equipment and automated test equipment, and higher services revenue and the associated higher cost of this revenue. The increase in 1998 was substantially attributable to lower volumes and less profitable product mix, primarily in wireless communications products and automated test equipment. Cost of products in 1998 included restructuring charges for employee severance and higher excess inventory write-offs across all product lines, as a result of the weak economic conditions in Asia and the timing of new product introductions. These charges increased cost of products and services by 1.1 percentage points. 

Operating expenses as a percentage of net revenue increased 1.2 percentage points in 1999 from 1998 and 4.3 percentage points in 1998 from 1997. The increase in 1999 from 1998 was due to slightly lower net revenue combined with higher levels of expense. The increase in 1998 from 1997 was due to a combination of lower net revenue and higher expenses. In 1999, continued savings from cost reduction programs initiated in the second half of 1998 resulted in significant decreases in some components of both research and development and selling, general and administrative expenses. However, these savings were fully offset by costs incurred as part of becoming a separate, stand-alone entity, particularly costs related to advertising and product branding. 

Research and development expense was unchanged in 1999 compared to 1998 and increased 10.0% in 1998 from 1997. The increase in 1998 from 1997 reflects our ongoing investment in new products. Selling, general and administrative expense increased 3.4% in 1999 from 1998 and increased 7.4% in 1998 from 1997. In 1998, our cost reduction programs slowed overall expense growth and significantly decreased some variable operating costs. However, this was partially offset by 1998 restructuring charges for employee severance costs. 

SEMICONDUCTOR PRODUCTS NET REVENUE Net revenue from our semiconductor products business increased 9.4% in 1999 from 1998 and 6.4% in 1998 from 1997. The increase in 1999 was achieved despite the sale of the power amplifier 53 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. (CONTINUED) business in late 1998. If net revenue in 1998 were adjusted to exclude revenue of the power amplifier business, net revenue would have increased by 15.2% in 1999 over 1998. Net revenue growth in 1999 primarily reflects increased shipments of fiber optic products, application specific integrated circuits (ASICs), motion control products, wireless semiconductor products, and high-speed networking products. In 1998, shipments of fiber optics and high-speed networking products grew strongly. In addition, shipments in 1998 of integrated circuits increased significantly over 1997 due to increased sales to Hewlett-Packard. In the second half of 1998, revenue growth slowed due to customer anticipation of the divestiture of the power amplifier business and the decline in the wireless communications semiconductor business in Asia. As a percentage of net revenue for the semiconductor products business, revenue from sales to Hewlett-Packard, consisting primarily of ASICs and motion control products, was 37.0% in 1999, 34.5% in 1998 and 34.2% in 1997. 

We expect projected annual net revenue from sales of precision architecture-reduced instruction set computing (PA-RISC) microprocessors to Hewlett-Packard to decline by approximately $46 million from 1999 to 2000 as Hewlett-Packard purchases these products from an alternate supplier. We currently do not expect to incur any incremental costs related to winding down the microprocessor business. Although we expect that the loss of the revenue associated with the microprocessor business will have a negative impact on our net revenue growth rates in the short term, we believe this negative impact will not have a material effect on our consolidated results of operations. 

In November 1999, we expanded our existing joint venture relationship with Royal Philips Electronics, N.V and transferred a portion of our light-emitting diode (LED) business into the joint venture. LEDs are used for various lighting and display purposes. Since we do not have a majority ownership interest in the joint venture, the revenue, costs and expenses of the business transferred to the joint venture will no longer be consolidated in our results. Instead, we will record our portion of the joint venture's net earnings or loss in other income (expense), net. 

EARNINGS FROM OPERATIONS Earnings from operations from our semiconductor products business increased 225.5% in 1999 from 1998 and decreased 286.0% in 1998 from 1997. The increase in 1999 resulted from higher revenue and cost savings from the 1998 restructuring. 

The decrease in 1998 from 1997 occurred despite growth in net revenue and was primarily due to costs incurred for the 1998 restructuring. 

Cost of products as a percentage of net revenue decreased 13.5 percentage points in 1999 from 1998 and increased 9.7 percentage points in 1998 from 1997. 

A substantial portion of the improvement in 1999 was the result of the 1998 restructuring. Decreases in cost of products also resulted from increased volumes in the ASIC business and a more profitable product mix, specifically higher volumes of fiber optic communications products, motion control devices and microprocessors. These improvements were partially offset by a $51 million charge in the third quarter of 1999 related to the write-down of a building that was under construction for the intended purpose of housing manufacturing operations for eight-inch semiconductor wafers. We committed to outsource eight-inch semiconductor wafer production to a third-party contractor in October 1998. The building shell was completed at the time construction was stopped. We sought a semiconductor manufacturing partner to utilize the building for its initial intended use. During 1999, we exhausted these efforts without success. Accordingly, we concluded that the highest fair value for this building is based on selling it for use as an office or general use facility. Therefore, we have written down the carrying value of the facility to the estimated amount to be realized upon the sale of the building shell. The increase in cost of products as a percentage of net revenue in 1998 includes $116 million of restructuring charges. Without 54 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. (CONTINUED) these charges, cost of products as a percentage of net revenue compared to 1997 would have increased primarily as a result of lower ASIC volumes in the second half of 1998. 

Operating expenses as a percentage of net revenue decreased 1.0 percentage point in 1999 from 1998 and increased 1.0 percentage point in 1998 from 1997. 

The decrease in 1999 was primarily the result of higher revenue. The increase in 1998 from 1997 was due to higher expenses, including amounts related to the 1998 restructuring, partially offset by the growth in net revenue. 

Research and development expense increased 10.5% in 1999 from 1998 and 13.7% in 1998 from 1997. The increase in 1999 reflects increased investments in the fast growing fiber optics, high-speed networking, and image and position sensor businesses. Research and development expense increased in 1998 primarily as a result of our efforts to develop high-speed networking products and advanced technology ASICs. Selling, general and administrative expenses were unchanged in 1999 from 1998. Selling, general and administrative expense increased 8.5% in 1998 from 1997, 1.5 percentage points of which reflects the restructuring charge. The remainder of the increase was primarily related to higher sales and marketing expenses. 

We expect future research and development efforts to focus on the areas of wired/wireless communications and imaging. Although we have had significant research and development expenses related to semiconductor process technologies in recent years, we expect to conduct future efforts through joint venture partnering arrangements and through third-party agreements, thereby reducing our research and development expenses in this area. 

HEALTHCARE SOLUTIONS NET REVENUE Net revenue from our healthcare solutions business increased 12.0% in 1999 from 1998 and 10.9% in 1998 from 1997. The increase in 1999 was primarily related to strong sales in the second half of 1999. Growth in net revenue from cardiology products and patient monitoring products was moderated by a decline in net revenue from ultrasound imaging products. In the first half of 1999, internal production constraints resulting from our transition to a new enterprise resource planning system in November 1998 at our Andover, Massachusetts facility contributed to the decline in revenue from the ultrasound imaging products and also affected the growth rate in patient monitoring revenue. The implementation of the new enterprise resource planning system is now complete, and we do not anticipate further problems. In addition, service revenue grew 11.7% in 1999 from 1998. The increase in 1998 from 1997 was driven by strong sales of new patient monitoring systems and cardiology ultrasound imaging products, which were introduced in the second half of 1997. The net revenue growth in 1998 from 1997 was achieved despite the negative impact from international revenue resulting from economic weakness in certain markets in Asia as well as lower healthcare system spending in parts of Europe. 

55 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. (CONTINUED) EARNINGS FROM OPERATIONS Earnings from operations from our healthcare solutions business increased 101.6% in 1999 from 1998 and 106.7% in 1998 from 1997. The increases in both periods were primarily due to higher net revenue, partially offset by higher costs and expenses. 

Cost of products and services as a percentage of net revenue decreased by 1.9 percentage points in 1999 from 1998 and .9 percentage points in 1998 from 1997. The decrease in 1999 was primarily due to lower overhead, lower product installation costs and a more profitable product mix. The decrease in 1998 from 1997 was primarily a result of higher volumes, as product transition issues and manufacturing quality control issues encountered in 1997 were resolved. The effect of higher volumes was partially offset by increased spending related to the implementation of a new worldwide quality system and the development of a new enterprise resource planning system. 

Operating expenses as a percentage of net revenue decreased 1.8 percentage points in 1999 from 1998 and 1.2 percentage points in 1998 from 1997. In 1999, the decrease was due to higher net revenue partially offset by higher expenses. 

The decrease in 1998 from 1997 resulted primarily from higher revenue, partially offset by increased expenses from the inclusion of Heartstream's operations. 

Without the acquisition of Heartstream, operating expenses as a percentage of net revenue would have decreased 2.9 percentage points in 1998 from 1997. 

Research and development expense increased 7.0% in 1999 from 1998 and decreased 3.0% in 1998 from 1997. The 1999 increase was largely a result of our efforts to develop new automatic external defibrillator products. In 1998, research and development expense exclusive of Heartstream decreased significantly due to the lower spending levels required to complete customer commitments after our divestiture of the healthcare information management business. This decrease was partially offset by investments in the development of Heartstream's automatic external defibrillators. Selling, general and administrative expense increased 7.3% in 1999 from 1998 and 11.1% in 1998 from 1997. Costs related to our becoming a separate, stand-alone entity, including advertising and product branding expenses, accounted for approximately half of the increase in 1999 from 1998. Most of the remainder of the increase in 1999 was due to amortization of goodwill associated with the Heartstream acquisition. 

Approximately half of the increase in 1998 from 1997 was due to the acquisition of Heartstream, which resulted in increased headcount in the sales organization and higher goodwill amortization. The remainder was due to increased selling and marketing expenses. 

CHEMICAL ANALYSIS NET REVENUE Net revenue from our chemical analysis business increased 9.4% in 1999 from 1998 and 4.8% in 1998 from 1997. In 1999, the net revenue increase was generated by growth across all product lines and included a 15.2% increase in service revenue. Demand within the pharmaceutical industry was especially strong, leading to increased sales of our liquid chromatography products. In addition, sales to our customers in Asia in the second half of 1999 increased as economic conditions in the region 56 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. (CONTINUED) continue to improve. The increase in 1998 resulted from strong growth in mass spectroscopy, liquid chromatography and consumables, such as columns and supplies. Growth in 1998 was achieved despite decreased revenue from products and services sold to customers in Asia as a whole and Japan in particular as a result of the economic conditions in that region. In 1998, pricing pressures increased as some competitors cut prices worldwide. 

EARNINGS FROM OPERATIONS Earnings from operations from our chemical analysis business increased 49.3% in 1999 from 1998 and decreased 2.6% in 1998 from 1997. The increase in 1999 was due primarily to higher net revenue, partially offset by higher costs and expenses. The decrease in 1998 from 1997 reflects higher operating expenses partially offset by higher revenue. 

Cost of products and services as a percentage of net revenue decreased by 3.6 percentage points in 1999 from 1998 and .7 percentage points in 1998 from 1997. In 1999, the improvement was driven by higher volumes, greater manufacturing efficiencies in our mass spectrometer and liquid chromatography product lines and lower warranty costs as a result of improved product reliability. In addition, greater efficiency within the services business accounted for .8 percentage points of the improvement. The improvement in 1998 was due to revenue growth and higher volumes. In addition, cost structure improvements were achieved as we moved some production processes to contract manufacturers. 

Operating expenses as a percentage of net revenue increased .6 percentage points in 1999 from 1998 and 1.3 percentage points in 1998 from 1997. The increases in both years resulted from greater growth in expenses than in net revenue. 

Research and development expense increased 13.9% in 1999 from 1998 and 9.7% in 1998 from 1997. The increase in 1999 reflects increased investment in our microfluidics program. Microfluidics is the manipulation of minute quantities of fluids. In 1998, research and development investments increased primarily due to joint development efforts in the bio-instrumentation and microfluidics areas. 

Selling, general and administrative expense increased 10.6% in 1999 from 1998 and 8.2% in 1998 from 1997. The increase in both years was primarily due to higher marketing and field selling costs. The increase in 1999 also reflects the costs related to our operating as a separate, stand-alone entity, particularly advertising and product branding expenses. 

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Historically, Hewlett-Packard has managed cash on a centralized basis. Cash receipts associated with our businesses have been transferred to Hewlett-Packard on a daily basis and Hewlett-Packard has provided funds to cover our disbursements. Accordingly, we have reported no cash or cash equivalents at October 31, 1999 and 1998. 

In November and December 1999, Hewlett-Packard made cash payments to us totaling $1.3 billion to fund our working capital and other needs for the first few months of our operations as a separate, stand-alone entity. In addition, Hewlett-Packard transferred approximately $.5 billion to fund our acquisition of Yokogawa's 25% minority equity ownership of Hewlett-Packard Japan. In accordance with our separation agreement with Hewlett-Packard, Hewlett-Packard retained some of our assets and liabilities and Hewlett-Packard transferred to us some of the assets and liabilities related to its business. We expect that our cash balance will initially decline until we begin to collect newly generated accounts receivable. The net proceeds of our initial public offering of $2.1 billion were received in November 1999 and distributed to Hewlett-Packard as a dividend. 

57 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. (CONTINUED) We generated cash from operations of $461 million in 1999 compared to $751 million in 1998 and $965 million in 1997. In all periods, cash from operations is primarily a result of net earnings adjusted for non-cash charges for depreciation and amortization. In addition, lower cash from operations in 1999 resulted from a significant increase in accounts receivable due to particularly strong shipments in October 1999. 

Capital expenditures for property, plant and equipment constituted substantially all of our cash used in investing activities in 1999, 1998 and 1997. The amounts expended were partially offset by proceeds from divestitures and the disposal of excess, unused or retired assets. The high level of capital expenditures in 1997 reflected our investment in our semiconductor products business integrated circuit fabrication capability, which was subsequently replaced with a joint venture arrangement. In addition, we used cash in each period to acquire several small companies. We expect to continue to acquire complementary products or businesses in the future. 

On July 6, 1999, Hewlett-Packard entered into an agreement with Yokogawa Electric Corporation (Yokogawa) to acquire Yokogawa's 25% minority equity ownership of Hewlett-Packard Japan for approximately $521 million. Under the terms of the agreement, Hewlett-Packard will acquire Yokogawa's shares through a series of purchase transactions beginning in January 2000. Under the terms of the Master Separation and Distribution Agreement, we assumed Hewlett-Packard's obligations under the agreement with Yokogawa. In the initial step, which will occur on or before January 31, 2000, we will purchase 10.4% of Hewlett-Packard Japan's shares from Yokogawa. In the second step, which will occur on or before April 30, 2000, we will purchase 10.4% of Hewlett-Packard Japan's shares from Yokogawa. We will purchase the remaining 4.2% of Hewlett-Packard Japan's shares owned by Yokogawa prior to March 31, 2003. In November 1999, Hewlett-Packard provided the funding for this transaction. 

An independent valuation has been performed, which we used to determine the portion of the transaction's purchase price attributable to our businesses and the remaining Hewlett-Packard business and to allocate the purchase price to identifiable assets and liabilities. Of the total purchase price, $375 million is attributable to us, with the remainder attributable to Hewlett-Packard's business; $302 million of the purchase price will be recorded as goodwill, which will be amortized over 10 years. 

Our commitments consist primarily of future minimum lease payments under noncancelable lease agreements, our obligations under the transaction with Yokogawa described above and cash capital contributions required under the terms of a joint venture agreement. In addition, we have entered into agreements with Hewlett-Packard under which Hewlett-Packard will provide services to us during a transition period after the separation. 

Our liquidity is affected by many factors, some of which are based on the normal ongoing operations of our businesses and some of which arise from uncertainties related to global economies. We believe that the cash funding we received from Hewlett-Packard together with cash generated from operations and our unused lines of credit, which total $500 million, will be sufficient to satisfy our working capital, capital expenditure and research and development requirements for the foreseeable future. However, we may require or choose to obtain additional debt or equity financing in the future. We cannot assure that additional financing, if needed, will be available on favorable terms. 

58 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. (CONTINUED) FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT FUTURE RESULTS IF WE DO NOT INTRODUCE NEW PRODUCTS AND SERVICES IN A TIMELY MANNER, OUR PRODUCTS AND SERVICES WILL BECOME OBSOLETE, AND OUR OPERATING RESULTS WILL SUFFER. 

We sell our products in several industries that are characterized by rapid technological changes, frequent new product and service introductions and evolving industry standards. Without the timely introduction of new products, services and enhancements, our products and services will likely become technologically obsolete over time, in which case our revenue and operating results would suffer. The success of our new product and service offerings will depend on several factors, including our ability to: - properly identify customer needs; - price our products competitively; - innovate and develop new technologies and applications; - successfully commercialize new technologies in a timely manner; - manufacture and deliver our products in sufficient volumes on time; and - differentiate our offerings from our competitors' offerings. 

Many of our products are used by our customers to develop, test and manufacture their new products. We therefore must anticipate industry trends and develop products in advance of the commercialization of our customers' products. 

Development of new products generally requires a substantial investment before we can determine the commercial viability of these innovations. If we fail to adequately predict our customers' needs and future activities, we may invest heavily in research and development of products and services that do not lead to significant revenue. For example, the cellular phone industry, which is served by our test and measurement and semiconductor products businesses, currently has several competing communications standards. We may suffer competitive harm if we dedicate resources to developing products and technologies to support a standard that does not achieve broad market acceptance. Our other businesses will encounter similar challenges. In our healthcare business, new technologies that we develop may not be quickly accepted because of industry-specific factors such as the need for regulatory clearance, entrenched patterns of clinical practice, uncertainty over third- party reimbursement and clinicians' fears of malpractice suits. We would suffer competitive harm if we dedicate a significant amount of resources to the development of products and technologies that do not achieve broad market acceptance. 

ECONOMIC, POLITICAL AND OTHER RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH INTERNATIONAL SALES AND OPERATIONS, PARTICULARLY IN KOREA AND JAPAN, COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR SALES. 

Since we sell our products worldwide, our businesses are subject to risks associated with doing business internationally. Our net revenue originating outside the United States, as a percentage of our total net revenue, was 55.2% in 1999, 54.4% in 1998 and 56.3% in 1997. We anticipate that revenue from international operations will continue to represent a substantial portion of our total revenue. In addition, many of our manufacturing facilities and suppliers are located outside the United States. Accordingly, our future results could be harmed by a variety of factors, including: - changes in foreign currency exchange rates; 59 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. (CONTINUED) - changes in a specific country's or region's political or economic conditions, particularly in emerging markets; - trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements; - potentially negative consequences from changes in tax laws; - difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations; - differing labor regulations; - differing protection of intellectual property; and - unexpected changes in regulatory requirements. 

We do a substantial portion of our businesses in Korea and Japan, which have been subject to increased economic instability in recent years. Our businesses declined in 1998 when Korea and Japan experienced economic difficulties. The recurrence of weakness in these economies or weakness in other international economies could have a significant negative effect on our future operating results. 

FLUCTUATIONS IN OUR QUARTERLY OPERATING RESULTS MAY CAUSE OUR STOCK PRICE TO DECLINE. 

Given the nature of the markets in which we participate, we cannot reliably predict future revenue and profitability, and unexpected changes may cause us to adjust our operations. A high proportion of our costs are fixed, due in part to our significant sales, research and development and manufacturing costs. Thus, small declines in revenue could disproportionately affect our operating results in a quarter. For example, when our revenue declined in 1998 as a result of the financial crisis in Asia, it caused significant negative fluctuations in our operating results. Other factors that could affect our quarterly operating results include: - demand for and market acceptance of our products; - competitive pressures resulting in lower selling prices; - adverse changes in the level of economic activity in the United States and other major regions in which we do business; - adverse changes in industries, such as semiconductors and electronics, on which we are particularly dependent; - changes in the relative portion of our revenue represented by our various products and customers; - unanticipated delays or problems in the introduction of new products; - our competitors' announcements of new products, services or technological innovations; - increased costs of raw materials or supplies; - changes in the timing of product orders; and - our inability to forecast revenue in a given quarter from large system sales. 

60 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. (CONTINUED) THE CURRENT TECHNOLOGY LABOR MARKET IS VERY COMPETITIVE, AND OUR BUSINESSES WILL SUFFER IF WE ARE NOT ABLE TO HIRE AND RETAIN SUFFICIENT PERSONNEL. 

Our future success depends partly on the continued service of our key research, engineering, sales, marketing, manufacturing, executive and administrative personnel. If we fail to retain and hire a sufficient number of these personnel, we will not be able to maintain and expand our businesses. 

Competition for qualified personnel in the technology area is intense, and we operate in several geographic locations where labor markets are particularly competitive, including the Silicon Valley region of Northern California where our headquarters and central research and development laboratories are located. 

Although we believe we offer competitive salaries and benefits, certain of our businesses have had to increase spending in order to retain personnel. We also believe we have benefited from Hewlett-Packard's name and reputation as an employer in the past. To the extent we do not obtain similar popular recognition, our ability to attract and retain personnel could be harmed. In addition, some employees of Hewlett-Packard who worked in our businesses in the past may have chosen, or may choose, to remain with Hewlett- Packard in other positions. Until 30 days prior to Hewlett-Packard's distribution of our stock, our employees are generally eligible to apply for and move to positions at Hewlett-Packard without losing their Hewlett-Packard tenure. 

OUR OPERATING RESULTS COULD BE HARMED IF THE INDUSTRIES INTO WHICH WE SELL OUR PRODUCTS ARE IN DOWNWARD CYCLES. 

Many of the industries and markets into which we sell our products are cyclical. For example, in 1998 the operating results of our test and measurement and semiconductor products businesses were harmed by downturns in the semiconductor market. From time to time, the electronics industry has also experienced significant downturns, often in connection with, or in anticipation of, maturing product cycles and declines in general economic conditions. In addition, the computer industry is subject to seasonal and cyclical fluctuations in demand for its products. These industry downturns have been characterized by diminished product demand, excess manufacturing capacity and subsequent accelerated erosion of average selling prices. In addition, the healthcare industry has experienced a significant increase in cost pressures resulting from hospital consolidation and the trend by insurance companies to reduce payments to healthcare providers. Any significant downturn in our customers' markets or in general economic conditions would likely result in a reduction in demand for our products and services and could harm our businesses. 

AS A SEPARATE COMPANY FROM HEWLETT-PACKARD, WE MAY EXPERIENCE INCREASED COSTS RESULTING FROM DECREASED PURCHASING POWER WHICH COULD DECREASE OUR PROFITABILITY. 

Prior to our separation from Hewlett-Packard, our businesses were able to take advantage of Hewlett-Packard's size and purchasing power in procuring goods, services and technology, such as computer software licenses. As a separate, stand-alone entity, we may be unable to obtain goods, services and technology at prices and on terms as favorable as those we obtained prior to the separation. In addition, our patent cross-license agreement with Hewlett- Packard gives us the right to sublicense only a portion of Hewlett-Packard's intellectual property portfolio. As a result, in negotiating patent cross- license agreements with third parties, we may be unable to obtain agreements on terms as favorable as we may have been able to obtain if we had access to Hewlett-Packard's entire intellectual property portfolio. 

61 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. (CONTINUED) OUR SEMICONDUCTOR TECHNOLOGY LICENSING AND SUPPLY ARRANGEMENTS WITH HEWLETT-PACKARD LIMIT OUR ABILITY TO SELL TO OTHER COMPANIES AND COULD RESTRICT OUR ABILITY TO EXPAND OUR BUSINESSES. 

We do not have a license under Hewlett-Packard's patents, patent applications and invention disclosures for, with some exceptions, inkjet products, printer products (including printer supplies, accessories and components), document scanners and computing products. In addition, our ICBD Technology Ownership and License Agreement, which generally covers integrated circuit technology that is used in integrated circuits for Hewlett Packard's printers, scanners and computers, provides that for a period of three years in some cases and 10 years in other cases we are prohibited, with some exceptions, from using this integrated circuit technology for the development and sale of integrated circuits for use in inkjet products, printer products (including printer supplies, accessories and components), document scanners and computing products to third parties other than Hewlett-Packard. 

Although we have entered into a supply agreement for the sale to Hewlett-Packard of these kinds of integrated circuits, the supply agreement does not require Hewlett-Packard to purchase a minimum amount of product from us. In the event that Hewlett-Packard reduces its purchase of our integrated circuits, we would be unable to address this reduction through sales of these kinds of integrated circuits for these types of products to other customers. 

IF DEMAND FOR HEWLETT-PACKARD'S PRINTER, WORKSTATION AND SERVER PRODUCTS DECLINES, OR IF HEWLETT-PACKARD CHOOSES A DIFFERENT SUPPLIER, OUR SEMICONDUCTOR PRODUCTS BUSINESS REVENUE WILL DECLINE SIGNIFICANTLY. 

Historically, some of our businesses have sold products to Hewlett-Packard and have engaged in product development efforts with divisions of Hewlett-Packard. In 1999, Hewlett-Packard accounted for 10% of our total net revenue and 37% of our semiconductor products business' net revenue. 

OUR ABILITY TO COMPETE FOR HEWLETT-PACKARD'S BUSINESS MAY SUFFER AS A RESULT OF OUR SEPARATION DUE TO DECREASED ACCESS TO HEWLETT-PACKARD'S RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY, TECHNOLOGY PLANS, FUTURE PRODUCT FEATURES AND PRODUCT SUPPLY NEEDS. 

In the past, we have benefited from our access to Hewlett-Packard's research and development strategy, technology plans, future product features and product supply needs in competing for Hewlett-Packard's business. If our competitors were to gain better access to Hewlett-Packard as a result of our separation, our competitors may be able to develop products that better meet the future needs of Hewlett-Packard, decreasing the competitiveness of our products. In addition, we have taken advantage of collaborative relationships with some of Hewlett-Packard's businesses. We may not continue to enjoy all of the benefits of these collaborative relationships, particularly if our patent cross-license is not renewed. 

WE FACE AGGRESSIVE COMPETITION IN ALL AREAS OF OUR BUSINESSES, AND IF WE DO NOT COMPETE EFFECTIVELY, OUR BUSINESSES WILL BE HARMED. 

We encounter aggressive competition in all areas of our businesses. Our competitors are numerous, ranging from some of the world's largest corporations, such as General Electric Company, International Business Machines Corporation, Lucent Technologies, Inc. and Siemens AG, to many highly specialized firms, such as Anritsu Corporation, PE Biosystems, Teradyne, Inc. and Waters Corporation, as well as many smaller technology startups. We may not be able to compete effectively with all of these competitors. To remain competitive, we will need to develop new products and periodically enhance our existing products in a timely manner. We anticipate that we may have to adjust prices of many of our products to stay competitive, and we will have to manage financial returns effectively. In addition, new 62 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. (CONTINUED) competitors may emerge, and entire product lines may be threatened by new technologies or market trends which reduce the value of these product lines. 

WE MAY FACE SIGNIFICANT COSTS IN ORDER TO COMPLY WITH LAWS AND REGULATIONS IN THE MANUFACTURE, PROCESSING AND DISTRIBUTION OF CHEMICALS, AND, IF WE FAIL TO COMPLY, WE COULD BE SUBJECT TO CIVIL OR CRIMINAL PENALTIES OR BE PROHIBITED FROM DISTRIBUTING OUR PRODUCTS. 

Some of our chemical analysis business' products are used in conjunction with chemicals whose manufacture, processing and distribution are regulated by the United States Environmental Protection Agency under the Toxic Substances Control Act, and by regulatory bodies in other countries with laws similar to the Toxic Substances Control Act. We must conform the manufacture, processing and distribution of these chemicals to these laws, and adapt to regulatory requirements in all countries as these requirements change. If we fail to comply with these requirements in the manufacture or distribution of our products, then we could be made to pay civil penalties, face criminal prosecution and, in some cases, be prohibited from distributing our products in commerce until the products or component substances are brought into compliance. 

IF WE FAIL TO MAINTAIN SATISFACTORY COMPLIANCE WITH THE FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION'S REGULATIONS, WE MAY BE FORCED TO RECALL PRODUCTS AND CEASE THEIR MANUFACTURE AND DISTRIBUTION, AND WE COULD BE SUBJECT TO CIVIL OR CRIMINAL PENALTIES. 

The medical device products produced by our healthcare solutions business are subject to regulation by the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and similar international agencies. Their regulations govern a wide variety of product activities from design and development to labeling, manufacturing, promotion, sales and distribution. For example, we received a warning letter from the FDA in 1996 alleging non-compliance with the FDA's quality system regulations at one of our facilities. The FDA's quality systems regulation includes elaborate design, testing, control, documentation and other quality assurance requirements. We had to apply considerable resources to address the FDA's concerns. We believe we have resolved the issues identified in the FDA's letter and the FDA has concurred with our assessment, but we cannot assure you that the FDA will not identify other areas of noncompliance. If we fail to maintain satisfactory compliance with the FDA's quality system and other regulations, we may have to recall products and cease their manufacture and distribution. In addition, we could be subject to fines or criminal prosecution. 

In addition, our chemical analysis products are used in the drug design and production processes to test compliance with the Toxic Substances Control Act, the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act and similar regulations. Therefore, we must continually adapt our chemical analysis products to changing regulations. 

COST CONTAINMENT MEASURES IN THE HEALTHCARE INDUSTRY AND THE EFFECT OF ANY HEALTHCARE REFORM COULD HARM OUR PROFITABILITY. 

Our healthcare customers rely on third-party payors, such as government programs and private health insurance plans, to reimburse some or all of the cost of the procedures in which our products are used. The continuing efforts of government, insurance companies and other payors of healthcare costs to contain or reduce those costs could lead our customers to reduce or eliminate purchases of our products. Likewise, legislative proposals to reform healthcare or reduce government programs could result in lower prices for or rejection of our products. The cost containment measures that healthcare 63 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. (CONTINUED) providers are instituting and the effect of any healthcare reform, both in the United States and internationally, could harm our ability to operate profitably. 

ENVIRONMENTAL CONTAMINATION FROM PAST OPERATIONS COULD SUBJECT US TO UNREIMBURSED COSTS AND COULD HARM ON-SITE OPERATIONS AND THE FUTURE USE AND VALUE OF THE PROPERTIES INVOLVED. 

Some of our properties are undergoing remediation by Hewlett-Packard for known subsurface contamination. Hewlett-Packard has agreed to retain the liability for all known subsurface contamination, perform the required remediation and indemnify us with respect to claims arising out of that contamination. The determination of the existence and cost of any additional contamination caused by us could involve costly and time-consuming negotiations and litigation. In addition, Hewlett-Packard will have access to our properties to perform remediation. While Hewlett-Packard has agreed to minimize interference with on-site operations at those properties, remediation activities and subsurface contamination may require us to incur unreimbursed costs and could harm on-site operations and the future use and value of the properties. We cannot assure you that Hewlett-Packard will fulfill its indemnification or remediation obligations. 

We are indemnifying Hewlett-Packard for any liability associated with contamination from past operations at all other properties to be transferred from Hewlett-Packard to us other than those properties currently undergoing remediation by Hewlett-Packard. While we are not aware of any material liabilities associated with existing subsurface contamination at any of those properties, subsurface contamination may exist, and we may be exposed to material liability as a result of the existence of that contamination. 

ENVIRONMENTAL CONTAMINATION CAUSED BY ONGOING OPERATIONS COULD SUBJECT US TO SUBSTANTIAL LIABILITIES IN THE FUTURE. 

We will be responsible for any contamination to our properties arising out of our operations following the separation. Our semiconductor and other manufacturing processes involve the use of substances regulated under various international, federal, state and local laws governing the environment. We may be subject to liabilities for environmental contamination, and these liabilities may be substantial. Although our policy is to apply strict standards for environmental protection at our sites inside and outside the United States, even if not subject to regulations imposed by foreign governments, we may not be aware of all conditions that could subject us to liability. 

WE ARE SUBJECT TO LAWS AND REGULATIONS GOVERNING GOVERNMENT CONTRACTS, AND OUR FAILURE TO ADDRESS THESE LAWS AND REGULATIONS OR COMPLY WITH GOVERNMENT CONTRACTS COULD HARM OUR BUSINESSES. 

We have agreements relating to the sale of our products to government entities and as a result we are subject to various statutes and regulations that apply to companies doing business with the government. The laws governing government contracts differ from the laws governing private contracts. For example, many government contracts contain pricing terms and conditions that are not applicable to private contracts. We are also subject to investigation for compliance with the terms of government contracts. We have received and are complying with formal requests for information by the government regarding our sales of products to some of the government agencies with which we have contracted. Based on our review to date, we have not found that there are any violations of the pertinent laws or regulations relating to these contracts. 

However, these requests may result in legal proceedings against us or liability. 

64 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. (CONTINUED) WE AND OUR CUSTOMERS ARE SUBJECT TO VARIOUS OTHER GOVERNMENTAL REGULATIONS, AND WE MAY INCUR SIGNIFICANT EXPENSES TO COMPLY WITH THESE REGULATIONS AND DEVELOP OUR PRODUCTS TO BE COMPATIBLE WITH THESE REGULATIONS. 

Several of our product lines are subject to other significant international, federal, state and local, health and safety, packaging, product content and labor regulations. These regulations are complex, change frequently and have tended to become more stringent over time. We may be required to incur significant expenses to comply with these regulations or remedy past violations of these regulations. Any failure by us to comply with applicable government regulations could also result in cessation of portions or all of our operations, impositions of fines and restrictions on our ability to carry on or expand our operations. In addition, because many of our products are regulated or sold into regulated industries, we must comply with additional regulations in marketing our products. 

Our products and operations are also often subject to the rules of industrial standards bodies, like the International Standards Organization, as well as regulation of other agencies such as the United States Federal Communications Commission. We also must comply with work safety rules. If we fail to adequately address any of these regulations, our businesses will be harmed. 

THIRD PARTIES MAY CLAIM WE ARE INFRINGING THEIR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY, AND WE COULD SUFFER SIGNIFICANT LITIGATION OR LICENSING EXPENSES OR BE PREVENTED FROM SELLING PRODUCTS. 

Third parties may claim that we are infringing their intellectual property rights, and we may be found to infringe those intellectual property rights. 

While we do not believe that any of our products infringe the valid intellectual property rights of third parties, we may be unaware of intellectual property rights of others that may cover some of our technology, products and services. 

Moreover, in connection with future intellectual property infringement claims, we will only have the benefit of asserting counterclaims based on Hewlett-Packard's intellectual property portfolio in limited circumstances, and we will only be able to offer licenses to Hewlett- Packard's intellectual property in order to resolve claims in limited circumstances. 

Any litigation regarding patents or other intellectual property could be costly and time-consuming, and divert our management and key personnel from our business operations. The complexity of the technology involved and the uncertainty of intellectual property litigation increase these risks. Claims of intellectual property infringement might also require us to enter into costly royalty or license agreements. However, we may not be able to obtain royalty or license agreements on terms acceptable to us, or at all. We also may be subject to significant damages or injunctions against development and sale of certain of our products. 

We often rely on licenses of intellectual property useful for our businesses. We cannot assure you that these licenses will be available in the future on favorable terms or at all. In addition, our position with respect to the negotiation of licenses may change as a result of our separation from Hewlett-Packard. 

THIRD PARTIES MAY INFRINGE OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY, AND WE MAY EXPEND SIGNIFICANT RESOURCES ENFORCING OUR RIGHTS OR SUFFER COMPETITIVE INJURY. 

Our success depends in large part on our proprietary technology. We rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets, confidentiality provisions and licensing arrangements to establish and protect our proprietary rights. If we fail to successfully enforce our intellectual property rights, our competitive position could suffer, which could harm our operating results. 

65 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. (CONTINUED) Our pending patent and trademark registration applications may not be allowed or competitors may challenge the validity or scope of these patent applications or trademark registrations. In addition, our patents may not provide us a significant competitive advantage. 

We may be required to spend significant resources to monitor and police our intellectual property rights. We may not be able to detect infringement and may lose competitive position in the market before we do so. In addition, competitors may design around our technology or develop competing technologies. 

Intellectual property rights may also be unavailable or limited in some foreign countries, which could make it easier for competitors to capture market share. 

IF OUR FACTORIES OR FACILITIES WERE TO EXPERIENCE CATASTROPHIC LOSS DUE TO EARTHQUAKE, OUR OPERATIONS WOULD BE SERIOUSLY HARMED. 

Several of our facilities could be subject to a catastrophic loss caused by earthquake due to their location. We have significant facilities in areas with above average seismic activity, such as our production facilities, headquarters and Agilent Technologies Laboratories in California and our production facilities in Washington and Japan. If any of these facilities were to experience a catastrophic loss, it could disrupt our operations, delay production, shipments and revenue, and result in large expenses to repair or replace the facility. Hewlett-Packard does not carry catastrophic insurance policies which cover potential losses caused by earthquakes. After the distribution, we do not expect to obtain insurance to cover potential losses resulting from earthquakes. 

OUR NEW NAME IS NOT YET RECOGNIZED AS A BRAND IN THE MARKETPLACE, AND AS A RESULT OUR PRODUCT SALES COULD SUFFER. 

The loss of the "Hewlett-Packard" brand name may hinder our ability to establish new relationships. In addition, our current customers, suppliers and partners may react negatively to the separation. In connection with our separation from Hewlett-Packard, we will change the brand name and most of the trademarks and trade names under which we conduct our businesses. This transition to our new name will occur rapidly in the case of some products and over specified periods of time in the case of other products. We believe that sales of our products have benefited from the use of the 'Hewlett-Packard' brand name. In addition, although we believe we have all necessary rights to use the new brand name, our rights to use it may be challenged by others. 

WE CURRENTLY USE HEWLETT-PACKARD'S INFORMATION SYSTEMS, AND WE MUST DEVELOP OUR OWN INFORMATION SYSTEMS COST-EFFECTIVELY. 

We currently use Hewlett-Packard's systems to support our operations, including systems to manage inventory, order processing, human resources, shipping and accounting. We have an agreement with Hewlett-Packard for Hewlett-Packard to continue to provide information services to us for up to the next two years. During this time period, while we are developing our own systems, we will be dependent on Hewlett-Packard for the provision of these information technology services that are critical to running our businesses. 

Many of the systems we currently use are proprietary to Hewlett-Packard and are very complex. These systems have been modified, and are in the process of being further modified, to enable Hewlett-Packard to separately track items related to our businesses. These modifications, however, may result in unexpected system failures or the loss or corruption of data. 

We are in the process of creating our own information systems to eventually replace Hewlett-Packard's systems. We may not be successful in implementing these systems and transitioning data from Hewlett-Packard's systems to ours. We are currently in the process of implementing new enterprise 66 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. (CONTINUED) resource planning software applications to manage some of our information systems. Our chemical analysis and healthcare solutions businesses have each migrated to new enterprise resource planning software, and each experienced disruptions during the transition process that negatively affected their operating results for the period in which the transition occurred. 

Any failure or significant downtime in Hewlett-Packard's or our own information systems could prevent us from taking customer orders, shipping products or billing customers and could harm our businesses. In addition, Hewlett-Packard's and our information systems require the services of employees with extensive knowledge of these information systems and the business environment in which we operate. In order to successfully implement and operate our systems, we must be able to attract and retain a significant number of current Hewlett-Packard employees to our company. If we fail to attract and retain the highly skilled personnel required to implement, maintain, and operate our information systems, our businesses could suffer. 

THE TRANSITIONAL SERVICES BEING PROVIDED TO US BY HEWLETT-PACKARD MAY NOT BE SUFFICIENT TO MEET OUR NEEDS, AND WE MAY PAY INCREASED COSTS TO REPLACE THESE SERVICES AFTER OUR AGREEMENTS WITH HEWLETT-PACKARD EXPIRE. 

Hewlett-Packard has agreed to provide certain transitional services to us, including services related to: - information technology systems; - buildings and facilities; and - finance and accounting. 

These services may not be provided at the same level as when we were part of Hewlett-Packard, and we may not be able to obtain the same benefits. We will also lease and sublease certain office and manufacturing facilities from Hewlett-Packard. These transitional service and leasing arrangements generally have a term of less than two years following the separation. After the expiration of these various arrangements, we may not be able to replace the transitional services or enter into appropriate leases in a timely manner or on terms and conditions, including cost, as favorable as those we will receive from Hewlett-Packard. 

These agreements were made in the context of a parent-subsidiary relationship and were negotiated in the overall context of our separation from Hewlett-Packard. As a result, some of these agreements may have terms and conditions that are less specific than some agreements that are negotiated at arms-length. The prices charged to us under these agreements may be different from the prices that we may be required to pay third parties for similar services or the costs of similar services if we undertake them ourselves. 

SUBSTANTIAL SALES OF COMMON STOCK MAY OCCUR IN CONNECTION WITH THE DISTRIBUTION, WHICH COULD CAUSE OUR STOCK PRICE TO DECLINE. 

Hewlett-Packard has announced that it intends to distribute the approximately 380,000,000 shares of common stock it owns to Hewlett-Packard stockholders by the middle of calendar year 2000. Substantially all of these shares would be eligible for immediate resale in the public market. We are unable to predict whether significant amounts of common stock will be sold in the open market in anticipation of, or following, this distribution. We are also unable to predict whether a sufficient number of buyers would be in the market at that time. 

67 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. (CONTINUED) A portion of Hewlett-Packard's common stock is held by index funds tied to the Standard & Poor's 500 Index, the Dow Jones Industrial Average or other stock indices. If we are not in these indices at the time of Hewlett-Packard's distribution of our common stock, these index funds will be required to sell our stock. Similarly, other institutional stockholders are not allowed by their charters to hold the stock of companies that do not pay dividends. Since we currently do not intend to pay dividends, we expect that these stockholders will sell the shares of our common stock distributed to them. Any sales of substantial amounts of common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales might occur, whether as a result of this distribution or otherwise, could harm the market price of our common stock. 

OUR BUSINESSES MAY SUFFER IF HEWLETT-PACKARD DOES NOT COMPLETE ITS DISTRIBUTION OF OUR COMMON STOCK. 

Hewlett-Packard has announced that it intends to distribute to its stockholders all of our common stock that it owns by the middle of calendar year 2000, although it is not obligated to do so. This distribution may not occur by that time or at all. We may not obtain the benefits we expect as a result of this distribution, including greater strategic focus, increased agility and speed, greater access to capital markets, better incentives for employees, more accountable management and the other benefits. In addition, until this distribution occurs, the risks discussed below relating to Hewlett-Packard's control of us and the potential business conflicts of interest between Hewlett-Packard and us will continue to be relevant to our stockholders. 

WE WILL BE CONTROLLED BY HEWLETT-PACKARD AS LONG AS IT OWNS A MAJORITY OF OUR COMMON STOCK, AND OUR OTHER STOCKHOLDERS WILL BE UNABLE TO AFFECT THE OUTCOME OF STOCKHOLDER VOTING DURING SUCH TIME. 

After the completion of our initial public offering, Hewlett-Packard owns approximately 84.1% of our outstanding common stock. As long as Hewlett-Packard owns a majority of our outstanding common stock, Hewlett-Packard will continue to be able to elect our entire board of directors and to remove any director, with or without cause, without calling a special meeting. Investors in our initial public offering will not be able to affect the outcome of any stockholder vote prior to the planned distribution of our stock to the Hewlett-Packard stockholders. As a result, Hewlett-Packard will control all matters affecting Agilent Technologies, including: - the composition of our board of directors and, through it, any determination with respect to our business direction and policies, including the appointment and removal of officers; - the allocation of business opportunities that may be suitable for us and Hewlett-Packard; - any determinations with respect to mergers or other business combinations; - our acquisition or disposition of assets; - our financing; - changes to the agreements providing for our separation from Hewlett-Packard; - the payment of dividends on our common stock; and - determinations with respect to our tax returns. 

Hewlett-Packard is not prohibited from selling a controlling interest in us to a third party. 

68 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. (CONTINUED) OUR HISTORICAL FINANCIAL INFORMATION MAY NOT BE REPRESENTATIVE OF OUR RESULTS AS A SEPARATE COMPANY. 

The historical financial information we have included has been carved out from Hewlett-Packard's consolidated financial statements and does not reflect what our financial position, results of operations and cash flows would have been, had we been a separate, stand-alone entity during the periods presented. 

Hewlett-Packard did not account for us as, and we were not operated as, a single stand-alone entity for the periods presented. In addition, the historical information is not necessarily indicative of what our results of operations, financial position and cash flows will be in the future. We have not made adjustments to reflect many significant changes that will occur in our cost structure, funding and operations as a result of our separation from Hewlett-Packard, including changes in our employee base, changes in our tax structure, increased costs associated with reduced economies of scale, increased marketing expenses related to establishing a new brand identity and increased costs associated with being a public, stand-alone company. 

For additional information, see our historical consolidated financial statements included in this report and notes thereto. 

WE MAY HAVE POTENTIAL BUSINESS CONFLICTS OF INTEREST WITH HEWLETT-PACKARD WITH RESPECT TO OUR PAST AND ONGOING RELATIONSHIPS THAT COULD HARM OUR BUSINESS OPERATIONS. 

Conflicts of interest may arise between Hewlett-Packard and us in a number of areas relating to our past and ongoing relationships, including: - labor, tax, employee benefit, indemnification and other matters arising from our separation from Hewlett-Packard; - intellectual property matters; - employee retention and recruiting; - major business combinations involving us; - sales or distributions by Hewlett-Packard of all or any portion of its ownership interest in us; - the nature, quality and pricing of transitional services Hewlett-Packard has agreed to provide us; and - business opportunities that may be attractive to both Hewlett-Packard and us. 

Nothing restricts Hewlett-Packard from competing with us other than some restrictions on the use of patents licensed to Hewlett-Packard by us. 

We may not be able to resolve any potential conflicts, and even if we do, the resolution may be less favorable than if we were dealing with an unaffiliated party. The agreements we have entered into with Hewlett-Packard may be amended upon agreement between the parties. While we are controlled by Hewlett-Packard, Hewlett-Packard may be able to require us to agree to amendments to these agreements that may be less favorable to us than the current terms of the agreement. 

OUR DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS MAY HAVE CONFLICTS OF INTEREST BECAUSE OF THEIR OWNERSHIP OF HEWLETT-PACKARD COMMON STOCK. 

Many of our directors and executive officers have a substantial amount of their personal financial portfolios in Hewlett-Packard common stock and options to purchase Hewlett-Packard common stock. Ownership of Hewlett-Packard common stock by our directors and officers after our separation from 69 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. (CONTINUED) Hewlett- Packard could create, or appear to create, potential conflicts of interest when directors and officers are faced with decisions that could have different implications for Hewlett-Packard and us. 

YEAR 2000 The information provided below constitutes a "Year 2000 Readiness Disclosure" for purposes of the Year 2000 Information and Readiness Disclosure Act. 

JANUARY 2000 UPDATE Through the first week of the year 2000, our operations around the world are fully functioning and have not experienced any significant issues associated with the Year 2000 problem (as described below). Our customer-support operations continue to communicate to us that our customers have not reported any consequential Year 2000 incidents. The number of Year 2000-related telephone calls from customers into our response centers and customer-care centers has been much lower than anticipated. At our sites worldwide, we have not experienced any significant Year 2000-related issue that would affect our ability to manufacture, ship, sell or service our products. While we are encouraged by the success of our Year 2000 efforts and that of our customers and partners, we will continue to offer Year 2000 support to customers and monitor our own operations. 

YEAR 2000 READINESS OVERVIEW The Year 2000 problem arises from the use of a two-digit field to identify years in computer programs, e.g., 85=1985, and the assumption of a single century, the 1900s. Any program so created may read, or attempt to read, "00" as the year 1900. There are two other related issues that could also lead to incorrect calculations or failure: some systems' programming assigns special meaning to certain dates and the year 2000 is a leap year. Accordingly, some computer hardware and software, including programs embedded within machinery and parts, will need to be modified prior to the year 2000 to remain functional. Our Year 2000 initiatives are focusing primarily on four areas of potential impact: internal information technology (IT) systems; internal non-IT systems and processes, including services and embedded chips (controllers); our products and services; and the readiness of significant third parties with whom we have material business relationships. In 1997, Hewlett-Packard established a Year 2000 Program Office to coordinate these programs for all of its businesses across the enterprise and to provide a single point of contact for information about Year 2000 programs. The Year 2000 efforts in these areas are led by the Year 2000 general manager who reports directly to Hewlett-Packard's senior management, including Agilent Technologies' chief executive officer. 

The costs associated with our IT internal readiness actions are a combination of incremental external spending and use of existing internal resources. We estimate that over the life of our IT internal readiness effort, we will have spent a total of approximately $90 million over a multi-year period. Based on current estimates, we do not believe that the costs associated with these actions will have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. However, the costs of these actions may vary from quarter to quarter. There can be no assurance, however, that there will not be a delay in, or increased costs associated with the implementation of these changes. In addition, failure to achieve Year 2000 readiness for our internal systems and processes could delay our ability to manufacture and ship products and deliver services, disrupt our customer service and technical support facilities and interrupt customer access to our online products and services. Our inability to perform these functions could have an adverse effect on our future results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. 

70 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. (CONTINUED) INTERNAL IT SYSTEMS Hewlett-Packard established a dedicated Year 2000 IT Internal Readiness Program organization to oversee the worldwide Year 2000 internal IT application and infrastructure readiness activities for all its businesses. The IT Internal Readiness Program organization has provided monthly progress reports to Hewlett-Packard's senior management, including Agilent Technologies' chief executive officer. The IT Internal Readiness Program organization was charged with raising awareness throughout Hewlett-Packard and Agilent Technologies, developing tools and methodologies for addressing the Year 2000 issue, monitoring the development and implementation of business and infrastructure plans to bring non-compliant applications into compliance on a timely basis and identifying and helping resolve high-risk issues. 

We, in conjunction with the Hewlett-Packard Program, approached our Year 2000 IT Internal Readiness Program in four phases: (1) assessment, (2) planning, (3) preparation and (4) implementation. The assessment phase involved taking an inventory of our internal IT applications to prioritize risk, identifying failure dates, defining a solution strategy, estimating repair costs and communicating across and within business units regarding the magnitude of the problem and the need to address Year 2000 issues. The planning phase consisted of identifying the tasks necessary to ensure readiness, scheduling remediation plans for applications and infrastructure and determining resource requirements and allocations. The third phase, preparation, involved readying the development and testing environments and piloting the remediation process. 

Implementation, the last phase, consisted of executing the plans to fix, test and implement critical applications and associated infrastructure, and putting in place contingency plans for processes that have a high impact on our businesses. As of October 31, 1999, the implementation phase was virtually complete. 

INTERNAL NON-IT SYSTEMS AND PROCESSES Non-IT systems include, but are not limited to, those systems that are not commonly thought of as IT systems, such as telephone/PBX systems; fax machines; facilities systems regulating alarms, building access and sprinklers; manufacturing, assembly and distribution equipment; and other miscellaneous systems and processes. Year 2000 readiness for these internal non-IT systems is the responsibility of our worldwide operating units and their respective functions and operations, e.g., facilities, research and development, manufacturing, distribution, logistics, sales and customer support. 

The Year 2000 Program Office developed a comprehensive process to ensure all operations and global business units used a structured and standardized methodology to organize, plan and implement their Year 2000 readiness. 

Hewlett-Packard has also established a Year 2000 Council to coordinate its overall internal readiness and its business continuity planning efforts. The Council is composed of representatives from the major business units within Hewlett-Packard and Agilent Technologies and the critical corporate and infrastructure functions that support them. The Council is chaired by the Year 2000 general manager and has initiated a comprehensive program to ensure timely and consistent business continuity planning by all of Hewlett-Packard's and Agilent Technologies' business units. As of October 31, 1999, virtually all Year 2000 testing, internal mitigation and remediation activities, and business contingency plans have been finished. 

71 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. (CONTINUED) PRODUCT AND CUSTOMER READINESS Our newly introduced products are Year 2000 compliant. However, some hardware and software products currently installed at customer sites will require upgrade or other remediation. Some of these products are used in critical applications in which the impact of non-performance to these customers and other parties could be significant. While we believe our customers are responsible for the Year 2000 readiness of their IT and business environments, we are taking significant steps to enable customers to achieve their readiness goals, thereby preserving our customers' satisfaction and our brand reputation. 

In 1997, Hewlett-Packard established a dedicated Year 2000 Product Compliance Program Office to coordinate worldwide Year 2000 product compliance activities for all its businesses including Agilent Technologies. The Product Compliance Program Office is charged with developing and overseeing implementation of plans to identify all standard products delivered since January 1, 1995; to test those products for compliance; to identify an appropriate path to compliance for non-compliant standard products; and to communicate the status and necessary customer action for non-compliant standard products. 

Agilent Technologies has an Internet website dedicated to communicating Year 2000 issues to a broad customer base. This website includes a product compliance search page that allows customers to look up the status of Agilent Technologies' products they have installed. Most of our key business groups have complementary Internet websites dedicated to similar communication to their specific customers. We are taking additional steps to identify affected customers, raise customer awareness related to non-compliance of some products and help customers to assess their risks. 

All of these efforts are coordinated by the Hewlett-Packard Year 2000 Products and Customers Board of Directors (Board), which is composed of representatives from all of Hewlett-Packard's and Agilent Technologies' product and service business units. The Board works in conjunction with the Product Compliance Program Office to develop and implement Hewlett-Packard's and Agilent Technologies' Year 2000 policies for products and services. The Year 2000 general manager chairs the Board. 

The costs of the readiness program for products are primarily costs of existing internal resources largely absorbed within existing engineering spending levels. These costs were incurred primarily in 1998 and earlier years and were not broken out from other product engineering costs. Past Year 2000 customer satisfaction costs have not been material. Future product readiness costs, including those for customer satisfaction, are not anticipated to be material. We are aware of the potential for legal claims against us and other companies for damages arising from products that are not Year 2000 compliant. We believe that we have taken sufficient communication and customer satisfaction steps so that any claims would not result in material liability for us. 

It is unknown how year 2000 issues may have affected or could affect customer spending patterns. As customers focused their attention and capital budgets on preparing their own businesses for the year 2000, they may have either delayed or accelerated purchases of new applications, services and systems from us. Many of our products run custom software or connect to other systems or peripheral products that may be adversely affected by operating system or hardware upgrades. Although it is possible that these factors may increase or change the timing of demand for certain of our products and services, the increase may be offset by the softening in demand for other offerings. As a result, these events may affect our future revenue and revenue patterns. 

72 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. (CONTINUED) MATERIAL THIRD-PARTY RELATIONSHIPS We developed a Year 2000 process for dealing with our key suppliers, contract manufacturers, distributors, vendors and partners. The process generally involved the following steps: (1) initial supplier survey; (2) risk assessment and contingency planning; (3) follow-up supplier reviews and escalation, if necessary; and where relevant, (4) testing. We received formal responses from substantially all of our critical suppliers. Most of them responded that they expected to address all their significant Year 2000 issues on a timely basis. We regularly reviewed and monitored the suppliers' Year 2000 readiness plans and performance. Based on our risk assessment, selective on-site reviews were performed. Risk analysis was completed with our base of suppliers and contingency plans were developed and tested. All critical surveys and testing efforts were completed by June 1, 1999. In some cases, to meet Year 2000 readiness, we have replaced suppliers or eliminated suppliers from consideration for new business. Where efforts to work with critical suppliers have not been successful, contingency planning generally emphasizes the identification of substitute and second-source suppliers, or in certain situations includes a planned increase in the level of inventory held (e.g., in the case of sole sources). We also contracted with multiple transportation companies to provide product delivery alternatives and we conducted all Electronic Data Interchange (EDI) migration and testing with our supply base. 

We identified and analyzed the most reasonably likely worst-case scenarios for third-party relationships affected by Year 2000. These scenarios included possible infrastructure collapse, the failure of power and water supplies, major transportation disruptions, unforeseen product shortages due to hoarding of products and sub-assemblies and failures of communications and financial systems. Any one of these scenarios could have had a major and material effect on our ability to build our products and deliver services to our customers. 

While we have contingency plans in place to address most issues under our control, an infrastructure problem outside of our control or some combination of several of these problems could have resulted in a delay in product shipments depending on the nature and severity of the problems. We expected that most utilities and service providers would be able to restore service within days although more pervasive system problems involving multiple providers could have lasted two to four weeks or more depending on the complexity of the systems and the effectiveness of their contingency plans. 

Although we have been dedicating substantial resources towards attaining Year 2000 readiness, we cannot assure you that we can successfully identify and address all Year 2000 issues. Even though we are confident we have acted in a timely manner to complete all of our assessments; to identify, develop and implement remediation plans believed to be adequate; and to develop contingency plans believed to be adequate, some problems may not be identified or corrected in time to prevent material adverse consequences to us. 

The discussion above regarding estimated completion dates, costs, risks and other forward-looking statements regarding Year 2000 is based on our best estimates given information that is currently available and is subject to change. As we conclude our Year 2000 initiatives during the remainder of this year, we may discover that actual results will differ materially from these estimates. 

ADOPTION OF THE EURO Hewlett-Packard established a dedicated task force to address the issues raised for all of its businesses, including Agilent Technologies, with the introduction of a European single currency, the Euro. The Euro's initial implementation was effective as of January 1, 1999 and the transition period 73 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. (CONTINUED) will continue through January 1, 2002. Beginning January 1, 1999, product prices in local currencies were converted to Euros as required. 

The introduction and use of the Euro has not materially affected our foreign exchange and hedging activities or our use of derivative instruments. While we will continue to evaluate the impact of the Euro over time, based on currently available information, we do not believe that the introduction of the Euro currency will have a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 
