http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1090872/000104746910010499/a2201423z10-k.htm
http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1090872/000104746910010499/0001047469-10-010499-index.html
9513000000.0
A
2010-10-31
10-K
A_2010-10-31_10-K.txt

 Item 1A and elsewhere in this Form 10-K. 

PART I Item 1. 

Business Overview Agilent Technologies, Inc. ("we", "Agilent" or the "company"), incorporated in Delaware in May 1999, is the world's premier measurement company providing core bio-analytical and electronic measurement solutions to the communications, electronics, life sciences and chemical analysis industries. 

For the fiscal year ended October 31, 2010, we have three business segments comprised of the electronic measurement business, the chemical analysis business and the life sciences business. These current business segments were formed, in the first quarter of 2010, from our then-existing businesses. At that time, the bio-analytical measurement segment which was reported in 2009 was separated into two operating segments life sciences and chemical analysis. The electronic measurement segment recombined electronic measurement and semiconductor and board test, which were reported separately in 2009. 

Our electronic measurement business addresses the communications, electronics and other industries. Our chemical analysis business focuses on the petrochemical, environmental, forensics and food safety industries. Our life sciences business focuses on the pharmaceutical, biotech, academic and government, bio-agriculture and food safety industries. In addition to our three businesses, we conduct centralized research through Agilent Technologies Laboratories ("Agilent Labs"). Each of our businesses, including Agilent Labs, is supported by our global infrastructure organization, which provides shared services in the areas of finance, information technology, legal, workplace services and human resources. 

On May 14, 2010, we acquired Varian, Inc., a leading supplier of scientific instrumentation and associated consumables for life science and applied market applications, for a total cash purchase price of approximately $1.5 billion. Varian's products include analytical instruments, research products and related software, consumable products, accessories and services, as well as vacuum products and related services and accessories. The acquisition broadens Agilent's applications and 3 solutions offerings in both of our chemical analysis and life sciences businesses. It expands Agilent's product portfolio into atomic and molecular spectroscopy; establishes a strong position in nuclear magnetic resonance, imaging and vacuum technologies; and strengthens our consumables portfolio. We financed the purchase price of Varian using the proceeds from our September 2009 offering of senior notes and other existing cash. Varian's cash acquired at completion of the acquisition was approximately $226 million. 

On May 1, 2010, we completed the sale of our Network Solutions Division ("NSD") of our electronic measurement business to JDS Uniphase Corporation. NSD included Agilent's network assurance solutions, network protocol test and drive test products. On February 2, 2010, the company sold Hycor Biomedical Inc., a subsidiary of Agilent and part of our life sciences business, to Linden LLC, a Chicago-based healthcare private equity firm. Hycor is a global manufacturer and marketer of in-vitro diagnostics products. 

We sell our products primarily through direct sales, but we also utilize distributors, resellers, manufacturer's representatives, telesales and electronic commerce. Of our total net revenue of $5.44 billion for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2010, we generated 32 percent in the U.S. and 68 percent outside the U.S. As of October 31, 2010, we employed approximately 18,500 people worldwide. Our primary research and development and manufacturing sites are in California, Colorado and Delaware in the U.S. and in Australia, China, Germany, India, Italy, Japan, Malaysia, Singapore and the United Kingdom. 

The net revenue, income from operations and assets by business segment, as they were structured, as of and for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2010 and for each of the past three years are shown in Note 21, "Segment Information", to our consolidated financial statements, which we incorporate by reference herein. 

Electronic Measurement Business Our electronic measurement business provides electronic measurement instruments and systems, software design tools and related services that are used in the design, development, manufacture, installation, deployment and operation of electronics equipment, and microscopy products. Related services include start-up assistance, instrument productivity and application services and instrument calibration and repair. We also offer customization, consulting and optimization services throughout the customer's product lifecycle. 

Our electronic measurement business employed approximately 8,000 people as of October 31, 2010. Our electronic measurement business generated $2.8 billion in revenue in fiscal 2010, $2.4 billion in revenue in fiscal 2009, and $3.6 billion in revenue in fiscal 2008. 

Electronic Measurement Markets Our electronic measurement products serve the following markets: The Communications Test Market We market our electronic measurement products and services to network equipment manufacturers ("NEMs"), handset manufacturers, and communications service providers, including the component manufacturers within the supply chain for these customers. 

NEMs manufacture and sell products to facilitate the transmission of voice, data and video traffic. The NEMs' customers are the distributors of end-user subscriber devices, including wireless personal 4 communication devices and set-top boxes, as well as communications service providers that deploy and operate the networks and services. To meet their customers' demands, NEMs require test and measurement instruments, systems and solutions for the development, production and installation of each network technology. 

Communications service providers require reliable network equipment that enables new service offerings and allows their networks to operate at ever-increasing capacities. To achieve this, communications service providers require a range of sophisticated test instruments and systems to monitor and evaluate network performance and to identify any sources of communications failure. 

Handset manufacturers require test and measurement products for the design, development, manufacture and repair of mobile handsets. These mobile handsets are used for voice, data and video delivery to individuals who connect wirelessly to the service provider's network. The handset manufacturers' primary customers are large and small service providers. The handset manufacturers require test and measurement products that enable technology development in conformance with the latest communications standards. 

Component manufacturers design, develop and manufacture electronic components and modules used in network equipment and handsets. The component manufacturers require test and measurement products to verify that the performance of their components and modules meet the specifications of their NEM and handset customers. 

The communications test market accounted for approximately 36 percent of revenue from our electronic measurement business in 2010. 

The General Purpose Test Market We market our general purpose test products and services to the electronics industry and other industries with significant electronic content such as the aerospace and defense, computer and semiconductor industries. These electronics and electronics-dependent industries design, develop and manufacture a wide range of products, including those produced in high volumes, such as computers, computer peripherals, electronic components, consumer electronics, enterprise servers, storage networks and automotive electronics. The components, printed circuit assemblies and functional devices for these products may be designed, developed and manufactured by electronic components companies, by original equipment manufacturers or by contract manufacturers. 

For the development and timely commercialization of new technologies, manufacturers require state-of-the-art test instruments, systems and design software in order to design products for efficient and cost-effective manufacturing and to validate product performance in a variety of configurations and environments. 

Customers use our general purpose test solutions in developing and manufacturing a wide variety of electronic components and systems. These customers' test requirements include testing the electrical parameters of digital, radio frequency, and microwave frequency components and assemblies; testing multiple parameters of the printed circuit boards used in almost every electronic device; testing of the final product; and testing of systems containing multiple electronic instruments. For semiconductor and board test applications, customers use our solutions in the design, development, manufacture, installation, deployment, and operation of semiconductor and printed circuit assembly fabrication. 

5 We address the biology, life sciences and material science markets by providing solutions such as the atomic force microscope, nano indenters and scanning electron microscope. For nanotechnology applications, customers use our products to study biological samples at the cellular and molecular level including imaging of DNA and proteins, and to study and research polymers, electrochemistry, and thin films. 

The general purpose test market accounted for approximately 64 percent of revenue from our electronic measurement business in 2010. 

Electronic Measurement Products We divide our electronic measurement products into communications test products and general purpose test products. 

Communications Test Products We sell products and services applicable to a wide range of communications networks and systems including wireless communications and microwave networks, voice, broadband, data, and fiber optic networks. Test products include Electronic Design Automation ("EDA") software, vector and signal analyzers, signal generators, vector network analyzers, one box testers, oscilloscopes, logic and protocol analyzers, and bit-error ratio testers. 

Our wireless communications and microwave network products include radio frequency and microwave test instruments and electronic design automation software tools. These products are required for the design and production of wireless network products, communications links, cellular handsets and base stations. We provide handheld products for the installation and maintenance of wireless networks. Our high-frequency electronic design automation software tools and instruments are used by radio frequency integrated circuit design engineers to model, simulate and analyze communications product designs at the circuit and system levels. Our customers are also applying this technology more frequently to model signal integrity problems in digital design applications as digital speeds continue to increase. 

Our suite of fiber optic test products measure and analyze a wide variety of critical optical and electrical parameters in fiber optic networks and their components. Components which can be tested with Agilent solutions include source lasers, optical amplifiers, filters and other passive components. Test products include optical component analyzers, optical power meters, and optical spectrum analyzers. 

General Purpose Test Products We sell the following types of products into the general purpose test market: general purpose instruments, modular instruments and test software, digital test products, semiconductor and board test solutions, electronics manufacturing test equipment, atomic force microscopes and radio frequency and network surveillance solutions. 

General purpose instruments are used principally by engineers in research and development laboratories, manufacturing, and calibration and service, for measuring voltage, current, frequency, signal pulse width, modulation and other complex electronics measurements. Our general purpose products include spectrum analyzers, network analyzers, signal generators, logic analyzers, digitizing oscilloscopes, voltmeters, multimeters, frequency counters, bench and system power supplies, function generators and waveform synthesizers. 

6 Modular instruments and test software are used by the designers and manufacturers of electronic devices as the building blocks of systems that can be configured for a wide variety of test applications, and changed as needed by a combination of modular hardware and software components. Examples include test systems for aviation systems maintenance and multi-function university labs. 

Our digital test products are used by research and development engineers across a broad range of industries to validate the function and performance of their digital product and system designs. These designs include a wide range of products from simple digital control circuits to complex high speed systems such as computer servers and the latest generation gaming consoles. The test products offered include high-performance oscilloscopes, logic and serial protocol analyzers, logic-signal sources and data generators. 

Our semiconductor and board test solutions enable customers to develop and test state of the art semiconductors, test and inspect printed circuit boards, perform functional testing, and measure position and distance information to the sub-nanometer level. We are one of the leading suppliers of parametric test instruments and systems used primarily to examine semiconductor wafers during the manufacturing process. Our in-circuit test system helps identify quality defects, such as faulty or incorrect parts, that affect electrical performance. Our laser interferometer measurement systems are based on precision optical technology and provide precise position or distance information for dimensional measurements. 

Our atomic force microscopes ("AFM") are high-resolution imaging devices that can resolve features as small as an atomic lattice. An AFM allows researchers to observe and manipulate molecular and atomic level features. Our expanding portfolio of AFM products provides customers with reliable, easy-to-use tools for a wide range of nanotechnology applications, including semiconductor, data storage, polymers, materials science and life science studies. 

Our surveillance systems and subsystems are used by defense and government engineers and technicians to detect, locate and analyze signals of interest. These signals may be transmitted via radio frequency signals or wire lines. The products offered include receivers for detecting radio frequency signals, probes for detecting wire line signals and software that enables the identification and analysis of these signals. 

Electronic Measurement Customers Agilent's electronic measurement customers include contract manufacturers of electronic products, handset manufacturers and network equipment manufacturers who design, develop, manufacture and install network equipment, service providers who implement, maintain and manage communication networks and services, and companies who design, develop, and manufacture semiconductors and semiconductor lithography systems. Our customers use our products to conduct research and development, manufacture, install and maintain radio frequency, microwave frequency, digital, semiconductor, and optical products and systems and conduct nanotechnology research. Many of our customers purchase solutions across several of our major product lines for their different business units. 

We had approximately 15,000 customers for electronic measurement products in fiscal 2010 and no single customer represented greater than 4 percent of net revenue of the electronic measurement business. 

The orders and revenues from many of the electronic measurement markets and product categories are seasonal, traditionally marked by lower business levels in the first quarter of the fiscal 7 year and higher volumes in the fourth quarter of the fiscal year. This seasonality is particularly evident in products that we sell into the aerospace and defense industry, as well as those linked to consumer spending, which includes some of our communications test equipment. The seasonal impact of our business is tempered by the diversity of our electronic measurement products and customers, which span multiple industries. 

Electronic Measurement Sales, Marketing and Support We have a focused sales strategy, using a direct sales force, resellers, manufacturer's representatives and distributors to meet our customers' needs. Our direct sales force is focused on identifying customer needs and recommending solutions involving the effective use and deployment of our equipment, services, systems and capabilities. Some members of our direct sales force focus on global accounts, providing uniform services on a worldwide basis. Others focus on our more complex products such as our high-performance instruments, where customers require strategic consultation. Our sales force also engages with the contract manufacturer market by collaborating with original equipment manufacturers to specify our test equipment for contract manufacturer test applications, as well as marketing to contract manufacturers directly. 

Our direct sales force consists of field engineers and systems engineers who have in-depth knowledge of the customers' business and technology needs. Our systems engineers provide a combination of consulting, systems integration and application and software engineering services and are instrumental in all stages of the sale, implementation and support of our complex systems and solutions. 

To complement our direct sales force we have agreements with many channel partners around the world. These partners, including resellers, manufacturer's representatives, and distributors, serve Agilent's customers across a number of product lines and provide the same level of service and support expected from our direct channel. Consistent with our channel strategy, orders through partners are expanding at a faster rate than overall orders. Lower dollar transactions can also be served by our tele-sales and electronic commerce channels. 

Our products typically come with standard warranties, and extended warranties are available at additional cost. 

Electronic Measurement Manufacturing We concentrate our electronic measurement manufacturing efforts primarily on final assembly and test of our products. To maximize our productivity and our ability to respond to market conditions, we use contract manufacturers for the production of printed circuit boards, sheet metal fabrication, metal die-casting, plastic molding and standard electronic components. We also manufacture proprietary devices and assemblies in our own fabrication facilities for competitive advantage. We have manufacturing facilities in Arizona, California and Colorado in the U.S. Outside of the U.S. we have manufacturing facilities in China, Germany, Japan, Malaysia and Switzerland. 

We generally only manufacture products when we have received firm orders for delivery and do not generally hold large stocks of finished inventory. 

Electronic Measurement Competition The market for electronic measurement equipment is highly competitive. Our electronic measurement business competes with a number of significant competitors in all our major product categories and across our targeted industries. In the communications test market our primary 8 competitors are Aeroflex Incorporated, Anritsu Corporation, Ansoft Corporation (a subsidiary of Ansys Corporation), Applied Wave Research, Inc., EXFO Electro-Optical Engineering, Inc., Rohde & Schwartz GmbH & Co. KG, Spirent plc and Tektronix, Inc. (a subsidiary of Danaher Corporation). In the general purpose test market, we compete against companies such as Aeroflex Incorporated, Bruker Corporation, Fluke Corporation (a subsidiary of Danaher Corporation), LeCroy Corporation, National Instruments Corporation, Rohde & Schwartz GmbH & Co. KG, Tektronix, Inc. (a subsidiary of Danaher Corporation), Teradyne, Inc., Test Research Inc., and Zygo Corporation. 

Our electronic measurement business offers a wide range of products, and these products compete primarily on the basis of product quality and functionality, as well as performance and reliability. 

Chemical Analysis Business Our chemical analysis business provides application-focused solutions that include instruments, software, consumables and services that enable customers to identify, quantify and analyze the physical and chemical properties of substances and products. Our key product categories in chemical analysis include: gas chromatography, mass spectrometry, spectroscopy, vacuum technology, and consumables and services. 

We employed approximately 4,000 people as of October 31, 2010 in our chemical analysis business. This business generated revenue of $1.2 billion in fiscal 2010, $0.8 billion in fiscal 2009 and $0.9 billion in fiscal 2008. 

Chemical Analysis Markets Within chemical analysis, we focus primarily on the following markets: The Chemical & Energy Testing Market. 

The natural gas and petroleum refining markets use our products to measure and control the quality of their finished products and to verify the environmental safety of their operations. Petroleum refiners use our measurement solutions to analyze crude oil composition, perform raw material analysis, verify and improve refining processes and ensure the overall quality of gasoline, fuels, lubricants and other products. Our solutions are also used in the development, manufacturing and quality control of fine chemicals. 

The Environmental Testing Market. 

Our instruments, software and workflow solutions are used by the environmental market for applications such as laboratory and field analysis of chemical pollutants in air, water, soil and solid waste. Environmental industry customers include all levels of government, the industrial and manufacturing sectors, engineering and consulting companies, commercial testing laboratories and colleges and universities. 

The Forensics & Drug Testing Market. 

Drug testing and forensics laboratories use our instruments, software and workflow solutions for applications such as the analysis of evidence associated with crime, screening athletes for performance enhancing drugs, analyzing samples for recreational drugs, or with the detection and identification of biological and chemical warfare agents. This instrumentation is either used in static or mobile laboratories. Customers include local, state, federal, and international law enforcement agencies and health laboratories. 

The Food Testing Market. 

Our instruments, software, and workflow solutions are used throughout the food production chain, including incoming inspection, new product development, quality control and assurance, and packaging. For example, our mass spectrometer portfolio, including triple quad liquid chromatography mass spectrometers, is used to analyze contaminants and residual 9 pesticides in food. There is a significant food safety market involved in analyzing food for pathogen contamination, accurate verification of species type and evidence of genetically modified content. This testing is primarily done via PCR amplification of nucleic acid followed by electrophoresis, real time fluorescent or microarray detection. Additionally, bioagriculture industries seek to improve crops and foods by conducting research on these organisms, as well as testing for genetically modified content, using microarray and microfluidics solutions. 

Chemical Analysis Products A key factor in all of our chemical analysis markets is the need for new products that increase customer productivity and provide high quality data that enable decision-making by our customers. Our key product segments include: Gas Chromatography Products Agilent is the world's leading provider of gas chromatographs, both laboratory and portable models. A gas chromatograph ("GC") is used to separate any gas, liquid or solid that can be vaporized and then detect the molecules present to determine their identity and quantity. Agilent provides custom or standard analyzers configured for specific chemical analysis applications, such as detailed speciation of a complex hydrocarbon stream, calculation of gas calorific values in the field, or analysis of a new bio-fuel formulation. We also offer related software, accessories and consumable products for these and other similar instruments. 

Mass Spectrometry Products Mass spectrometry ("MS") is a technique for analyzing the individual chemical components of substances by ionizing them and determining their mass-to-charge ratios. Our MS products incorporate various technologies for measuring mass, including single-quadrupole, triple-quadrupole, and ion trap mass spectrometers. We combine our mass spectrometers with other instruments to create high-performance instruments such as gas chromatograph mass spectrometers ("GC/MS"), and inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometers ("ICP-MS"). We also offer related software, accessories and consumable products for these and other similar instruments. 

Spectroscopy Products Spectroscopy is a technique for analyzing the individual chemical components of substances based on the absorption or emission of electromagnetic radiation of specific wavelengths of light. Our spectroscopy instruments include atomic absorption ("AA") spectrometers, inductively coupled plasma-optical emissions spectrometers ("ICP-OES"), inductively coupled plasma-mass spectrometers ("ICP-MS"), fluorescence spectrophotometers, ultraviolet-visible ("UV-Vis") spectrophotometers, Fourier Transform infrared ("FT-IR") spectrophotometers, near-infrared ("NIR") spectrophotometers, Raman spectrometers and sample automation products. We also offer related software, accessories and consumable products for these and other similar instruments. 

Vacuum Technology Products Our vacuum technologies products are used to create, control, measure and test vacuum environments in life science, industrial and scientific applications where ultra-clean, high-vacuum environments are needed. This business was acquired in connection with our acquisition of Varian in 2010. Vacuum technologies' customers are typically OEMs that manufacture equipment for these applications. Products include a wide range of high and ultra-high vacuum pumps (diffusion, turbomolecular and ion getter), intermediate vacuum pumps (rotary vane, sorption and dry scroll), vacuum instrumentation (vacuum control instruments, sensor gauges and meters) and vacuum 10 components (valves, flanges and other mechanical hardware). Its products also include helium mass spectrometry and helium-sensing leak detection instruments used to identify and measure leaks in hermetic or vacuum environments. In addition to product sales, we also offer a wide range of services including an exchange and rebuild program, assistance with the design and integration of vacuum systems, applications support and training in basic and advanced vacuum technologies. 

Consumables and Services We offer a broad range of consumable products, which support our technology platforms, including sample preparation consumables such as solid phase extraction ("SPE") and filtration products, self manufactured GC and LC columns, chemical standards, and instrument replacement parts. Consumable products also include scientific instrument parts and supplies such as filters and fittings for GC systems; xenon lamps and cuvettes for UV-Vis-NIR, fluorescence, FT-IR and Raman spectroscopy instruments; and graphite furnace tubes, hollow cathode lamps and specialized sample introduction glassware for our AA, ICP-OES and ICP-MS products. Other consumable products include on-site screening and laboratory-based kits for drugs of abuse testing ("DAT") on urine or saliva samples, such as in pre-employment screening, criminal justice and toxicology testing. 

We offer a wide range of startup, operational, educational and compliance support services for our measurement and data handling systems. Our support services include maintenance, troubleshooting, repair and training for all of our chemical and bioinstrumentation analysis hardware and software products. Special service bundles have also been designed to meet the specific application needs of various industries. 

Chemical Analysis Customers We had over 23,000 customers for our chemical analysis business in 2010. No single customer represented greater than 3 percent of the net revenue of the chemical analysis business. A significant number of our chemical analysis customers are also customers of our life sciences business. 

The chemical analysis business is susceptible to seasonality in its orders and revenues primarily based on U.S. government and large company budgets. The result is that our fourth fiscal quarter tends to deliver the strongest profits for this business. However, general economic trends, new product introductions and competition might overshadow this trend in any given year. 

Chemical Analysis Sales, Marketing and Support Our sales and support delivery channels are aligned by key markets. We market products to our customers through direct sales, electronic commerce, resellers, manufacturers' representatives and distributors. Additionally, we are optimizing our worldwide distribution capabilities to address high-growth opportunities such as the environmental and food safety markets in the Asia-Pacific region. 

We use direct sales to market our solutions to our large- and medium-sized chemical customers and environmental accounts. Sales agents supplement direct sales by providing broader geographic coverage and coverage of smaller accounts. Our active reseller program augments our ability to provide more complete solutions to our customers. We sell our consumable products through distributors, telesales, electronic commerce and, as a result of our Varian acquisition direct sales. 

11 We deliver our support services to customers in a variety of ways, including on-site assistance with repair or exchange of returned products, telephone support and self-diagnostic services provided over the Internet. We also offer special industry-focused service bundles that are designed to meet the specific needs including those for hydrocarbon processing and environmental customers to keep instruments fully operational and compliant with the respective industry requirements. Our products typically come with standard warranties, and extended warranties are available for additional cost. 

Chemical Analysis Manufacturing Our manufacturing supports our diverse product range and customer-centric focus. We assemble highly configurable products to individual customer orders and make standard products to stock. We employ advanced manufacturing techniques and supply chain management systems to reduce costs and manufacturing cycle times. We selectively use third parties to provide some supply chain processes for manufacturing, warehousing and logistics. We have manufacturing facilities in California, Delaware, and Massachusetts in the U.S. Outside of the U.S., we have manufacturing facilities in Australia, China, Italy, Netherlands, Japan and the United Kingdom. We utilize just-in-time manufacturing and so typically do not maintain a high level of inventory. 

Chemical Analysis Competition The markets for analytical instruments in which we compete are characterized by evolving industry standards and intense competition. Our principal competitors in the chemical analysis arena include: Bruker Corporation, PerkinElmer Inc., Shimadzu Corporation and Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc. Agilent competes on the basis of product performance, reliability, support quality, applications expertise, global channel coverage and price. 

Chemical Analysis Government Regulation The analysis products and related consumables marketed by our chemical analysis business are subject to regulation in the U.S. by the Environmental Protection Agency ("EPA") under the Toxic Substances Control Act and by government agencies in other countries under similar laws. The Toxic Substances Control Act regulations govern, among other things, the testing, manufacture, processing and distribution of chemicals, the testing of regulated chemicals for their effects on human health and safety and import and export of chemicals. The Toxic Substances Control Act prohibits persons from manufacturing any chemical in the U.S. that has not been reviewed by EPA for its effect on health and safety, and placed on an EPA inventory of chemical substances. Therefore, we must continually adapt our chemical analysis products to changing regulations. If we fail to comply with the notification, record-keeping and other requirements in the manufacture or distribution of our products, the EPA can obtain an order from a court that would prohibit the further distribution or marketing of a product that does not comply or we could face fines, civil penalties or criminal prosecution. 

Life Sciences Business Our life sciences business provides application-focused technologies and solutions that include instruments, software, consumables and services that enable customers to identify, quantify and analyze the physical and biological properties of substances and products. Our key product categories include: liquid chromatography, mass spectrometry, microarrays, Polymerase Chain Reaction ("PCR") instrumentation, related bioreagents, electrophoresis, laboratory automation and robotics, software and informatics, Nuclear Magnetic Resonance ("NMR") and Magnetic Resonance Imaging ("MRI') systems, and, consumables and services. 

12 We employed approximately 4,300 people as of October 31, 2010 in our life sciences business. This business generated revenue of $1.5 billion in fiscal 2010, $1.2 billion in fiscal 2009 and $1.3 billion in fiscal 2008. 

Life Science Markets Our life sciences business focuses primarily on the following two markets: The Pharma, Biotech, CRO & CMO Market. 

This market consists of "for-profit" companies who participate across the pharmaceutical value chain in the areas of therapeutic research, discovery & development, clinical trials, manufacturing and quality assurance and quality control. One sub-segment of this market is core and emerging pharmaceutical companies, or "Pharma". A second sub-segment includes biotechnology companies, or "biotech", contract research organizations, or "CROs", and contract manufacturing organizations, or "CMOs". Biotech companies and, to a somewhat lesser extent, CROs and CMOs typically participate in specific points in the Pharma industry value chain. 

The Academic and Government Market. 

This market consists primarily of "not-for-profit" organizations and includes academic institutions, large government institutes and privately funded organizations. The academic and government research market plays an influential role in technology adoption and therapeutic developments for Pharma and molecular diagnostics companies. After decades of investment in basic biomedical research by government funding bodies, the focus has widened to include translational research multidisciplinary scientific efforts directed at "accelerating therapy development". Notable are efforts by the National Institute of Health, the National Cancer Institute, the European Organisation for Research and the Treatment of Cancer (EORTC), the European Molecular Biology Laboratory (EMBL), the Genomics Institute of Singapore (GIS), the Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute, and the National Translational Cancer Research Network (NTRAC). In addition, large donations by private foundations are also fueling growth in this key market segment. 

Life Science Measurement Products and Applications A key factor in all of our life science measurement target markets is the need for new products that increase customer productivity and provide high quality data that enable decision-making by our customers. Our key product segments include: Liquid Chromatography Products A liquid chromatograph ("LC") or a high performance liquid chromatograph ("HPLC") is used to separate molecules of a liquid mixture to determine the quantity and identity of the molecules present. The Agilent LC portfolio is modular in construction and can be configured as analytical and preparative systems. These systems can be stepwise upgraded to highly sophisticated, automated workflow solutions such as method development, multi-method/walk-up, high-capacity/high-throughput or multi-dimensional LC and can be extended to application-based analyzers e.g. for bio-molecular separations, chiral analysis or size exclusion chromatograhy. As a leader in liquid chromatography, we continue to expand our application space with new HPLC columns, new services and diagnostics offerings and ongoing instrument and software product enhancements. 

Mass Spectrometry Products A mass spectrometer ("MS") identifies and quantifies chemicals based on a chemical's molecular mass and characteristic patterns of fragment ion masses that result when a molecule is broken apart. Liquid chromatography ("LC") is commonly used to separate compounds and introduce them to the 13 MS system. The combined use of LC and MS ("LC/MS") is frequently used both to identify and quantify chemical compounds. Mass spectrometry is an important tool in analyzing small molecules and can also be used to characterize and quantify proteins and other biological entities. Agilent's LC/MS portfolio includes instruments built around five main analyzer types single quadrupole, triple quadrupole, ion trap, time-of-flight ("TOF") and quadrupole time-of-flight ("QTOF"). We significantly expanded our mass spectrometry portfolio over the past three years with a focus on improving performance, reliability, and ease of use. 

Microarray Products Agilent is a leading provider of microarray-based, genomics research solutions. Our end-to-end solution includes reagents for sample preparation and microarray processing; hardware for sample QC and high-throughput microarray scanning; 60-mer oligo microarrays on industry-standard 1" 3" glass slides for gene expression; comparative genomic hybridization ("CGH")/Copy Number variation ("CNV") analysis, microRNA, methylation, splice variants, and chromatin immunoprecipitation applications; custom microarray design services; and GeneSpring software products for data analysis. We also provide target enrichment products for next-generation sequencing platforms. In 2010, we released SureSelect XT Target Enrichment System, the first fully customizable liquid genome partitioning / enrichment sample prep system that enhances and accelerates nucleic acid sequencing experiment when used in front of "next generation" sequencing technologies. 

PCR Instrumentation The acquisition of Stratagene Corporation during fiscal 2007 provided an expansion of our life science tools offering with the addition of tools and instrumentation for implementing PCR. PCR is used by scientists studying genetics to amplify or replicate a small amount of DNA to enable further analysis of the genes. Our portfolio of PCR instrumentation, reagents and kits, coupled with our other products such as microarrays and target enrichment systems for next-generation sequencing, provides a broad set of workflow solutions to customers in the genomics marketplace. 

Bioreagents Bioreagents are the primary tools used by scientists in the life science market to interrogate cells, genes and proteins. These bioreagent products are used to conduct a variety of experiments necessary to understand both the form and function of biological entities. The acquisition of Stratagene Corporation provided an expansion of our Life Science tools offering with the addition of a portfolio of reagent products for Nucleic Acid Amplification (PCR) and quantitative real-time PCR (QPCR), Cloning, Mutagenesis, Cell Biology and other key life science applications. These reagent tools enable us to create a broad set of complete workflow solutions to meet customer needs across our life science markets. 

Lab Automation and Robotics The acquisition of Velocity11 during fiscal 2008 enabled us to offer a more comprehensive suite of workflow solutions to our life science customers with the addition of automated liquid handling and robotics that range from standalone instrumentation to bench-top automation solutions to large, multi-armed robotic systems. These solutions strengthened our offering of automated sample- preparation solutions across a broad range of applications. In fiscal 2009 we continued with our focus on automating laboratory processes by introducing the new Direct Drive Robot and VWorks Automation Control Software. The Direct Drive Robot advances high-throughput screening for drug-discovery research and can also be used in genomics applications, including DNA extraction and PCR sample preparation. 

14 Electrophoresis Products Electrophoresis is used in many scientific and applied disciplines, such as food identification or protein quality control, to separate, quantify, enrich and purify biomolecules which differ in their electrical charge or polarity. Agilent is a world leading supplier of innovative electrophoretic separation solutions. The 2100 Bioanalyzer analyzes biomolecules or cells in microfluidic networks of channels and wells etched into glass chips. The 3100 OFFGEL Fractionator resolves proteins or peptides by isoelectric point with liquid-phase recovery. 

Software and Informatics Products We provide software for instrument control, data acquisition, data analysis, laboratory content and business process management, and informatics. Our software facilitates the regulatory-compliant use of instruments in pharmaceutical quality assurance/quality control environments. With OpenLab, Agilent has introduced a scalable, open architecture, that enables you to easily capture, analyze, and share scientific data throughout the lab and across the enterprise. 

NMR and MRI systems With the acquisition of Varian in 2010, Agilent has enriched its portfolio with NMR (Nuclear Magnetic Resonance), spectrometers, Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) systems and X-ray diffractometers used in a variety of industries including academic and not-for-profit research, life sciences (pharma and biotech), and industrial companies. All of these technologies are utilized for basic and applied research, and NMR is also used in process development and manufacturing QA/QC. 

Consumables and Services We also offer a broad range of consumable products, which support our LC, and MS technology platforms. These consumable products include sample preparation products; self manufactured LC columns, instrument replacement parts, and consumable supplies to meet our customers' analysis needs. All of our products are designed to Agilent's specifications to improve and maximize the performance of our instruments. 

We offer a wide range of startup, operational, educational and compliance support services for our measurement and data handling systems. Our support services include maintenance, troubleshooting, repair and training for all of our chemical and bioinstrumentation analysis hardware and software products. Special service bundles have also been designed to meet the specific application needs of various industries. 

Life Sciences Customers We had over 25,000 customers for our life sciences business in 2010. No single customer represented greater than 2 percent of the net revenue of the life sciences business. A significant number of our life sciences customers are also customers of our chemical analysis business. 

The life sciences business is susceptible to seasonality in its orders and revenues primarily based on U.S. government and large pharmaceutical company budgets. The result is that our first and fourth fiscal quarters tend to deliver the strongest profits for this group. However, general economic trends, new product introductions and competition might overshadow this trend in any given year. 

Life Sciences Sales, Marketing and Support The life science channel focuses on the therapeutics customer base (Pharma, biotech, CRO, CMO and Generics and on emerging life sciences opportunities in academic and government life science 15 research institutes. We market products to our customers through direct sales, electronic commerce, resellers, manufacturers' representatives and distributors. We use direct sales to market our solutions to all of our pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical accounts. Sales agents supplement direct sales by providing broader geographic coverage and coverage of smaller accounts. Our active reseller program augments our ability to provide more complete solutions to our customers. We sell our consumable products through distributors, telesales, electronic commerce and direct sales. 

We deliver our support services to customers in a variety of ways, including on-site assistance with repair or exchange of returned products, telephone support and self-diagnostic services provided over the Internet. We also offer special industry-focused service bundles that are designed to meet the specific needs of hydrocarbon processing, environmental, pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical customers to keep instruments fully operational and compliant with the respective industry requirements. Our products typically come with standard warranties, and extended warranties are available for additional cost. 

Life Sciences Manufacturing Our manufacturing supports our diverse product range and customer-centric focus. We assemble highly configurable products to individual customer orders and make standard products to stock. We employ advanced manufacturing techniques and supply chain management systems to reduce costs and manufacturing cycle times. We selectively use third parties to provide some supply chain processes for manufacturing, warehousing and logistics. We have manufacturing facilities in California, Colorado, Texas and Delaware in the U.S. Outside of the U.S., we have manufacturing facilities in Australia, Germany, UK, Poland and Singapore. We utilize just-in-time manufacturing and so typically do not maintain a high level of inventory. 

Life Sciences Competition The markets for analytical instruments in which we compete are characterized by evolving industry standards and intense competition. Our principal competitors in the life sciences arena include: Affymetrix Inc., Bruker Corp., Danaher Corporation, Illumina, Inc., Life Technologies Corp., Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc. and Waters Corp. Agilent competes on the basis of product performance, reliability, support quality, applications expertise, global channel coverage and price. 

Life Sciences Government Regulation The analysis products and related consumables marketed by our life sciences business are subject to regulation in the U.S. by the Environmental Protection Agency ("EPA") under the Toxic Substances Control Act and by government agencies in other countries under similar laws. The Toxic Substances Control Act regulations govern, among other things, the testing, manufacture, processing and distribution of chemicals, the testing of regulated chemicals for their effects on human health and safety and import and export of chemicals. The Toxic Substances Control Act prohibits persons from manufacturing any chemical in the U.S. that has not been reviewed by EPA for its effect on health and safety, and placed on an EPA inventory of chemical substances. Therefore, we must continually adapt our chemical analysis products to changing regulations. If we fail to comply with the notification, record-keeping and other requirements in the manufacture or distribution of our products, the EPA can obtain an order from a court that would prohibit the further distribution or marketing of a product that does not comply or we could face fines, civil penalties or criminal prosecution. 

Agilent Technologies Research Laboratories Agilent Research Laboratories is our central research organization based in Santa Clara, California, with satellite offices in Beijing, China; Leuven, Belgium, and South Queensferry, Scotland. 

16 The Research Laboratories create competitive advantage through high-impact technology, driving market leadership and growth in Agilent's core businesses and expanding Agilent's measurement footprint into adjacent markets. At the cross-roads of the organization, the Research Labs are able to identify and enable synergies across Agilent's businesses to create competitive differentiation and compelling customer value. 

The technical staff have advanced degrees that cover a wide range of scientific and engineering fields, including biology, chemistry, computer science, distributed measurement, electrical engineering, image processing, materials science, mathematics, nano/microfabrication, microfluidics, software, informatics, optics, physics, physiology and signal processing. 

Global Infrastructure Organization We provide support to our businesses through our global infrastructure organization. This support includes services in the areas of finance, legal, workplace services, human resources and information technology. These organizations are generally headquartered in Santa Clara, California, with services provided worldwide. As of the end of October 2010, our global infrastructure organization employed approximately 2,200 people worldwide, which includes the Agilent Labs researchers described above. 

The following discussions of Research and Development, Backlog, Intellectual Property, Materials, Environmental, International Operations and Acquisition and Disposal of Material Assets include information common to each of our businesses. 

Research and Development Research and development ("R&D") expenditures were $612 million in 2010, $642 million in 2009 and $704 million in 2008, the vast majority of which was company-sponsored. We anticipate that we will continue to have significant R&D expenditures in order to maintain our competitive position with a continuing flow of innovative, high-quality products and services. 

Backlog On October 31, 2010, our unfilled orders for the electronic measurement business were approximately $830 million, as compared to approximately $670 million at October 31, 2009. On October 31, 2010, our unfilled orders for the chemical analysis business were approximately $250 million, as compared to approximately $160 million at October 31, 2009. Within our life sciences business, our unfilled orders were approximately $350 million on October 31, 2010 as compared to approximately $210 million at October 31, 2009. We expect that a large majority of the unfilled orders for all three businesses will be delivered to customers within six months. On average, our unfilled orders represent approximately three months' worth of revenues. In light of this experience, backlog on any particular date, while indicative of short-term revenue performance, is not necessarily a reliable indicator of medium or long-term revenue performance. 

Intellectual Property We generate patent and other intellectual property rights covering significant inventions and other innovations in order to create a competitive advantage. While we believe that our licenses, patents and other intellectual property rights have value, in general no single license, patent or other intellectual property right is in itself material. In addition, our intellectual property rights may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented or may otherwise not provide significant competitive advantage. 

17 Materials Our manufacturing operations employ a wide variety of semiconductors, electromechanical components and assemblies and raw materials such as plastic resins and sheet metal. Our electronic measurement, chemical analysis and life sciences businesses all purchase materials from thousands of suppliers on a global basis. Some of the parts that require custom design work are not readily available from alternate suppliers due to their unique design or the length of time necessary for design work. Our long-term relationships with suppliers allow us to proactively manage technology road maps and product discontinuance plans and monitor their financial health. Even so, some suppliers may still extend their lead times, limit supplies, increase prices or cease to produce necessary parts for our products. If these are unique components, we may not be able to find a substitute quickly or at all. To address the potential disruption in our supply chain, we use a number of techniques, including qualifying multiple sources of supply and redesign of products for alternative components. In addition, while we generally attempt to keep our inventory at minimal levels, we do purchase incremental inventory as circumstances warrant to protect the supply chain. 

Environmental Our R&D, manufacturing and distribution operations involve the use of hazardous substances and are regulated under international, federal, state and local laws governing health and safety and the environment. We apply strict standards for protection of the environment and occupational health and safety to sites inside and outside the U.S., even if not subject to regulation imposed by foreign governments. We believe that our properties and operations at our facilities comply in all material respects with applicable environmental laws and occupational health and safety laws. However, the risk of environmental liabilities cannot be completely eliminated and there can be no assurance that the application of environmental and health and safety laws to Agilent will not require us to incur significant expenditures. We are also regulated under a number of international, federal, state, and local laws regarding recycling, product packaging and product content requirements. The environmental, product content/disposal, and recycling laws are gradually becoming more stringent and may cause us to incur significant expenditures in the future. 

Some of our operations are located on properties that are known to have subsurface contamination undergoing remediation by our former parent company, Hewlett-Packard Company ("HP"). As part of the initial separation agreement from HP in 1999, HP agreed to retain the liability for the contamination, perform the required remediation and indemnify us with respect to claims arising out of the contamination. The determination of the existence and cost of remediation of additional contamination caused by us, if any, could involve costly and time-consuming negotiations and litigation. While we expect that HP will meet its remediation and indemnification obligations in this regard, there can be no guarantee that it will do so. Under our agreement with HP, HP will have access to these properties to perform the remediation. HP has agreed to minimize interference with on-site operations at those properties during the course of the remediation, but there can be no guarantee that our operations will not be interrupted or that we will not be required to incur unreimbursed costs associated with the remediation. The remediation could also harm on-site operations and the future use and negatively affect the value and future use of the properties. Several of the sites under the initial separation agreement from HP have been sold. 

In addition, some of these properties are undergoing remediation by HP under an order of an agency of the state in which the property is located. Although HP has agreed to indemnify us with respect to such subsurface contamination, it is possible that one or more of the governmental agencies will require us to be named on any of these orders. The naming of Agilent will not affect HP's obligation to indemnify us with regard to these matters. 

18 We are liable and are indemnifying HP for any contamination found at all facilities transferred to us by HP excluding the properties undergoing remediation. In addition, we are obligated to indemnify HP for liability associated with past non-compliance with environmental laws regulating ongoing operations, if any, at all properties transferred to us by HP, as well as at sold or discontinued businesses that are related to our businesses. While we are not aware of any material liabilities associated with such indemnified matters, there is no guarantee that such contamination or regulatory non-compliance does not exist, and will not expose us to material liability in the future. 

We are being indemnified by HP with respect to all environmental liabilities for which HP accrued a reserve, and we are not aware of any material environmental liabilities assumed by us which are not subject to the indemnity. 

As part of our acquisition of Varian in 2010, we assumed the liabilities of Varian, including Varian's costs and potential liabilities for environmental matters. One such cost is our obligation, along with the obligation of Varian Semiconductor Equipment Associates, Inc. ("VSEA") (under the terms of a Distribution Agreement between Varian, VSEA and Varian Medical Systems, Inc. ("VMS")) to each indemnify VMS for one-third of certain costs (after adjusting for any insurance proceeds and tax benefits recognized or realized by VMS for such costs) relating to (a) environmental investigation, monitoring and/or remediation activities at certain facilities previously operated by Varian Associates, Inc. ("VAI") and third-party claims made in connection with environmental conditions at those facilities, and (b) U.S. Environmental Protection Agency or third-party claims alleging that VAI or VMS is a potentially responsible party under the Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, as amended ("CERCLA") in connection with certain sites to which VAI allegedly shipped manufacturing waste for recycling, treatment or disposal (the "CERCLA sites"). With respect to the facilities formerly operated by VAI, VMS is overseeing the environmental investigation, monitoring and/or remediation activities, in most cases under the direction of, or in consultation with, federal, state and/or local agencies, and handling third-party claims. VMS is also handling claims relating to the CERCLA sites. Although any ultimate liability arising from environmental-related matters could result in significant expenditures that, if aggregated and assumed to occur within a single fiscal year, could be material to our financial statements, the likelihood of such occurrence is considered remote. Based on information currently available and our best assessment of the ultimate amount and timing of environmental-related events, management believes that the costs of environmental-related matters are not reasonably likely to have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. 

We maintain a comprehensive Environmental Site Liability insurance policy which may cover certain clean-up costs or legal claims related to environmental contamination. This policy covers specified active, inactive and divested locations. 

International Operations Our net revenue originating outside the U.S., as a percentage of our total net revenue, was approximately 68 percent in fiscal 2010, 67 percent in fiscal 2009, and 68 percent in fiscal 2008, the majority of which was from customers other than foreign governments. Annual revenues derived from China were approximately 14 percent in fiscal 2010, 13 percent in fiscal 2009 and 11 percent in fiscal 2008. Approximately 10 percent of our revenue in fiscal 2010, 11 percent in fiscal 2009 and 12 percent in fiscal 2008 was derived from Japan. Revenues from external customers are generally attributed to countries based upon the location of the Agilent sales representative. 

Long-lived assets located outside of the U.S., as a percentage of our total long-lived assets, was approximately 52 percent in fiscal year 2010, 51 percent in fiscal year 2009 and 48 percent in fiscal 19 year 2008. Approximately 13, 16 and 14 percent of our long-lived assets were located in Japan in fiscal years 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. 

Most of our sales in international markets are made by foreign sales subsidiaries. In countries with low sales volumes, sales are made through various representatives and distributors. However, we also sell into international markets directly from the U.S. 

Our international business is subject to risks customarily encountered in foreign operations, including interruption to transportation flows for delivery of parts to us and finished goods to our customers, changes in a specific country's or region's political or economic conditions, trade protection measures, import or export licensing requirements, consequences from changes in tax laws and regulatory requirements, difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations, differing labor regulations, differing protection of intellectual property and geopolitical turmoil, including terrorism and war. We are also exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk inherent in our sales commitments, anticipated sales and expenses, and assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the local functional currency, and may also become subject to interest rate risk inherent in any debt we incur, or investment portfolios we hold. There may be an increased risk of political unrest in regions where we have significant manufacturing operations such as Southeast Asia. However, we believe that our international diversification provides stability to our worldwide operations and reduces the impact on us of adverse economic changes in any single country. Financial information about our international operations is contained in Note 21, "Segment Information", to our consolidated financial statements. 

Acquisition and Disposal of Material Assets On May 14, 2010, we completed our acquisition of Varian, Inc., a leading supplier of scientific instrumentation and associated consumables for life science and applied market applications, for a total cash purchase price of approximately $1.5 billion. Varian's products include analytical instruments, research products and related software, consumable products, accessories and services, as well as vacuum products and related services and accessories. The acquisition broadens Agilent's applications and solutions offerings in life sciences, environmental, and energy and materials. It also expands Agilent's product portfolio into atomic and molecular spectroscopy; establishes a leading position in nuclear magnetic resonance, imaging and vacuum technologies; and strengthens our consumables portfolio. We financed the purchase price of Varian using the proceeds from our September 2009 offering of senior notes and other existing cash. Varian's cash acquired at completion of the acquisition was approximately $226 million. 

Executive Officers of the Registrant The names of our current executive officers and their ages, titles and biographies appear below: Jean M. Halloran, 58, has served as our Senior Vice President, Human Resources since from August 1999. From 1997 to 1999, Ms. Halloran served as Director of Corporate Education and Development for Hewlett-Packard. Prior to assuming this position, from 1993 to 1997, Ms. Halloran acted as human resources manager for Hewlett-Packard's Measurement Systems Organization. Ms. Halloran joined Hewlett-Packard in 1980 in the Medical Products Group, where she held a variety of positions in human resources, manufacturing and strategic planning. 

Didier Hirsch, 59, has served as our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officers since July 2010 and served as interim Chief Financial Officer from April 2010 to July 2010. Prior to that he served as Vice President, Corporate Controllership and Tax from November 2006 to July 20, 2010 and as Chief Accounting Officer from November 2007 to July 20, 2010. From April 2003 to October 2006, Mr. Hirsch 20 served as Vice President and Controller. Prior to assuming this position, Mr. Hirsch served as Vice President and Treasurer from September 1999 to April 2003. Mr. Hirsch had joined Hewlett-Packard Company in 1989 as Director of Finance and Administration of Hewlett-Packard France. In 1993, he became Director of Finance and Administration of Hewlett-Packard Asia Pacific, and in 1996 Director of Finance and Administration of Hewlett- Packard Europe, Middle East, and Africa. 

Marie Oh Huber, 49, has served as Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary since September 2009 and serves as an officer or director for a variety of Agilent subsidiaries. She served as our Vice President, Deputy General Counsel and Assistant Secretary from June 2007 to September 2009, as our Vice President, Assistant General Counsel and Assistant Secretary from July 2002 to June 2007 and as our Assistant General Counsel and Assistant Secretary from May 1999 to July 2002. Ms. Huber served as an attorney and counsel for Hewlett-Packard Company from 1990 to May 1999. She is also a director of American Leadership Forum Silicon Valley. 

Michael R. McMullen , 49, has served as Senior Vice President, Agilent and President, Chemical Analysis Group since September 2009. From January 2002 to September 2009, he served as our Vice President and General Manager of the Chemical Analysis Solutions Unit of the Life Sciences and Chemical Analysis Group. Prior to assuming this position, from March 1999 to December 2001, Mr. McMullen served as Country Manager for Agilent's China, Japan and Korea Life Sciences and Chemical Analysis Group. Prior to this position, Mr. McMullen served as our Controller for the Hewlett-Packard Company and Yokogawa Electric Joint Venture from July 1996 to March 1999. 

Ronald S. Nersesian, 51, has served as Senior Vice President, Agilent and President, Electronic Measurement Group since March 2009. From February 2005 to February 2009, Mr. Nersesian served as our Vice President and General Manager of the Wireless Business Unit of the Electronics Measurement Group and from May 2002 to February 2005, as our Vice President and General Manager of the Design Validation Division. Prior to joining Agilent, Mr. Nersesian served in management positions with LeCroy Corporation from 1996 to 2002, including Senior Vice President and General Manager of the Digital Storage Oscilloscope Business. 

Nicolas H. Roelofs, 52, has served as Senior Vice President, Agilent and President, Life Sciences Group since September 2009. From June 2006 to September 2009 he served as our Vice President and General Manager of the Life Sciences Solutions Unit of the Life Sciences and Chemical Analysis Group. Prior to joining Agilent, Mr. Roelofs served as Group Operations Officer of the Life Sciences Group of Bio-Rad Laboratories from January 2005 to May 2006. Prior to that, Mr. Roelofs served as Chief Operating Officer of Stratagene Corporation from September 2001 to December 2004. 

William P. Sullivan, 60, has served as Agilent's President, Chief Executive Officer and a Director since March 2005. Before being named as Agilent's Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Sullivan served as Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer from March 2002 to March 2005. In that capacity, he shared the responsibilities of the president's office with Agilent's former President and Chief Executive Officer, Edward W. Barnholt. Mr. Sullivan also had overall responsibility for Agilent's Electronic Products and Solutions Group, the company's largest business group. Prior to assuming that position, Mr. Sullivan served as our Senior Vice President, Semiconductor Products Group, from August 1999 to March 2002. Before that, Mr. Sullivan held various management positions at Hewlett-Packard Company. Mr. Sullivan serves on the Board of the Children's Discovery Museum in San Jose, California, as well as on the Board of Directors of URS Corporation and Avnet, Inc. 

21 Investor Information We are subject to the informational requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act"). Therefore, we file periodic reports, proxy statements and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"). Such reports, proxy statements and other information may be read and copied by visiting the Public Reference Room of the SEC at 100 F Street N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. You may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, the SEC maintains an Internet site (http://www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically. 

You can access financial and other information at our Investor Relations website. The address is www.investor.agilent.com. We make available, free of charge, copies of our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after filing such material electronically or otherwise furnishing it to the SEC. 

Our Amended and Restated Corporate Governance Standards, the charters of our Audit and Finance Committee, our Compensation Committee, our Executive Committee and our Nominating/Corporate Governance Committee, as well as our Standards of Business Conduct (including code of ethics provisions that apply to our principal executive officer, principal financial officer, principal accounting officer and senior financial officers) are available on our website at www.investor.agilent.com under "Corporate Governance". These items are also available in print to any stockholder in the United States and Canada who requests them by calling (877) 942-4200. This information is also available by writing to the company at the address on the cover of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 
