http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1090872/000104746906000516/a2166540z10-k.htm
http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1090872/000104746906000516/0001047469-06-000516-index.html
15244000000.0
A
2005-10-31
10-K
A_2005-10-31_10-K.txt


Item 9A. 

Controls and Procedures We carried out an evaluation required by Rule 13a-15 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of Agilent's "disclosure controls and procedures" and "internal control over financial reporting" as of the end of the period covered by this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

The evaluation of Agilent's disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting included a review of our objectives and processes, implementation by the company and the effect on the information generated for use in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In the course of this evaluation and in accordance with Section 302 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002, we sought to identify material weaknesses in our controls, to determine whether we had identified any acts of fraud involving personnel who have a significant role in our internal control over financial reporting that would have a material effect on our consolidated financial statements, and to confirm that any necessary corrective action, including process improvements, were being undertaken. Our evaluation of our disclosure controls and procedures will be done quarterly and management will report the effectiveness of our controls and procedures can be reported in our periodic reports filed with the SEC. Our internal control over financial reporting is also evaluated on an ongoing basis by Agilent's internal auditors and by other personnel in Agilent's finance organization. The overall goals of these evaluation activities are to monitor our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting and to make modifications as necessary. We intend to regularly evaluate our processes and procedures and make improvements as circumstances warrant. 

Because of its inherent limitations, disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. In addition, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. Management necessarily applied its judgment in assessing the benefits of controls relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within the company have been detected. The design of any system of controls is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions, regardless of how remote. 

Disclosure Controls and Procedures Disclosure controls and procedures are designed with the objective of ensuring that (i) information required to be disclosed in the company's reports filed under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC's rules and forms and (ii) information is accumulated and communicated to management, including the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosures. Based on their evaluation, Agilent's Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures are effective. 

Management's Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, as such term is defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(f). Under the supervision and 114 with the participation of our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, we conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting based on the framework in Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and includes those policies and procedures that (a) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the Company; (b) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit the preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and that receipts and expenditures of the Company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of the Company's management and directors; and (c) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of the Company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. Based on our evaluation under the framework in Internal Control Integrated Framework , our management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of October 31, 2005. 

Our management's assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of October 31, 2005 and the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of October 31, 2005 has been audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in their report which appears in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Management's Consideration of the 2004 Restatement As disclosed in Note 1A, "Restatement of 2004 Consolidated Financial Statements", to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we restated our previously issued 2004 financial statements to correct for a misstatement in our provision for income taxes. This restatement resulted from a material weakness in the accounting for income taxes related to the classification of certain income tax effects between the provision for income taxes and other comprehensive income. A material weakness is a control deficiency, or combination of control deficiencies, that results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected. During 2005, management remediated the control deficiency that resulted in the 2004 restatement. Consequently, this matter did not constitute a control deficiency as of October 31, 2005. 

Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting There were no changes in our internal control over financial reporting that occurred during Agilent's last fiscal quarter that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting. 
