http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1090872/000089161802005622/f86150e10vk.htm
http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1090872/000089161802005622/f86150e10vk.htm
1.181e+12
A
2002-10-31
10-K
A_2002-10-31_10-K.txt

On August 1, 2001 we completed the sale of our healthcare solutions business to Phillips for initial proceeds of approximately $1.7 billion. In May of 2002 we finalized the sale agreement. We received $1.6 billion in August of 2001 and since then we have received all of the $100 million withheld by Philips from the total purchase price at the time of the sale plus adjustments for the final purchased net assets. Cash flows from discontinued operations include the proceeds from the sale and cash used in the operations of the healthcare solutions business during the year up until the date of sale. 
We have terminated our $250 million five-year revolving credit facility that was due to expire on November 5, 2005 and have not extended the $250 million 364-day revolving credit facility that terminated on November 1, 2002. We had no outstanding balances under these credit facilities during 2002. We did not have plans to use these credit facilities, and we believe that the costs of renewing and/or retaining these credit facilities outweighed their benefits. We continue to have access to uncommitted credit lines through our banking partners, although we do not anticipate any significant additional credit needs in the next year. 
In the normal course of business, we enter into contractual commitments to purchase materials and components from suppliers in exchange for favorable pricing or more beneficial terms. These regular purchase agreements did not exceed 5 percent of cost of sales. We have contractual commitments to non-cancelable operating leases and vendor financing arrangements with CIT. We provide lease guarantees on these financing arrangements and we have no other material guarantees or commitments. See Note 16, Other Accrued Liabilities in Item 15 of this report for further information on lease guarantees. See Note 18, Commitments in Item 15 of this report for further information on our non-cancelable operating leases. 
We are taking actions to achieve positive cash flows from operations in 2003. We will benefit from significant cost savings through our restructuring programs and we have plans to further improve our collection of accounts receivable and lower our inventory levels. Inventory levels already have been reduced by over $400 million from two years ago. This represents major progress in a key area of our asset performance. 
Our liquidity is affected by many factors, some of which are based on normal operating cash flow patterns of our businesses and some of which arise from fluctuations related to global economies and markets. Our cash balances are generated and held in a number of locations throughout the world, and in some cases tax rules and regulations could restrict our ability to move cash balances from one jurisdiction to meet cash requirements in another jurisdiction without incurring tax penalties. We do not currently expect such regulations and restrictions to impact our ability to pay vendors and conduct operations throughout our global organization. We believe that our current cash and cash equivalents and other borrowing capabilities will be sufficient to satisfy our working capital, capital expenditure and other liquidity needs for 2003. 
Risks, Uncertainties and Other Factors That May Affect Future Results The economic downturn resulted in reduced purchasing and capital spending in many of the markets that we serve worldwide. In particular, the communications, semiconductor and electronics industries have been in a downward cycle characterized by diminished product demand, excess manufacturing capacity and the increasing erosion of average selling prices. Although some segments of these industries have shown recent signs of stabilization, others, especially in communications, continue to exhibit a downward cycle. There has been year-over-year orders growth in our semiconductor products, life sciences and chemical analysis, semiconductor test and wireless test businesses, but demand in these markets remains volatile so the underlying trend is uncertain. In addition, our 53 businesses serving wireline telecommunications markets have continued to decline. Pricing pressures intensified throughout 2002, reducing our gross margins. 
We are uncertain how long the current downturn will last and when a sustained recovery in our markets may occur. Any further decline in our customers markets or in general economic conditions would likely result in a further reduction in demand for our products and services. In addition, if our customers markets continue to decline, we may not be able to collect on outstanding amounts due to us. Such further decline could harm our consolidated financial position, results of operations, cash flows and stock price, and could limit our ability to reach our goals for restoring profitability. Also, in such an environment, pricing pressures could continue, and if we are unable to respond quickly enough this could negatively impact our gross margins. Finally, we may be required to secure additional debt or equity financing at some time in the future, and we cannot assure you that such financing will be available on acceptable terms when required. 
Beginning in the third quarter of 2001, our revenue started declining. To scale back our operations and to reduce our expenses in response to this decreased demand for our products and services and lower revenue, we reduced our workforce, froze hiring, cut back significantly on our use of temporary workers and reduced discretionary spending. We also initiated short-term facility closures to reduce production levels. 
In calendar year 2001, we announced plans to reduce our workforce by approximately 8,000 people. This reduction was completed at the end of the fourth quarter of 2002. In connection with our announcement of our results for the quarter ended July 31, 2002, we announced that to reach our profitability goals we will have to reduce costs by approximately another $50 million per quarter. This entails approximately 2,500 additional job cuts, which are underway. In addition, from May 1 to October 31 of 2001, we instituted a 10 percent pay reduction applicable to all employees globally, wherever legally permissible. Starting in the first quarter of 2002, we continued the 10 percent pay reduction for approximately 2,000 of our senior managers. In February of 2002, we reinstated the pay reduction at a rate of 5 percent for our other employees, wherever legally permissible. The reductions in pay took effect via a reduction in hours for certain employees, in accordance with local law. In addition to these measures, we are continuing our initiatives to streamline our operations. The pay reductions continued throughout our third quarter. Starting August 1, 2002, we restored full pay to all employees worldwide, which increases the pressure to reach our profitability goals. 
There are several risks inherent in our efforts to transition to a reduced cost structure. These include the risk that we will not be able to reduce expenditures quickly enough and sustain them at a level necessary to restore profitability, and that we may have to undertake further restructuring initiatives that would entail additional charges. For example, prior to the third quarter of 2002, we had not anticipated the necessity for the further restructuring initiatives to reduce costs by another $50 million per quarter. In addition, there is the risk that cost-cutting initiatives will impair our ability to effectively develop and market products and remain competitive in the industries in which we compete. Each of the above measures could have long-term effects on our business by reducing our pool of technical talent, decreasing or slowing improvements in our products, making it more difficult for us to respond to customers, limiting our ability to increase production quickly if and when the demand for our products increases and limiting our ability to hire and retain key personnel. These circumstances could cause our earnings to be lower than they otherwise might be. 
Because we cannot immediately adapt our production capacity and related cost structures to rapidly changing market conditions, when demand does not meet our expectations, our manufactur- 54 ing capacity will likely exceed our production requirements. Currently, we have excess manufacturing capacity as a result of the decrease in purchasing and capital spending in the communications, electronics and semiconductor industries. The fixed costs associated with excess manufacturing capacity have adversely affected, and may continue to adversely affect, our earnings. Conversely, if during a market upturn we cannot increase our manufacturing capacity to meet product demand, we will not be able to fulfill orders in a timely manner, which in turn may have a negative effect on our earnings and overall business. 
Our earnings could be harmed if we are unable to adjust our orders for parts to market fluctuations. In order to secure components for the production of products, we may continue to enter into non-cancelable purchase commitments with vendors, or at times make advance payments to suppliers, which could impact our ability to adjust our inventory to declining market demands. Prior commitments of this type have resulted in an excess of parts as demand for our communications, semiconductor and electronics products has decreased. For example, in the year ended October 31, 2001, we incurred approximately $459 million of inventory-related charges, and in the twelve months ended October 31, 2002, we have incurred approximately another $40 million in inventory-related charges. If the demand for our products continues to decrease, we may experience additional excess and obsolete inventories and be forced to incur additional charges. By contrast, during a market upturn, our results could be materially and adversely impacted if we cannot increase our inventories quickly enough to meet increasing demand for our products. Approximately 5 percent of our parts require custom work. Of these, some parts are not readily available from alternate suppliers, due to their unique nature or the length of time necessary for design work. Should a supplier cease manufacture of such a component, we would be forced to reengineer our product. In addition to discontinuing parts, suppliers may also extend lead times, limit supplies or increase prices due to capacity constraints or other factors. 
We are in the process of implementing new information systems to eventually replace our current systems, which are largely based on legacy systems that were created when we were a part of Hewlett-Packard. As a part of this effort, we are implementing new enterprise resource planning software and other software applications to manage our business operations. We may not be successful in implementing these new systems and transitioning data. In the quarter ended October 31, 2002, following the first phase of our enterprise resource planning software implementation, we were still experiencing some difficulties in providing customer quotes and in acknowledging and shipping customer orders. Although we believe that we have identified, to a large extent, the problems associated with the implementation and that the system is now stabilizing, new problems could arise that we have not foreseen. During 2003, we expect to implement a new customer support information system and some additional functionality to our enterprise resource planning software. If further disruptions occur in the current implementation or the implementation of the additional system and functionality in 2003, our operations could be interrupted. Such disruptions could adversely impact our ability to do the following in a timely manner: provide quotes, take customer orders, ship products, provide services and support to our customers, bill and track our customers, fulfill contractual obligations and otherwise run our business. As a result, our financial position, results of operations, cash flows and stock price could be adversely affected. In addition, our future revenue and profit projections could be inaccurate if we have misjudged the realization of potential future savings from the new systems. 
55 Given the nature of the markets in which we participate, we cannot reliably predict future revenue and profitability. Our quarterly sales and operating results have become highly dependent on the volume and timing of orders received during the quarter, which are difficult to forecast. Throughout 2002, the continued low levels of orders significantly affected our ability to efficiently plan production and inventory levels, which led to fluctuations in operating results. In addition, a significant portion of our operating expenses is relatively fixed in nature due to our significant sales, research and development and manufacturing costs. If we cannot adjust spending quickly enough to compensate for a revenue shortfall, this may magnify the adverse impact of such revenue shortfall on our results of operations. Fluctuations in our operating results may cause volatility in the price of our common stock and the debentures. 
We generally sell our products in industries that are characterized by rapid technological changes, frequent new product and service introductions and changing industry standards. Without the timely introduction of new products, services and enhancements, our products and services will become technologically obsolete over time, in which case our revenue and operating results would suffer. The success of our new product and service offerings will depend on several factors, including our ability to: Because we sell our products worldwide, our business is subject to risks associated with doing business internationally. We anticipate that revenue from international operations will continue to represent a substantial portion of our total revenue. In addition, many of our manufacturing facilities and suppliers are located outside the U.S. Accordingly, our future results could be harmed by a variety of factors, including: 56 The current U.S. and international response to terrorism could exacerbate these risks. For example, there may be an increased risk of political unrest in regions such as Southeast Asia, where we have significant manufacturing operations. This could disrupt our ability to manufacture products or import parts as well as cause interruptions and/or delays in our ability to transport products to our customers or parts to other locations to continue the manufacturing and assembly processes. Any such delay or interruption could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. 
Our future success depends partly on the continued service of our key research, engineering, sales, marketing, manufacturing, executive and administrative personnel. If we fail to retain and hire a sufficient number of these personnel, we will not be able to maintain or expand our business. Our decision to continue temporary pay cuts in 2002 and to eliminate pay increases for 2002 where legally permissible, along with the scaled-down pay increase program for 2003, may harm our long-term ability to retain and hire key personnel. Although the labor market has changed dramatically within the past two years, and our attrition rate has remained low, there is still intense competition for certain highly technical specialties in geographic areas where we continue to recruit. 
In the normal course of business, we frequently engage in discussions with third parties relating to possible acquisitions, strategic alliances, joint ventures and divestitures. As a result of such transactions, our financial results may differ from the investment community s expectations in a given quarter. In addition, acquisitions and strategic alliances may require us to integrate a different company culture, management team and business infrastructure. We may have difficulty developing, manufacturing and marketing the products of a newly-acquired company in a way that enhances the performance of our combined businesses or product lines to realize the value from expected synergies. Depending on the size and complexity of an acquisition, our successful integration of the entity depends on a variety of factors, including: A successful divestiture depends on various factors, including our ability to: Any additional impairment of the value of purchased assets and goodwill could have a significant negative impact on our future operating results. 
In addition, if customers of the divested business do not receive the same level of service from the new owners, this may adversely affect our other businesses to the extent that these customers 57 also purchase other Agilent products. All of these efforts require varying levels of management resources, which may divert our attention from other business operations. Further, if market conditions or other factors lead us to change our strategic direction, we may not realize the expected value from such transactions. If we do not realize the expected benefits or synergies of such transactions, our consolidated financial position, results of operations, cash flows and stock price could be negatively impacted. 
Historically, our semiconductor products business has sold custom products to Hewlett-Packard and has engaged in product development efforts with divisions of Hewlett-Packard. For the twelve months ended October 31, 2002, shipments from our semiconductor products group to Hewlett-Packard accounted for approximately 8 percent of our total shipments and approximately 33 percent of our semiconductor products business shipments. 
We have a license agreement with Hewlett-Packard that covers integrated circuit technology used in custom integrated circuits for Hewlett-Packard s printers, scanners and computers. The license agreement provides that, until November 2002 in some cases and until November 2009 in other cases, we are prohibited, with some exceptions, from using this integrated circuit technology for the development and sale of integrated circuits for use in inkjet products, printer products (including printer supplies, accessories and components), document scanners and computing products to third parties other than Hewlett-Packard. 
Although we have entered into a supply agreement for the sale to Hewlett-Packard of custom integrated circuits used in printers, scanners and computers, the agreement does not require Hewlett-Packard to purchase a minimum amount of product from us. In the event that Hewlett-Packard reduces its purchases of our custom integrated circuits, we would be unable to address this reduction through sales of these kinds of integrated circuits for these types of products to other customers. 
Some of our properties are undergoing remediation by Hewlett-Packard for subsurface contaminations that were known at the time of our separation from Hewlett-Packard. Hewlett-Packard has agreed to retain the liability for this subsurface contamination, perform the required remediation and indemnify us with respect to claims arising out of that contamination. The determination of the existence and cost of any additional contamination caused by us could involve costly and time-consuming negotiations and litigation. In addition, Hewlett-Packard will have access to our properties to perform remediation. While Hewlett-Packard has agreed to minimize interference with on-site operations at those properties, remediation activities and subsurface contamination may require us to incur unreimbursed costs and could harm on-site operations and the future use and value of the properties. We cannot be sure that Hewlett-Packard will continue to fulfill its indemnification or remediation obligations. 
We have agreed to indemnify Hewlett-Packard for any liability associated with contamination from past operations at all other properties transferred from Hewlett-Packard to us other than those properties currently undergoing remediation by Hewlett-Packard. While we are not aware of any material liabilities associated with any potential subsurface contamination at any of those properties, subsurface contamination may exist, and we may be exposed to material liability as a result of the existence of that contamination. 
58 Our semiconductor and other manufacturing processes involve the use of substances regulated under various international, federal, state and local laws governing the environment. We may be subject to liabilities for environmental contamination, and these liabilities may be substantial. Although our policy is to apply strict standards for environmental protection at our sites inside and outside the U.S., even if the sites outside the U.S. are not subject to regulations imposed by foreign governments, we may not be aware of all conditions that could subject us to liability. 
Our businesses are subject to various significant international, federal, state and local regulations, including but not limited to health and safety, packaging, product content, labor and import/ export regulations. These regulations are complex, change frequently and have tended to become more stringent over time. We may be required to incur significant expenses to comply with these regulations or to remedy violations of these regulations. Any failure by us to comply with applicable government regulations could also result in cessation of our operations or portions of our operations, product recalls or impositions of fines and restrictions on our ability to carry on or expand our operations. In addition, because many of our products are regulated or sold into regulated industries, we must comply with additional regulations in marketing our products. 
Our products and operations are also often subject to the rules of industrial standards bodies, like the International Standards Organization, as well as regulation of other agencies such as the U.S. Federal Communications Commission. We also must comply with work safety rules. If we fail to adequately address any of these regulations, our businesses could be harmed. 
Some of our chemical analysis products are used in conjunction with chemicals whose manufacture, processing, distribution and notification requirements are regulated by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency under the Toxic Substances Control Act, and by regulatory bodies in other countries with laws similar to the Toxic Substances Control Act. We must conform the manufacture, processing, distribution of and notification about these chemicals to these laws and adapt to regulatory requirements in all countries as these requirements change. If we fail to comply with these requirements in the manufacture or distribution of our products, then we could be made to pay civil penalties, face criminal prosecution and, in some cases, be prohibited from distributing our products in commerce until the products or component substances are brought into compliance. 
We have agreements relating to the sale of our products to government entities and, as a result, we are subject to various statutes and regulations that apply to companies doing business with the government. Our sales to U.S. government agencies and contractors are approximately 5 percent of our total sales. The laws governing government contracts differ from the laws governing private contracts. For example, many government contracts contain pricing terms and conditions that are not applicable to private contracts. We are also subject to investigation for compliance with the regulations governing government contracts. A failure to comply with these regulations might result in suspension of these contracts, or administrative penalties. 
While we do not believe that any of our products infringe the valid intellectual property rights of third parties, we may be unaware of intellectual property rights of others that may cover some of our 59 technology, products or services. Any litigation regarding patents or other intellectual property could be costly and time-consuming and could divert our management and key personnel from our business operations. The complexity of the technology involved and the uncertainty of intellectual property litigation increase these risks. Claims of intellectual property infringement might also require us to enter into costly license agreements. However, we may not be able to obtain license agreements on terms acceptable to us, or at all. We also may be subject to significant damages or injunctions against development and sale of certain of our products. 
We often rely on licenses of intellectual property useful for our businesses. We cannot ensure that these licenses will be available in the future on favorable terms or at all. In addition, our position with respect to the negotiation of licenses has changed as a result of our separation from Hewlett-Packard. In the past, as a part of Hewlett-Packard, we benefited from our access to Hewlett-Packard s entire intellectual property portfolio when asserting counterclaims and negotiating cross-licenses with third parties. Our current patent cross-license agreement with Hewlett-Packard gives us only a limited right to sublicense a portion of Hewlett-Packard s intellectual property portfolio. Accordingly, we may be unable to obtain agreements on terms as favorable as we may have been able to obtain if we could have sublicensed Hewlett-Packard s entire intellectual property portfolio. Nothing restricts Hewlett-Packard from competing with us other than some restrictions on the use of patents licensed to Hewlett-Packard by us. 
Our success depends in large part on our proprietary technology. We rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets, confidentiality provisions and licensing arrangements to establish and protect our proprietary rights. If we fail to successfully enforce our intellectual property rights, our competitive position could suffer, which could harm our operating results. 
Our pending patent and trademark registration applications may not be allowed, or competitors may challenge the validity or scope of our patents or trademark registrations. In addition, our patents may not provide us a significant competitive advantage. 
We may be required to spend significant resources to monitor and police our intellectual property rights. We may not be able to detect infringement and our competitive position may be harmed before we do so. In addition, competitors may design around our technology or develop competing technologies. Intellectual property rights may also be unavailable or limited in some foreign countries, which could make it easier for competitors to capture market share. Furthermore, some intellectual property rights are licensed to other companies, allowing them to compete with us using that intellectual property. 
Our factories, facilities and distribution system are subject to catastrophic loss due to fire, flood, terrorism or other natural or man-made disasters. In particular, several of our facilities could be subject to a catastrophic loss caused by earthquake due to their locations. Our production facilities, headquarters and Agilent Technologies Laboratories in California, and our production facilities in Washington and Japan, are all located in areas with above average seismic activity. If any of these facilities were to experience a catastrophic loss, it could disrupt our operations, delay production, shipments and revenue and result in large expenses to repair or replace the facility. Although we carry insurance for property damage and business interruption, we do not carry insurance or financial reserves for interruptions or potential losses arising from earthquakes or terrorism. 
60 There has been an increasing public debate about the proper accounting treatment for employee stock options. Currently we record compensation expense only in connection with option grants that have an exercise price below fair market value. For option grants that have an exercise price at or in excess of fair market value we calculate compensation expense and disclose the impact on net (loss) earnings and net (loss) earnings per share in a footnote to the consolidated financial statements. It is possible that future laws and regulations will require us to record the fair market value of all stock options as compensation expense in our consolidated statement of operations. Note 14, Stock-Based Compensation, of the consolidated financial statements included in Item 15 of this report reflects the impact that such a change in accounting treatment would have had on our net (loss) income and (loss) earnings per share if it had been in effect during the past three years. 
We evaluate whether our deferred tax assets can be realized and assess the need for a valuation allowance on an ongoing basis. Realization of our net deferred tax assets is dependent on our ability to generate future taxable income. A valuation allowance would be recorded if it were more likely than not that some or all of our deferred tax assets would not be realized before they expire. If we establish a valuation allowance we might record a tax expense in our statement of operations which would have an adverse impact on our net income. 
Item 7A. 
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk We are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risks inherent in our sales commitments, anticipated sales, and assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of our subsidiaries. We hedge future cash flows denominated in currencies other than the functional currency using sales forecasts up to twelve months in advance. Our exposure to exchange rate risks is managed on an enterprise-wide basis. This strategy utilizes derivative financial instruments, including option and forward contracts, to hedge foreign currency exposures with the intent of offsetting gains and losses that occur on the underlying exposures with gains and losses on the derivative contracts hedging them. We do not currently and do not intend to utilize derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. 
Our operations generate non-functional currency cash flows such as revenues, third party vendor payments and inter-company payments. In anticipation of these foreign currency cash flows and in view of volatility of the currency market, we enter into such foreign exchange contracts as are described above to manage our currency risk. Approximately 75 percent of our revenues in 2002 and 70 percent of our revenues in each of fiscal years 2001 and 2000 were generated in U.S. dollars. 
We performed a sensitivity analysis assuming a hypothetical 10 percent adverse movement in foreign exchange rates to the hedging contracts and the underlying exposures described above. As of October 31, 2002 and October 31, 2001, the analysis indicated that these hypothetical market movements would not have a material effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 
61 The Financial Statements appear in Item 15 of this report. 
None. 
PART III Item 10. 
Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant Information regarding our directors appears under Election of Directors in our Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders (the Proxy Statement ), to be held March 4, 2003. That portion of the Proxy Statement is incorporated by reference into this report. Information regarding our executive officers appears in Item 1 of this report under Executive Officers of the Registrant. Compliance with Section 16(a) of the Exchange Act Information about compliance with Section 16(a) of the Exchange Act appears under Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance in the Proxy Statement. That portion of the Proxy Statement is incorporated by reference into this report. 
Item 11. 
Executive Compensation Information about compensation of our named executive officers appears under Executive Compensation and under Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation in the Proxy Statement. Information about compensation of our directors appears under Director Compensation Arrangements and Stock Ownership Guidelines in the Proxy Statement. Those portions of the Proxy Statement are incorporated by reference into this report. 
Item 12. 
Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management Information about security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management appears under Common Stock Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management in the Proxy Statement. That portion of the Proxy Statement is incorporated by reference into this report. Information regarding securities authorized for issuance under equity compensation plans appears in Item 5 of this report. 
Item 13. 
Certain Relationships and Related Transactions None. 