http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1090872/000089161802005622/f86150e10vk.htm
http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1090872/000089161802005622/f86150e10vk.htm
1.181e+12
A
2002-10-31
10-K
A_2002-10-31_10-K.txt

Item 15. 
Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports on Form 8-K (a) The following documents are filed as part of this report: 1. 
Financial Statements None. 
See Index to Exhibits. The Exhibits listed in the accompanying Index to Exhibits are filed as part of this report. 
(b) Reports on Form 8-K 63 STATEMENT OF MANAGEMENT RESPONSIBILITY Agilent Technologies management is responsible for the preparation, integrity and objectivity of the consolidated financial statements and other financial information presented in this report. The accompanying consolidated financial statements have been prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. and reflect the effects of certain estimates and judgments made by management. 
Management maintains an effective system of internal control that is designed to provide reasonable assurance that assets are safeguarded and transactions are properly recorded and executed in accordance with management s authorization. The system is continuously monitored by direct management review and by internal auditors who conduct audits throughout the company. We select and train qualified people who are provided with and expected to adhere to Agilent Technologies standards of business conduct. These standards, which set forth strong principles of business ethics and conduct, are a key element of our control system. 
Our consolidated financial statements have been audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, independent accountants. Their audits were conducted in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the U.S., and included a review of financial controls and tests of accounting records and procedures as they considered necessary in the circumstances. 
The Audit and Finance Committee of the Board of Directors, which consists of outside directors, meets regularly with management, the internal auditors and the independent accountants to review accounting, reporting, auditing and internal control matters. The committee has direct and private access to both the internal auditors and the independent accountants. 
64 REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS To the Stockholders and Board of Directors of Agilent Technologies, Inc.: In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated balance sheet and the related consolidated statements of operations, cash flows and stockholders equity present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Agilent Technologies, Inc. and its subsidiaries at October 31, 2002 and 2001, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended October 31, 2002, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. These financial statements are the responsibility of the company s management; our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits. We conducted our audits of these statements in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the United States of America, which require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion. 
As discussed in the notes to the consolidated financial statements, the company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities and changed its method of revenue recognition as of November 1, 2000. 
San Jose, California November 18, 2002 65 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 
66 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 
67 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 
68 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF STOCKHOLDERS EQUITY The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 
69 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 
70 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1. Overview and Basis of Presentation Agilent Technologies, Inc. ( we, Agilent or the Company ), incorporated in Delaware in May 1999, is a global diversified technology organization that provides enabling solutions to technology markets within the communications, electronics, life sciences and chemical analysis industries. Prior to our initial public offering of 16 percent of our stock in November 1999, we were a wholly-owned subsidiary of Hewlett-Packard Company ( Hewlett-Packard ). Hewlett-Packard distributed the remaining 84 percent of our stock to its stockholders on June 2, 2000 in the form of a stock dividend. 
On August 1, 2001 we completed the sale of our healthcare solutions business to Koninklijke Philips Electronics, N.V. The results of the healthcare solutions business are presented as discontinued operations for all periods in the consolidated financial statements included herein. See Note 4, Discontinued Operations . 
Our fiscal year end is October 31. Unless otherwise stated, all years and dates refer to our fiscal year. 
2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Basis of presentation. 
The accompanying financial data has been prepared by us pursuant to the rules and regulations of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ). Amounts in the consolidated financial statements as of and for the years ended October 31, 2001 and October 31, 2000 have been reclassified to conform to the presentation in 2002. 
Principles of consolidation. 
The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the company and our wholly- and majority-owned subsidiaries. All significant intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated. 
Use of estimates. 
The preparation of financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. requires that management make a number of estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses in our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Management bases its estimates on historical experience and various other assumptions believed to be reasonable. Although these estimates are based on management s best knowledge of current events and actions that may impact the Company in the future, actual results may be different from the estimates. 
Revenue recognition. 
Revenue from product sales, net of trade discounts and allowances, is recognized once delivery has occurred provided that persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, the price is fixed or determinable, and collectibility is reasonably assured. Delivery is considered to have occurred when title and risk of loss have transferred to the customer. Revenue is reduced for estimated product returns and distributor price protection, when appropriate. For sales that include customer-specified acceptance criteria, revenue is recognized after the acceptance criteria have been met. For products that include installation, if the installation meets the criteria to be considered a separate element, product revenue is recognized upon delivery, and recognition of installation revenue is delayed until the installation is complete. Otherwise, neither the product nor the installation revenue is recognized until the installation is complete. Provisions are established for estimated costs that may be incurred for product warranties. Revenue from services is recognized over the contractual period or as services are rendered and accepted by the customer. 
Shipping and handling costs. 
Our shipping and handling costs charged to customers are included in net revenue and the associated expense is recorded in total costs for all periods presented. 
71 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Deferred revenue. 
Deferred revenue is primarily made up of service, support and maintenance agreements, and advanced billings and customer deposits. 
Goodwill and purchased intangible assets. 
Goodwill and purchased intangible assets are carried at cost less accumulated amortization. Amortization is computed using the straight-line method over the economic lives of the respective assets, generally three to ten years. Goodwill resulting from acquisitions completed after June 30, 2001 has not been amortized, in accordance with the requirements of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ( SFAS ) No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets ( SFAS No. 142 ). 
Advertising. 
Advertising costs are expensed as incurred and amounted to $81 million in 2002, $115 million in 2001 and $178 million in 2000. 
Taxes on earnings. 
Income tax expense or benefit is based on earnings or loss before taxes. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized principally for the expected tax consequences of temporary differences between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their reported amounts. Prior to June 3, 2000, our operating results were included in Hewlett-Packard s consolidated U.S. and state income tax returns and in tax returns of certain Hewlett-Packard foreign subsidiaries. 
Net (loss) earnings per share. 
Basic net (loss) earnings per share is computed by dividing net (loss) earnings the numerator by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding the denominator during the period excluding the dilutive effect of stock options and other employee stock plans. Diluted net (loss) earnings per share gives effect to all potentially dilutive common stock equivalents outstanding during the period. In computing diluted net (loss) earnings per share, the average stock price for the period is used in determining the number of shares assumed to be purchased from the proceeds of stock option exercises. Diluted net (loss) earnings per share for 2002 and 2001 excludes the potentially dilutive effect of common stock equivalents as their effect is antidilutive. 
Cash and cash equivalents. 
We classify investments as cash equivalents if their original maturity is three months or less. Cash equivalents are stated at cost, which approximates fair value. 
Fair value of financial instruments. 
The carrying values of certain of our company s financial instruments, including cash and cash equivalents, accrued compensation and other accrued liabilities approximate fair value because of their short maturities. The fair values of investments are determined using quoted market prices for those securities or similar financial instruments. 
Concentration of credit risk. 
We sell the majority of our products through our direct sales force. No single customer accounted for 10 percent or more of the combined accounts receivable balance at October 31, 2002 and 2001. Credit risk with respect to accounts receivable is generally diversified due to the large number of entities comprising our customer base and their dispersion across many different industries and geographies. We perform ongoing credit evaluations of our customers financial conditions, and require collateral, such as letters of credit and bank guarantees, in certain circumstances. 
Derivative instruments. 
We enter into foreign exchange contracts, primarily forward contracts and purchased options, to hedge exposures to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. These contracts are designated at inception as hedges of the related foreign currency exposures, which include committed and anticipated intercompany transactions and assets and liabilities that are denominated in currencies other than functional currency. To achieve hedge accounting, contracts must reduce the foreign currency exchange rate risk otherwise inherent in the amount and duration of the hedged exposures and comply with established risk management policies; hedging contracts 72 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) generally mature within twelve months. We do not use derivative financial instruments for speculative or trading purposes. 
When hedging anticipated intercompany cash flow exposure, foreign exchange contract expirations are set so as to occur in the same period that the goods are expected to be sold to third parties, allowing realized gains and losses on the contracts to be recognized into cost of goods sold. When hedging balance sheet exposure, gains and losses on foreign exchange contracts are recognized in other income (expense), net in the same period as the occurrence of gains and losses on remeasurement of the non-functional currency denominated assets and liabilities. The gains and losses, which have not been material, are included in cash flows from operating activities in the consolidated statement of cash flows. 
We may also, from time to time, acquire warrants to purchase securities of other companies as part of strategic relationships. 
Inventory. 
Inventory is valued at standard cost which approximates actual cost computed on a first-in, first-out basis, not in excess of market value. 
Property, plant and equipment. 
Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation. Additions, improvements and major renewals are capitalized; maintenance, repairs and minor renewals are expensed as incurred. When assets are retired or disposed of, the assets and related accumulated depreciation and amortization are removed from our general ledger and the resulting gain or loss is reflected in operations. Buildings and improvements are depreciated over fifteen to forty years and machinery and equipment over three to ten years. The straight-line method of depreciation was adopted for all property, plant and equipment placed into service after November 1, 2001. The effect of this change on the net loss for the year was insignificant. For property, plant and equipment placed into service prior to November 1, 2001, depreciation is provided using accelerated methods, principally over fifteen to forty years for buildings and improvements and three to ten years for machinery and equipment, including equipment leased to customers under operating leases. Depreciation of leasehold improvements is provided using the straight-line method over the life of the asset or the term of the lease, whichever is shorter. 
Capitalized software. 
We capitalize certain internal and external costs incurred to acquire or create internal use software in accordance with AICPA Statement of Position 98-1, Accounting for the Costs of Computer Software Developed or Obtained for Internal Use. Capitalized software is included in property, plant and equipment under machinery and equipment and is amortized over its useful life when development is complete. 
Impairment of long-lived assets. 
We continually monitor events and changes in circumstances that could indicate carrying amounts of long-lived assets, including intangible assets, may not be recoverable. When such events or changes in circumstances occur, we assess the recoverability of long-lived assets by determining whether the carrying value of such assets will be recovered through undiscounted expected future cash flows. If the total of the future cash flows is less than the carrying amount of those assets, we recognize an impairment loss based on the excess of the carrying amount over the fair value of the assets. See Note 3, New Accounting Pronouncements for further discussion. 
Foreign currency translation. 
Effective November 1, 2001, we have determined that the functional currency for many of our subsidiaries outside the U.S. has changed from the U.S. dollar to local currency based on the criteria of SFAS No. 52 Foreign Currency Translation . This change did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial position as of November 1, 2001. For those subsidiaries that operate in a local currency functional environment, all assets and liabilities are translated into U.S. dollars using current exchange rates; revenue and expenses are translated using 73 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) average exchange rates in effect during each period. Resulting translation adjustments are reported as a separate component of accumulated comprehensive loss in stockholders equity. 
For those subsidiaries that operate in a U.S. dollar functional environment, foreign currency assets and liabilities are remeasured into U.S. dollars at current exchange rates except for inventory, property, plant and equipment, other assets and deferred revenue, which are remeasured at historical exchange rates. Revenue and expenses are generally translated at average exchange rates in effect during each period, except for those expenses related to balance sheet amounts that are remeasured at historical exchange rates. Gains or losses from foreign currency remeasurement are included in consolidated net (loss) earnings. 
For our subsidiaries which are local currency functional, the effect of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations during 2002 on our consolidated cash and cash equivalents balance was not material. 
3. New Accounting Pronouncements In July 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) issued SFAS No. 142 under which goodwill will no longer be amortized but reviewed annually (or more frequently if impairment indicators arise) for impairment. We adopted SFAS No. 142 on November 1, 2002. Subsequently, we are required to evaluate our existing goodwill and intangible assets and make any necessary reclassification in order to comply with the new criteria in SFAS No. 142. Based on our assessment, effective in the first quarter of 2003, approximately $6 million of intangible assets associated with workforce-in-place will be reclassified to goodwill. 
As part of our assessment, we used the fair value measurement requirement, rather than the previously required undiscounted cash flows approach, and as a result we expect to record a transitional impairment loss from the implementation of SFAS No. 142 as a change in accounting principle in the first quarter of 2003. The fair value of the reporting units was determined primarily by the income approach, which estimates the fair value based on the future discounted cash flows. The first step evaluation of reporting units on a fair value basis, as required by SFAS No. 142, indicated that an impairment exists in the communications solutions reporting unit within our test and measurement business. The revenue forecasts of the communications solutions reporting unit have been impacted by the prolonged economic downturn in the communications test markets. We were required to perform the second step analysis to determine the amount of the impairment loss for the reporting unit that failed the first step test. The second step analysis consisted of comparing the implied fair value of the reporting unit s goodwill with the carrying amount of the reporting unit s goodwill, with an impairment charge resulting from any excess of the carrying value of the reporting unit s goodwill over the implied fair value of the reporting unit s goodwill. Based upon this evaluation, the pre-tax impairment is expected to be $268 million, approximately 44 percent of total consolidated goodwill recorded as of October 31, 2002. The adoption of SFAS No. 142 is also expected to have a material impact on our results of operations because goodwill will no longer be amortized subsequent to the adoption of SFAS No. 142. Amortization of goodwill was $326 million in 2002, $303 million in 2001 and $64 million in 2000. 
In August 2001, the FASB issued SFAS No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets ( SFAS No. 144 ). SFAS No. 144 amends existing accounting guidance on asset impairment and provides a single accounting model for long-lived assets to be disposed of. Among other provisions, the new rules change the criteria for classifying an asset as held-for-sale. The standard also broadens the scope of businesses to be disposed of that qualify for reporting as discontinued operations, and changes the timing of recognizing losses on such operations. We will 74 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) adopt SFAS No. 144 in the first quarter of 2003. We do not believe that the adoption will have a material impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 
In July 2002, the FASB issued SFAS No. 146, which nullifies EITF No. 94-3. SFAS No. 146 requires that a liability be recognized for restructuring costs only when the liability is incurred, that is, when it meets the definition of a liability in the FASB s conceptual framework. SFAS No. 146 also establishes fair value as the objective for initial measurement of liabilities related to exit or disposal activities and is effective for exit or disposal activities that are initiated after December 31, 2002, with earlier adoption encouraged. The effect of adoption is dependent on the timing of our related restructuring activities; however, we do not believe that the adoption of SFAS No. 146 will have a material impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. 
4. Discontinued Operations On August 1, 2001, we completed the sale of our healthcare solutions business to Koninklijke Philips Electronics, N.V. ( Philips ) pursuant to an Asset Purchase Agreement for a total purchase price of $1.7 billion. Philips paid initial proceeds of $1.6 billion to us on August 1, 2001, with further payments following pursuant to the terms of the Asset Purchase Agreement dated as of November 17, 2000, as amended and supplemented by the Amendment and Supplemental Agreement, dated as of August 1, 2001 (collectively, the Asset Purchase Agreement ). The total purchase price was subject to adjustment based on the determination of the final purchased net assets and on our performance of integration services for Philips. 
Our consolidated financial statements reflect our healthcare solutions business as discontinued operations in accordance with Accounting Principles Board ( APB ) Opinion No. 30 Reporting the Results of Operations Reporting the Effects of Disposal of a Segment of a Business, and Extraordinary, Unusual and Infrequently Occurring Events and Transactions ( APB No. 30 ). The financial position, results of operations and cash flows of our healthcare solutions business have been classified as discontinued, and prior periods have been restated, including the reallocation of general overhead charges to our three remaining business segments. We recorded an after-tax gain of $646 million in 2001 and an after-tax loss of $10 million in 2002 as a result of the sale to Philips. In 2002, adjustments were made to the gain as a result of purchase price adjustments to reflect the final purchased net assets and additional costs that were not anticipated at the time of the sale. 
We signed an agreement with Philips, dated as of May 15, 2002, finalizing the purchase price adjustments from the sale. The adjustments did not result in a material adjustment to the gain on sale. Since August 1, 2001, we received all of the $100 million withheld by Philips from the total purchase price at the time of the sale plus adjustments for the final purchased net assets. For incremental fees, we provided support services to Philips after August 1, 2001 and a portion of these fees offset costs that include an element of fixed costs which are recognized in selling, general and administrative expenses in 2001 and 2002. As of October 31, 2002, we have completed our contractual obligation to provide services to Philips. 
75 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) The following table shows the components of the gain on sale of discontinued operations initially recorded and the subsequent adjustments. 
The following table shows the results of operations of our healthcare solutions business in 2001 and 2000. There were no results from operation in 2002. 
5. Acquisitions and Sale of Assets On January 5, 2001, we acquired Objective Systems Integrators, Inc. ( OSI ) for approximately $716 million. Of this total, $690 million was cash and the remainder represents the fair value of 76 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) options granted. Using the purchase method of accounting in accordance with APB Opinion No. 16, Business Combinations ( APB No. 16 ), the purchase price was allocated to tangible and intangible assets including goodwill. The original goodwill balance of $593 million was being amortized over three years. The net book value of goodwill associated with this acquisition at October 31, 2002 was $234 million. At the time of the acquisition OSI was a leading provider of next-generation operations-support-system software for communications service providers and has become part of our test and measurement business. 
In July 1999, Hewlett-Packard entered into an agreement with Yokogawa Electric Corporation ( Yokogawa ) to acquire Yokogawa s 25 percent equity interest in Agilent Technologies Japan, Ltd. for approximately $521 million (the Yokogawa Purchase ). The acquisition was done in several steps. In the initial step, which occurred in January 2000, we purchased approximately 10 percent of Agilent Technologies Japan, Ltd. shares from Yokogawa for approximately $206 million. In the second step, which occurred in April 2000, we purchased approximately 11 percent of additional Agilent Technologies Japan, Ltd. shares from Yokogawa for approximately $216 million. In January 2001, we completed the Yokogawa Purchase by purchasing the remaining 4 percent interest for approximately $99 million. Of the total purchase price, $243 million was allocated to tangible assets and $278 million was attributed to goodwill which was being amortized over ten years. The remaining net book value of goodwill associated with this acquisition was $205 million at October 31, 2002. 
In addition to the OSI acquisition and the Yokogawa Purchase, we acquired several other companies during 2002, 2001 and 2000, which were not significant to our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. These acquisitions were accounted for under the purchase method of accounting as defined in APB No. 16 or SFAS No. 141 depending on the date of acquisition. The results of operations of the acquired companies were included prospectively from the date of acquisition and the acquisition cost was allocated to the acquired tangible assets and liabilities and identifiable intangible assets based on fair values at the date of acquisition. Residual amounts were recorded as goodwill. In-process research and development write-offs have not been significant. 
Unaudited pro forma statement of operations information has not been presented because the effects of these acquisitions were not material on either an individual or an aggregated basis. 
The net book value of goodwill was $610 million at October 31, 2002 and $944 million at October 31, 2001. Goodwill related to acquisitions completed prior to June 30, 2001 was amortized over periods ranging from three to ten years. Effective in the first quarter of 2003, goodwill will no longer be amortized, in accordance with our adoption SFAS No. 142. Effective in the first quarter of 2003, approximately $6 million of workforce-in-place will be reclassified from intangible assets to goodwill . 
Goodwill amortization was $326 million in 2002, $303 million in 2001 and $64 million in 2000. The aggregate amount of goodwill impairment losses was $12 million in 2002, $8 million in 2001 and insignificant in 2000. See further discussion in Note 3, New Accounting Pronouncements. The net book value of purchased other intangible assets was $75 million at October 31, 2002 and $126 million at October 31, 2001. Purchased intangible assets such as purchased technology ($59 million as of October 31, 2002), workforce-in-place ($6 million as of October 31, 2002) and customer relationships ($10 million as of October 31, 2002) are amortized over periods from three to four years. Amortization of purchased intangible assets was $52 million in 2002, $41 million in 2001 and $7 million in 2000. 
Sale of Leasing Portfolio. 
In the fourth quarter of 2000, we entered into an asset purchase agreement with CIT Group Inc. ( CIT, formerly Tyco Capital Corporation) pursuant to which we sold them substantially all of our leasing portfolio (the CIT Group Sale ) over the course of 2000 and 2001. There was no impact on our consolidated cash flows and results of operations from the CIT 77 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Group Sale in 2002. The impact on our consolidated cash flows and results of operations of the CIT Group Sale in the two previous years is shown below. 
We also entered into a vendor financing arrangement with CIT whereby CIT will provide equipment financing and leasing services to our customers on a global basis. This agreement has been in place since the fourth quarter of 2000. 
In addition to the CIT Group Sale and the sale of the healthcare solutions business, we sold assets related to portions of our businesses to third parties during 2002, 2001, and 2000. Gross proceeds from these dispositions were $31 million in 2002, $13 million in 2001, and insignificant in 2000. Gains from the dispositions, included in other income (expense), net, in the consolidated statement of operations, were $15 million in 2002, $9 million in 2001, and insignificant in 2000. 
6. Adoption of SAB 101 In December 1999, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC ) issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 101, Revenue Recognition in Financial Statements ( SAB 101 ). During the fourth quarter of 2001, we adopted SAB 101 retroactive to the beginning of the year. The cumulative effect of the adoption resulted in a charge to 2001 net earnings of $47 million (net of income taxes of $27 million) or $0.10 per basic and diluted share. As a result of adopting SAB 101, delivery is considered to have occurred when title and risk of loss have transferred to the customer. For the year ended October 31, 2001, the net impact on 2001 revenues including amounts deferred at October 31, 2001 was an increase of $67 million of revenue and $29 million of cost of products which were included in the cumulative effect adjustment. Pro forma amounts for the year ended October 31, 2000 have not been presented, as the effect of the change could not reasonably be determined. 
7. Adoption of SFAS No. 133 Effective November 1, 2000, we adopted SFAS No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, as amended by SFAS No. 138, Accounting for Certain Derivative Instruments and Certain Hedging Activities ( SFAS No. 133 ). SFAS No. 133, as amended, establishes accounting and reporting standards for derivative instruments, and requires that all derivatives be recognized as either assets or liabilities on the balance sheet and carried at fair value. Changes in the fair value of the derivative instruments are recognized in earnings or stockholders equity, depending on the intended use of the instrument. 
If derivative instruments are designated and qualify as a fair value hedge, changes in value of the derivative are recognized in earnings in the current period, along with the offsetting gain or loss on the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk. If derivative instruments are designated and qualify as a cash flow hedge, changes in the value of the effective portion of the derivative instrument are recognized in other comprehensive income, a component of stockholders equity. These amounts are reclassified and recognized in earnings when either the forecasted transaction occurs or it becomes probable the forecasted transaction will not occur. Changes in the fair value of the ineffective portion of derivative instruments are recognized in earnings in the current period. Ineffectiveness in 2002 and 2001 was not significant. 
78 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) The adoption of SFAS No. 133 on November 1, 2000 resulted in a cumulative pre-tax reduction to income of $41 million ($25 million after tax) and a pre-tax increase in other comprehensive income of $10 million. 
8. (Loss) Earnings Per Share The following is a reconciliation of the numerators and denominators of the basic and diluted net (loss) earnings per share computations for the periods presented below. 
Options to purchase 73.8 million shares of common stock at a weighted average exercise price of $40 per share were outstanding in 2002, but were not included in the computation of diluted net (loss) earnings per share because the options were antidilutive for 2002. The options, which expire no later than 2012, were still outstanding at the end of 2002. In 2001, options to purchase 63.9 million shares of common stock at a weighted average exercise price of $46 per share were outstanding, but were not included in the computation of diluted net earnings per share because the options were antidilutive. 
See Note 17, Senior Convertible Debentures and Lines of Credit, for a discussion of our senior convertible debentures, which may be dilutive in 2003. 
9. Supplemental Cash Flow Information Cash paid for income taxes was $160 million in 2002, $450 million in 2001 and $546 million in 2000. Cash paid for interest was $36 million in 2002, $28 million in 2001 and was not material in 2000. 
Non-cash transactions were primarily related to the issuance of common stock under various employee stock plans in the amount of $23 million in 2002, $26 million in 2001 and $44 million in 2000, and acquisitions in the amount of $70 million in 2001 and $25 million in 2000. 
79 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 10. Inventory Inventory-related charges of $40 million, $459 million and $70 million were recorded in total cost of products in 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. We record excess and obsolete inventory charges for both inventory on our site as well as inventory at our contract manufacturers and suppliers where we have non-cancelable purchase commitments. As required by the guidance in SAB 100 inventory write-downs represent a new cost basis and therefore not a valuation allowance. 
11. Property, Plant and Equipment, Net The net book value of capitalized software was $171 million at October 31, 2002 and $64 million at October 31, 2001. These amounts primarily relate to the development of our website, Enterprise Resource Planning ( ERP ) system and Customer Relationship Management ( CRM ) software. 
We have sold substantially all of our portfolio of operating leases to CIT. See Note 5, Acquisitions and Sale of Assets. Equipment under operating leases was $10 million at October 31, 2002 and $23 million at October 31, 2001 and was included in machinery and equipment. Accumulated depreciation related to equipment under operating leases was $5 million at October 31, 2002 and $4 million at October 31, 2001. 
80 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 12. Taxes on Earnings The (benefit) provision for income taxes is comprised of: The significant components of deferred tax assets, for which no valuation allowance was required, and deferred tax liabilities included on the consolidated balance sheet are: At October 31, 2002, we had net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $1,115 million and tax credit carryforwards of approximately $245 million. The net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards will expire beginning in 2005 through 2022 if not utilized. 
Tax benefits of $6 million in 2002, $11 million in 2001 and $16 million in 2000 associated with the exercise of employee stock options were recognized in stockholders equity. 
81 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) The differences between the U.S. federal statutory income tax rate and our effective tax rate are: The domestic and foreign components of (loss) earnings from continuing operations before taxes are: As a result of certain employment and capital investment actions undertaken by us, income from manufacturing activities in certain countries is subject to reduced tax rates, or is wholly exempt from taxes, for tax years through 2010. The income tax benefits attributable to the tax status of subsidiaries in these countries were estimated to be $33 million in 2002, $37 million in 2001 and $41 million in 2000. 
We have not provided for U.S. federal income and foreign withholding taxes on $970 million of non-U.S. subsidiaries undistributed earnings as of October 31, 2002 because we intend to reinvest such earnings indefinitely. Where excess cash has accumulated in our non-U.S. subsidiaries and it is advantageous for tax or foreign exchange reasons, subsidiary earnings are remitted. 
13. Restructuring and Asset Impairment Summary We currently have two active restructuring plans one initiated in the fourth quarter of 2001 (the 2001 Plan ) and the other initiated in the fourth quarter of 2002 (the 2002 Plan ) after it became clear that the actions taken in the previous year would not be sufficient to return the company to profitability. Both plans were designed to reduce costs and expenses in order to return the company to profitability without relying on an improvement in economic conditions. 
Actions have been focused on segments that were impacted most severely by the changing environment our test and measurement and semiconductor products groups but actions were also taken to reduce the costs associated with support services such as finance and administration. Cost reductions were initiated by reducing the number of properties, particularly sales and administrative sites and by reducing our workforce within the impacted segments. 
Our 2001 Plan was substantially complete as of October 31, 2002. The 2002 Plan is still being implemented we expect to complete it no later than the first quarter of 2004. 
82 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) The 2001 Plan In 2001, as a result of the economic downturn that impacted many of the markets that we serve, we took steps to restructure our businesses. On August 20, 2001, we announced a plan to reduce our workforce by approximately 4,000, or about nine percent, by the middle of 2002. On November 15, 2001, we enhanced and supplemented our plan by announcing a further reduction of 4,000 jobs once we had determined that the actions contemplated in August would not be sufficient to return us to profitability. Together these actions form the 2001 Plan, which was designed to reduce costs across almost all of our administrative and support services, including sales and marketing, and to focus our production activities on those products that we believed would return us to profitability, such as those in life sciences, semiconductor test and wireless telecommunications. Our plan impacted the test and measurement group and the semiconductor products group and had little direct impact on the life sciences and chemical analysis group except as the plan related to support services reductions across all of our businesses. Within the test and measurement segment, we reduced production capacity dramatically for communications test product lines and reduced production to some degree in general purpose and semiconductor test product lines. Within the semiconductor products segment we reduced production capacity significantly for product lines in networking, especially long-haul networks, and reduced production capacity for some personal systems products. The 2001 Plan was substantially complete as of October 31, 2002, although we will continue to make lease payments on a number of properties vacated as a result of this plan through at least the next 5 years. 
A summary of restructuring activity for the 2001 Plan through October 31, 2002 is shown in the table below: The three main components of the 2001 Plan relate to workforce reductions, consolidation of excess facilities and impairment of property, plant and equipment. 
Workforce related charges were incurred due to the 8,000-person workforce reduction; the cuts impacted all regions, all expense categories and most of our segments. Research and development activities were terminated on some product development initiatives, none of which were individually or in total significant to our future revenues or profitability. We also took action to reduce the number of employees at production facilities that had experienced declining demand, such as those making equipment for the long-haul wireline business. 
Our plan to consolidate excess facilities resulted in charges for lease termination fees and losses anticipated from sub-lease agreements. We have exited, or plan to exit in the near future, more than 83 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 100 production, support and sales facilities, or parts of facilities, across all regions particularly in the U.S. and Japan, representing more than 3.6 million square feet, or about 19 percent, of our worldwide property. As of October 31, 2002, we have vacated approximately 40 percent of these facilities. The decision to exit individual facilities was made as a result of specific economic conditions in certain countries and as part of our strategy to centralize support services and to consolidate facilities. We lease most of these buildings from third parties, and the closures impacted all three of our segments. In most cases, we are exiting office space housing sales and administrative employees. However, a small number of production facilities were closed as a result of our plans to consolidate manufacturing into fewer sites. 
Asset impairment charges relate to fixed assets and were determined using estimates of the expected future cash flows generated from those assets. Impairments were recorded for machinery and equipment in production facilities that we were closing or scaling back, such as for the long-haul wireline business and for leasehold improvements in leased facilities that we planned to exit. One production facility in Kobe, Japan accounted for approximately $60 million of the $129 million of asset impairment charges in 2002. In order to determine the amount of the impairment, under the held-for-use model in accordance with SFAS No. 121, we estimated the cash flows that would result from our continued use of the building until we expect to vacate it and also estimated the sales proceeds that we expected to be able to realize. The resulting impairment was approximately 80 percent of the net book value of the facility, primarily due to the decline in the local property market. 
We have incurred $511 million of the expenses for the 2001 Plan through October 31, 2002, $154 million in 2001 and $357 million in 2002. The most significant revision to the plan was made in the fourth quarter of 2002 after updating our lease termination costs and sub-lease income assumptions as the real estate leasing market continued to decline, adding a number of leased sales offices and two owned production facilities to the list that we were planning to exit, including the facility in Kobe, Japan, described above; we incurred incremental asset impairment costs of $94 million and lease facility costs of $36 million in relation to these changes. 
We have reduced our workforce by approximately 7,700 (approximately 6,400 from involuntary terminations and approximately 1,300 from net attrition) as of October 31, 2002. We paid approximately $210 million in cash for severance payments in 2002. The cash payments were funded using cash generated from operations, existing working capital and credit facilities, where necessary. 
The 2002 Plan On August 19, 2002, we announced our intention to further reduce our operational costs by $50 million per quarter so that we might reach profitability at target revenue levels of $1.6 billion per quarter. We concluded that we must further reduce our breakeven point given our current level of revenues because the wireline and communications markets are recovering more slowly than we anticipated. This plan primarily affects the manufacturing and field operations serving the wireline markets that are components of our test and measurement group. 
84 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) A summary of restructuring activity for the 2002 Plan through October 31, 2002 is shown in the table below: As part of the 2002 Plan we have reduced our workforce by approximately 300 as of October 31, 2002. We expect to reduce our workforce by 2,500 in total by the time the plan is completed. We expect to achieve the majority of the $50 million reduction in quarterly operational costs by mid-2003. 
Asset impairment charges of $34 million relate to machinery and equipment, primarily owned by the semiconductor products group in Singapore. The equipment had been purchased in support of communications research, but as a result of our restructuring plans, we have decided to sell the equipment and conduct the research using existing equipment in the U.S. 
A summary of the income statement impact of the combined plans in 2002 and 2001 is shown below. There were no significant restructuring activities in 2000. 
Other asset impairment charges In June 2001, we recognized a $74 million asset impairment charge with respect to our decision to cancel the development of a software system for our customer support activities. We entered into an agreement with Hewlett-Packard to extend our use of their legacy customer support systems in place of the one that we were developing. 
14. Stock-Based Compensation Employee stock purchase plans. 
Prior to February 2, 2000, virtually all of our employees were able to contribute up to ten percent of their base compensation to the quarterly purchase of Hewlett-Packard s common stock under the Hewlett-Packard Stock Purchase Plan (the Hewlett-Packard Plan ). Under the provisions of the Hewlett-Packard Plan, employee contributions to purchase shares were partially matched with shares contributed by Hewlett-Packard. These matching shares generally vested over two years. After February 2, 2000, we implemented the Agilent Technologies, Inc. Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the Legacy Plan ) that was similar to the Hewlett-Packard Plan and 85 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) allowed eligible employees to contribute up to ten percent of their base compensation to the purchase of our common stock. Under the provisions of the Legacy Plan, employee contributions were partially matched with shares contributed by us. These matching shares also generally vested over two years. On June 2, 2000, all unvested matching shares of Hewlett-Packard stock held by our employees were forfeited and replaced by our common stock of equivalent value. Compensation expense for the matching provision for both the Hewlett-Packard Plan and the Legacy Plan was measured using the fair value of shares on the date of purchase by Hewlett-Packard for the Hewlett-Packard Plan and by Agilent for the Legacy Plan and was recognized over the two-year vesting period. Compensation expense under both plans was $16 million in 2002, $28 million in 2001 and $34 million in 2000. At October 31, 2002, 9,802,100 shares of our common stock had been authorized for issuance under the Legacy Plan and 3,359,279 of these shares had been issued. 
Effective October 31, 2000, purchases and contributions under the Legacy Plan ceased. All unvested matching shares under the Legacy Plan maintained their original vesting terms based on the employee s continued employment. Vesting of these matching shares was completed by October 31, 2002. 
Effective November 1, 2000, we adopted a new plan, the Agilent Technologies, Inc. Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the 423(b) Plan ). Under the provisions of the 423(b) Plan, eligible employees may contribute up to ten percent of their base compensation to purchase shares of our common stock at 85 percent of the lower of the fair market value at the entry date or the purchase date as defined by the 423(b) Plan. As of October 31, 2002, 35,000,000 shares of our common stock were authorized for issuance under the 423(b) Plan and 6,407,624 of these shares have been issued. 
Incentive compensation plans. 
On September 17, 1999, we adopted the Agilent Technologies, Inc. 1999 Stock Plan (the Stock Plan ) and subsequently reserved 67,800,000 shares of our common stock for issuance under the Stock Plan. In February 2001, our stockholders approved an additional 45,000,000 shares of our common stock for issuance under the Stock Plan. These shares were subsequently registered in May 2002. Stock options, stock appreciation rights, stock awards and cash awards may be granted under the Stock Plan. Options granted under the Stock Plan may be either incentive stock options, as defined in section 422 of the Internal Revenue Code, or non-statutory. Options generally vest at a rate of 25 percent per year over a period of four years from the date of grant and have a maximum term of ten years. The exercise price for incentive stock options is not less than 100 percent of the fair market value of our common stock on the date the stock award is granted. 
At October 31, 2002, shares registered and available for option and restricted stock grants were 51,949,609. Compensation expense for discounted options, stock appreciation rights and restricted stock is recognized based on the intrinsic value method defined by APB Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees ( APB No. 25 ). Any compensation expense is recognized ratably over the associated service period, which is generally the vesting period. The compensation expense related to discounted options, stock appreciation rights and restricted stock was $7 million in 2002, $8 million in 2001 and $24 million in 2000. 
Effective June 2000, a majority of the Hewlett-Packard awards held by our employees were converted to Agilent awards of equivalent value. The conversion of Hewlett-Packard options into Agilent options was done in such a manner that (1) the aggregate intrinsic value of the options immediately before and after the exchange was the same, (2) the ratio of the exercise price per option to the market value per option was not reduced, and (3) the vesting provisions and options period of the replacement Agilent options were the same as the original vesting terms and option period of the Hewlett-Packard options. 
86 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) The following table summarizes option activity for the years ended October 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000: The following table summarizes options exercisable and the fair value of options granted: 87 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) The following table summarizes information about all options outstanding at October 31, 2002: Pro forma information. 
We have elected to follow the accounting provisions of APB No. 25 for stock-based compensation granted to employees. Accordingly, compensation expense is recognized only when options are granted with a discounted exercise price. Any compensation expense is recognized ratably over the associated service period, which is generally the option vesting term. 
Pro forma net (loss) earnings and net (loss) earnings per share information, as required by SFAS No. 123, Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation ( SFAS No. 123 ), has been determined as if we had accounted for all employee stock options granted, including shares under the 423(b) Plan to employees under SFAS No. 123 s fair value method. The fair value of these options was estimated at grant date using a Black-Scholes option-pricing model with the following weighted-average assumptions: 88 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) For purposes of pro forma disclosures, the estimated fair value of the options is amortized to expense over the four-year average vesting period of the options. The pro forma effect of recognizing compensation expense in accordance with SFAS No. 123 is as follows: 15. Retirement Plans and Post Retirement Benefits General. 
Substantially all of our employees are covered under various defined benefit and/or defined contribution plans. Additionally, we sponsor post retirement health care benefits and a death benefit under the Agilent Survivor Protection Plan for our eligible U.S. employees. 
Restructuring. 
Beginning in late 2001, we carried out plans to reduce our workforce by approximately 8,000 employees. In the U.S., employees affected by restructuring were offered a choice of remaining in the Agilent Retirement Plan (the Retirement Plan ) or taking a distribution from the Retirement Plan. In the funded status table below, amounts relating to settlements of benefit obligations due to employees affected by restructuring are treated as regular plan payments. Additionally, eligible employees (i.e., those who met eligibility requirements as of their individual termination dates) were offered the opportunity to elect to receive benefits under the Agilent Continued Group Medical or SeniorMed Programs. Outside the U.S., subject to local statutory and other practical limitations, employees affected by restructuring were offered the choice of remaining in the applicable retirement plans or taking distributions from those plans. 
Sale of healthcare solutions business. 
In the U.S., employees of the healthcare solutions business ( HSG Employees ) were offered a choice of remaining in the Retirement Plan or taking a distribution from the Retirement Plan. In the funded status table below, amounts relating to settlements of HSG Employees benefit obligations are treated as regular plan payments. Additionally, eligible HSG Employees (i.e., those who qualified for retirement on August 1, 2001) were offered the opportunity to elect to receive benefits under the Agilent Continued Group Medical or SeniorMed Programs. Outside the U.S., subject to local statutory and other practical limitations, HSG Employees projected benefit obligations calculated in accordance with the Asset Purchase Agreement were transferred to Philips along with an equal amount of assets. Amounts reported in this footnote reflect our continuing operations excluding the healthcare solutions business, except where noted. 
Workforce-related events such as restructuring cause curtailment and settlement gains or losses when they have a material impact on the average future working lifetime or total number of participants in our retirement and postretirement plans. The restructuring program and the sale of our healthcare solutions business described above both resulted in material changes to our plan demographics in the U.S. and several other countries. The curtailment and settlement gains and losses related to each event are separately identified in the tables that follow. 
89 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Spin-off from Hewlett-Packard. 
On or before June 2, 2000, we assumed responsibility for pension, deferred profit-sharing, 401(k) and other post retirement benefits from Hewlett-Packard for current and former employees whose last work assignment prior to the spin-off was with Agilent. These current and former employees are collectively referred to as Agilent Employees. In the U.S., the Hewlett-Packard Company Retirement Plan and Deferred Profit-Sharing Plan Master Trust was converted to the Group Trust for the Hewlett-Packard Company Deferred Profit-Sharing Plan and Retirement Plan and the Agilent Technologies, Inc. Deferred Profit-Sharing Plan and Retirement Plan (the Group Trust ), and a pro rata share of the assets of the Group Trust was assigned to the Agilent Deferred Profit-Sharing Plan Trust and the Agilent Retirement Plan Trust. Outside the U.S., generally, a pro rata share of the Hewlett-Packard pension assets, if any, were transferred or otherwise assigned to the Agilent entity in accordance with local law or practice. The pro rata share was in the same proportion as the projected benefit obligation for Agilent Employees was to the total projected benefit obligation of Hewlett-Packard and Agilent combined. For all periods presented, the consolidated financial statements include the trust assets, liabilities and expenses that were assigned to Agilent. 
Pension and deferred profit-sharing plans. 
Worldwide pension costs included in (loss) earnings from continuing operations were $112 million in 2002, $106 million in 2001 and $69 million in 2000. 
U.S. employees who meet eligibility criteria under the Retirement Plan are provided pension benefits under the Retirement Plan. Defined benefits are generally based on an employee s average pay during the final five years of employment and length of service. For eligible service through October 31, 1993, the benefit payable under the Retirement Plan is reduced by any amounts due to the eligible employee under our fixed and frozen defined contribution Deferred Profit-Sharing Plan ( DPSP ), which was closed to new participants in November 1993. 
As of October 31, 2002 and 2001, the status of the Retirement Plan and DPSP for U.S. Agilent Employees follows. 
Eligible employees outside the U.S. generally receive retirement benefits under various retirement plans based upon factors such as years of service and employee compensation levels. Eligibility is generally determined in accordance with local statutory requirements. 
Post retirement benefit plans. 
In addition to receiving pension benefits, U.S. Agilent Employees who meet retirement eligibility requirements as of their termination dates may participate in our Continued Group Medical or SeniorMed Plans. Substantially all of our current U.S. employees could become eligible for these benefits, and the existing benefit obligation relates primarily to those employees. Once participating in a medical plan, retirees may choose from managed-care and indemnity options, with their contributions dependent on the options chosen and length of service. Our U.S. retirees are also covered by a death benefit that is part of the Agilent Survivor Protection Plan. This benefit provides a fixed sum to retirees survivors and is available to all retirees regardless of length of service or compensation. 
401(k) defined contribution plan. 
Our U.S. eligible employees may participate in the Agilent Technologies, Inc. 401(k) Plan ( the 401(k) Plan ). Assets and liabilities related to Agilent Employees 90 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) were transferred to us by Hewlett-Packard effective June 2, 2000. Enrollment in the 401(k) Plan is automatic for employees who meet eligibility requirements unless they decline participation. Under the 401(k) Plan, we provide matching contributions to employees up to a maximum of 4 percent of an employee s annual eligible compensation. The maximum contribution to the 401(k) Plan is 20 percent of an employee s annual eligible compensation, subject to regulatory and plan limitations. Our expense included in earnings (loss) from continuing operations related to the 401(k) Plan was $43 million in 2002, $53 million in 2001 and $48 million in 2000. 
Components of net periodic cost. 
For the years ended October 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000, our net pension and post retirement benefit costs were comprised of: 91 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Funded status. 
As of October 31, 2002 and 2001, the funded status of the defined benefit and post retirement benefit plans was: 92 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Plan assets consist primarily of listed stocks and bonds. Our Retirement Plan assets are allocated 80 percent to equities and 20 percent to fixed income investments. Our DPSP assets are allocated 60 percent to equities and 40 percent to fixed income investments. Allocation between equities and fixed income investments varies by plan in countries outside the U.S., but all plans assets are broadly diversified both domestically and overseas. 
As of October 31, 2002, all of our defined benefit plans had benefit obligations that were in excess of the fair value of the plan assets; at the end of 2001, four of our plans outside the U.S. did not have obligations in excess of assets. The amounts of the obligations and assets for the underfunded plans only were: An additional minimum pension liability adjustment was required for our pension plans in Germany, Japan and the United Kingdom during 2002 as the accumulated benefit obligation of $529 million for those plans exceeded the $441 million of pension plan assets for those plans as of the measurement date. The $88 million difference was increased by $142 million for net prepaid pension costs for all of the affected plans and reduced by $6 million for intangible assets in the United Kingdom s plan and one of the Japanese plans, resulting in a gross additional minimum pension 93 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) liability of $224 million. Of this amount, $146 million impacted accumulated comprehensive loss, offset by $78 million applied to deferred tax assets. 
Assumptions. 
The assumptions used to determine the benefit obligations and expense for our defined benefit and postretirement benefit plans are presented in the table below. The impacts of the assumptions listed for the years 2002, 2001 and 2000 have already been recognized in our consolidated statement of operations. The assumptions for the year 2003 were used to determine the obligations presented as of October 31, 2002 in the funded status table above, and their impacts will be recognized in our consolidated statements of operations during 2003. 
Assumed health care trend rates could have a significant effect on the amounts reported for health care plans. A 1 percentage point change in the assumed health care cost trend rates for the year ended October 31, 2003 would have the following effects: 94 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 16. Other Accrued Liabilities Other accrued liabilities and other long-term liabilities at October 31, 2002 and 2001 were as follows: 17. Senior Convertible Debentures and Lines of Credit Senior Convertible Debentures. 
On November 27, 2001, we completed a private offering of $1.15 billion aggregate principal amount of 3 percent senior convertible debentures (the debentures ) due 2021 and generated net proceeds of $1.12 billion after deducting fees and expenses. A registration statement filed on behalf of certain holders of the debentures became effective on April 11, 2002. The debentures are convertible at any time into our common stock at an initial conversion price of $32.22 per share, subject to adjustment (as defined in the related Indenture agreement dated November 27, 2001) and are redeemable at the company s option beginning at any time on or after December 6, 2004. Holders of the debentures have the ability to require us to repurchase the debentures, in whole or in part, on specified dates in 2006, 2011 and 2016. Holders also have the right to require us to repurchase all or a portion of the outstanding debentures if the company undergoes a Fundamental Change (as defined in the Indenture agreement), at a price equal to 100 percent of the principal amount plus interest. The debentures bear interest at an annual rate of 3 percent, which is payable on June 1 and December 1 of each year beginning June 1, 2002. The interest rate will reset (as defined in the Indenture agreement) in June 2006, June 2011 and June 2016, but in no event will it be reset below 3 percent or above 5 percent per annum. To date there have been no adjustments to the conversion price of the debentures. 
Lines of Credit. 
Effective November 1, 2002, we terminated our $250 million five-year revolving credit facility that was due to expire on November 5, 2005 and did not extend the $250 million 364-day revolving credit facility that expired on November 1, 2002. We did not have plans to use these credit facilities, and we believe that the costs of renewing and/or retaining these credit facilities outweighed their benefits. There were no balances outstanding under either facility at October 31, 2002 or October 31, 2001. 
95 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 18. Commitments Operating Lease Commitments. 
We lease certain real and personal property from unrelated third parties under non-cancelable operating leases. Future minimum lease payments under leases at October 31, 2002 were $91 million for 2003, $78 million for 2004, $65 million for 2005, $50 million for 2006, $39 million for 2007 and $84 million thereafter. Certain leases require us to pay property taxes, insurance and routine maintenance, and include escalation clauses. Rent expense was $177 million in 2002, $100 million in 2001 and $69 million in 2000. 
19. Contingencies We are involved in lawsuits, claims, investigations and proceedings, including patent, commercial and environmental matters that arise in the ordinary course of business. There are no such matters pending that we expect to be material in relation to our business, consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 
20. Segment Information Description of segments. 
We are a diversified technology company that provides enabling solutions to customers in markets within the communications, electronics, life sciences and chemical analysis industries. 
We organize our business operations into three major groups test and measurement, semiconductor products, and life sciences and chemical analysis each of which comprises a reportable segment. The segments were determined based primarily on how management views and evaluates our operations. Other factors, including customer base, homogeneity of products, technology and delivery channels, were also considered in determining our reportable segments. 
Our three reportable segments are: Segment revenue and profit. 
The accounting policies used to derive reportable segment results are generally the same as those described in Note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies. In 2000, internal revenue and earnings from continuing operations include transactions between segments that are intended to reflect an arm s length transfer at the best price available for comparable external customers. 
A significant portion of the segments expenses arise from shared services and infrastructure that we have historically provided to the segments in order to realize economies of scale and to efficiently use resources. These expenses include costs of centralized research and development, legal, accounting, employee benefits, real estate, insurance services, information technology services, 96 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) treasury and other corporate infrastructure expenses. These expenses are allocated to the segments and the allocations have been determined on a basis that we considered to be a reasonable reflection of the utilization of services provided to or benefits received by the segments. A different result might be arrived at for any segment if costs were specifically identified to each segment. 
In 2002 management changed the methods by which corporate charges were allocated to the segments. This change impacted cost of goods and services, research and development and selling, general and administrative expenses and (loss) earnings from operations recorded by each of the segments. Depreciation for each segment is no longer presented separately to management and consequently it has been excluded from the disclosure below. Information provided with respect to prior periods has been restated to reflect these changes. 
The following tables reflect the results of our reportable segments under our management reporting system. These results are not necessarily a depiction that is in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. The performance of each segment is measured based on several metrics, including (loss) earnings from operations. These results are used, in part, by management in evaluating the performance of, and in allocating resources to, each of the segments. 
97 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Reconciliation to our reported results: 98 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Major Customers. 
No customer represented 10 percent or more of our total net revenue in 2002, 2001 or 2000. 
The equity investment totals disclosed for each segment represent equity method investments directly managed by the segment. 
Total segment assets at October 31, 2000 excluded $698 million of assets allocated to the healthcare solutions business which were determined under our management reporting system. Net investment in discontinued operations at October 31, 2000 of $597 million was determined using accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. 
Geographic Information 99 QUARTERLY SUMMARY (Unaudited) 100 NOTES: 101 SIGNATURES Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized. 
Date: December 20, 2002 POWER OF ATTORNEY KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that each person whose signature appears below constitutes and appoints D. Craig Nordlund and Marie Oh Huber, or either of them, his or her attorneys-in-fact, for such person in any and all capacities, to sign any amendments to this report and to file the same, with exhibits thereto, and other documents in connection therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby ratifying and confirming all that either of said attorneys-in-fact, or substitute or substitutes, may do or cause to be done by virtue hereof. Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated. 
102 103 I, Edward W. Barnholt, certify that: Date: December 20, 2002 104 I, Adrian T. Dillon, certify that: Date: December 20, 2002 105 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES INC. 