http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1090872/000104746909010861/a2195875z10-k.htm
http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1090872/000104746909010861/0001047469-09-010861-index.html
5753000000.0
A
2009-10-31
10-K
A_2009-10-31_10-K.txt

 Item 1A and elsewhere in this Form 10-K. 

PART I Item 1. 

Business Overview Agilent Technologies, Inc. ("we", "Agilent" or the "company"), incorporated in Delaware in May 1999, is the world's premier measurement company providing core bio-analytical and electronic measurement solutions to the communications, electronics, life sciences and chemical analysis industries. 

For the fiscal year ended October 31, 2009, we have three business segments comprised of the electronic measurement business, the bio-analytical measurement business and the semiconductor and board test business. Our electronic measurement business focuses on the communications and electronics industries. Our bio-analytical measurement business focuses on the life sciences industry and in the environmental, chemical, food and petrochemical industries. Our semiconductor and board test business provides standard and customized measurement instruments and systems which enable customers to develop and test state-of-the-art semiconductors, test and inspect printed circuit boards, perform functional testing, and measure position and distance information to the sub-nanometer level. In addition to our three businesses, we conduct centralized research through Agilent Technologies Laboratories ("Agilent Labs"). Each of our businesses, including Agilent Labs, is supported by our global infrastructure organization, which provides shared services in the areas of finance, information technology, legal, workplace services and human resources. 

We sell our products primarily through direct sales, but we also utilize distributors, resellers, manufacturer's representatives, telesales and electronic commerce. Of our total net revenue of $4.48 billion for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2009, we generated 33 percent in the U.S. and 67 percent outside the U.S. As of October 31, 2009, we employed approximately 16,800 people worldwide. Our primary research and development and manufacturing sites are in California, Colorado, Delaware and Washington in the U.S. and in China, Germany, India, Japan, Malaysia, Singapore and the United Kingdom. 

Beginning in the first fiscal quarter of 2010, we will form three new operating segments from our existing businesses. The bio-analytical measurement segment will be separated into two operating segments life sciences and chemical analysis. The electronic measurement segment will recombine 3 electronic measurement and semiconductor and board test, which were reported separately in 2009. Following this reorganization, Agilent will have three businesses life sciences, chemical analysis and electronic measurement each of which will comprise a reportable segment. More details on these changes are included under the heading of 2010 Segment Reporting Changes within Management's Discussion and Analysis. The business description in this Item 1 reflects the three segment structure as of and for the year ended October 31, 2009. 

The net revenue, income from operations and assets by business segment, as they were structured, as of and for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2009 and for each of the past three years are shown in Note 21, "Segment Information", to our consolidated financial statements, which we incorporate by reference herein. 

Electronic Measurement Business Our electronic measurement business provides standard and customized electronic measurement instruments and systems monitoring, management and optimization tools for communications networks and services, software design tools and related services that are used in the design, development, manufacture, installation, deployment and operation of electronics equipment and communications networks and services. Related services include start-up assistance, instrument productivity and application services and instrument calibration and repair. We also offer customization, consulting and optimization services throughout the customer's product lifecycle. 

Our electronic measurement business employed approximately 8,800 people as of October 31, 2009. Our electronic measurement business generated $2.3 billion in revenue in fiscal 2009, $3.2 billion in revenue in fiscal 2008, and $3.1 billion in revenue in fiscal 2007. 

Electronic Measurement Markets Our electronic measurement products serve the following markets: The Communications Test Market We market our communications test products and services to network equipment manufacturers ("NEMs"), handset manufacturers, and communications service providers. NEMs manufacture and sell products to facilitate the transmission of voice, data and video traffic. The NEMs' customers are the distributors of end-user subscriber devices, including wireless personal communication devices and set-top boxes, as well as communications service providers that deploy and operate the networks and services. To meet their customers' demands, NEMs require test and measurement instruments, systems and solutions for the development, production and installation of each network technology. 

Communications service providers require reliable network equipment that enables new service offerings and allows their networks to operate at ever-increasing capacities. To achieve this, communications service providers require a range of sophisticated test instruments and systems to monitor and evaluate network performance and to identify any sources of communications failure. 

Handset manufacturers require test and measurement products for the design, development, manufacture and repair of mobile handsets. These mobile handsets are used for voice, data and video delivery to individuals who connect wirelessly to the service provider's network. The handset manufacturers' primary customers are large and small service providers. The handset manufacturers require test and measurement products that enable technology development in conformance with the latest communications standards. 

4 The communications test market accounted for approximately 39 percent of revenue from our electronic measurement business in 2009. 

The General Purpose Test Market We market our general purpose test products and services to the electronics industry and other industries with significant electronic content such as the aerospace and defense, computer and semiconductor industries. These electronics and electronics-dependent industries design, develop and manufacture a wide range of products, including those produced in high volumes, such as computers, computer peripherals, electronic components, consumer electronics, enterprise servers, storage networks and communications devices, and automotive electronics. The components, printed circuit assemblies and functional devices for these products may be designed, developed and manufactured by electronic components companies, by original equipment manufacturers or by contract manufacturers. 

We address the biology, life sciences and material science markets by providing microscopy and nanoindentation. Current technology platforms include the atomic force microscope and nano indenters. 

For the development and timely commercialization of new technologies, manufacturers require state-of-the-art test instruments, systems and design software in order to design products for efficient and cost-effective manufacturing and to validate product performance in a variety of configurations and environments. 

Customers use our general purpose test solutions in developing and manufacturing a wide variety of electronic components and systems. These customers' test requirements include testing the electrical parameters of digital, radio frequency, and microwave frequency components and assemblies; testing multiple parameters of the printed circuit boards used in almost every electronic device; testing of the final product; and testing of systems containing multiple electronic instruments. For nanotechnology applications, customers use our products to study biological samples at the cellular and molecular level including imaging of DNA and proteins, and to study and research polymers, electrochemistry, and thin films. 

The general purpose test market accounted for approximately 61 percent of revenue from our electronic measurement business in 2009. 

Electronic Measurement Products We divide our electronic measurement products into communications test products and general purpose test products. 

Communications Test Products We sell communications test products and services for a wide range of communications networks and systems including wireless communications and microwave networks, voice, broadband, data, and fiber optic networks. In addition, we provide assistance with installation and maintenance of our products and network assurance systems to enable network operators to maximize network utilization, uptime and quality of service. 

Our wireless communications and microwave network products include radio frequency and microwave test instruments and electronic design automation software tools. These products are required for the design and production of wireless network products, communications links, cellular 5 handsets and base stations, as well as satellite and aerospace defense systems. Test products include Electronic Design Automation ("EDA") software, vector and signal analyzers, signal generators, vector network analyzers, and one box testers. 

Our distributed network analyzer product line offers a wide range of capabilities to monitor and troubleshoot wireless networks, high-speed local area networks, wide area networks and asynchronous transfer mode networks carrying multiservice traffic. 

Our suite of fiber optic test products measure and analyze a wide variety of critical optical and electrical parameters in fiber optic networks and their components. Components which can be tested with Agilent solutions include source lasers, optical amplifiers, filters and other passive components. Test products include optical component analyzers, optical power meters, and optical spectrum analyzers. 

Our installation and maintenance assistance facilitates the installation, commission and activation of networks and services. We have a breadth of products for troubleshooting and maintaining optical, wireless, wireline and large-company networks. 

Our network assurance products assist network operators in managing the capacity performance and quality of network service and customer experience for broadband, data, wireless and converged next-generation networks and services. 

General Purpose Test Products We sell the following types of products into the general purpose test market: general purpose instruments, modular instruments and test software, digital test design products, high frequency electronic design tools, and electronics manufacturing test equipment. 

General purpose instruments are used principally by engineers in research and development laboratories, manufacturing, and calibration and service, for measuring voltage, current, frequency, signal pulse width, modulation and other complex electronics measurements. Our general purpose products include spectrum analyzers, network analyzers, signal generators, logic analyzers, digitizing oscilloscopes, voltmeters, multimeters, frequency counters, bench and system power supplies, function generators and waveform synthesizers. 

Modular instruments and test software are used by the designers and manufacturers of electronic devices as the building blocks of systems that can be configured for a wide variety of test applications, and changed as needed by a combination of modular hardware and software components. Examples include test systems for aviation systems maintenance and multi-function university labs. 

Our digital test products are used by research and development engineers across a broad range of industries to validate the function and performance of their digital product and system designs. These designs include a wide range of products from simple digital control circuits to complex high speed systems such as computer servers and the latest generation gaming consoles. The test products offered include high-performance oscilloscopes, logic and serial protocol analyzers, logic-signal sources and data generators. 

Our high-frequency electronic design automation software tools are used by radio frequency integrated circuit design engineers to model, simulate and analyze communications product designs at the circuit and system levels. Agilent's products in this area are well-established software platforms within the wireless and the aerospace and defense design industries. Our customers are also applying 6 this technology more frequently to model signal integrity problems in digital design applications as digital speeds continue to increase. 

Our atomic force microscopes ("AFM") are high-resolution imaging devices that can resolve features as small as an atomic lattice. An AFM allows researchers to observe and manipulate molecular and atomic level features. Our expanding portfolio of AFM products provides customers with reliable, easy-to-use tools for a wide range of nanotechnology applications, including semiconductor, data storage, polymers, materials science and life science studies. 

Electronic Measurement Customers Agilent's electronic measurement customers include contract manufacturers of electronic products, handset manufacturers and network equipment manufacturers who design, develop, manufacture and install network equipment, and service providers who implement, maintain and manage communication networks and services. Our customers use our products to conduct research and development, manufacture, install and maintain radio frequency, microwave frequency, digital, and optical products and systems and conduct nanotechnology research. Many of our customers purchase solutions across several of our major product lines for their different business units. 

We had approximately 17,000 customers for electronic measurement products in fiscal 2009 and no single customer represented greater than 3 percent of net revenue of the electronic measurement business. 

The orders and revenues from many of the electronic measurement markets and product categories are seasonal, traditionally marked by lower business levels in the first quarter of the fiscal year and higher volumes in the fourth quarter of the fiscal year. This seasonality is particularly evident in products that we sell into the aerospace and defense industry, as well as those linked to consumer spending, which includes some of our communications test equipment. The seasonal impact of our business is tempered by the diversity of our electronic measurement products and customers, which span multiple industries. 

Electronic Measurement Sales, Marketing and Support We have a focused sales strategy, using a direct sales force, resellers, manufacturer's representatives and distributors to meet our customers' needs. Our direct sales force is focused on identifying customer needs and recommending solutions involving the effective use and deployment of our equipment, services, systems and capabilities. Some members of our direct sales force focus on global accounts, providing uniform services on a worldwide basis. Others focus on our more complex products such as our communications network assurance systems, where customers require intensive strategic consultation. Our sales force also engages with the contract manufacturer market by collaborating with original equipment manufacturers to specify our test equipment for contract manufacturer test applications, as well as marketing to contract manufacturers directly. 

Our direct sales force consists of field engineers and systems engineers who have in-depth knowledge of the customers' business and technology needs. Our systems engineers provide a combination of consulting, systems integration and application and software engineering services and are instrumental in all stages of the sale, implementation and support of our complex systems and solutions. 

To complement our direct sales force we have agreements with many channel partners around the world. These partners, including resellers, manufacturer's representatives, and distributors, serve Agilent's customers across a number of product lines and provide the same level of service and support 7 expected from our direct channel. Lower volume transactions can also be served by our tele-sales and electronic commerce channels. 

Our products typically come with standard warranties, and extended warranties are available at additional cost. 

Electronic Measurement Manufacturing We concentrate our electronic measurement manufacturing efforts primarily on final assembly and test of our products. To maximize our productivity and our ability to respond to market conditions, we use contract manufacturers for the production of printed circuit boards, sheet metal fabrication, metal die-casting, plastic molding and standard electronic components. We also manufacture proprietary devices and assemblies in our own fabrication facilities for competitive advantage. We have manufacturing facilities in Arizona, California, Colorado and Washington in the U.S. Outside of the U.S., we have manufacturing facilities in China, Germany, Japan, Malaysia and Switzerland. 

We generally only manufacture products when we have received firm orders for delivery and do not generally hold large stocks of finished inventory. 

Electronic Measurement Competition The market for electronic measurement equipment is highly competitive. Our electronic measurement business competes with a number of significant competitors in all our major product categories and across our targeted industries. In the communications test market our primary competitors are Aeroflex Incorporated, Anritsu Corporation, Ansoft Corporation (a subsidiary of Ansys Corporation), Applied Wave Research, Inc., EXFO Electro-Optical Engineering, Inc., JDS Uniphase, Rohde & Schwartz GmbH & Co. KG, Spirent plc and Tektronix, Inc. (a subsidiary of Danaher Corporation). In the general purpose test market, we compete against companies such as Fluke Corporation (a subsidiary of Danaher Corporation), Hysitron, Inc., Keithley Instruments, Inc., LeCroy Corporation, National Instruments Corporation, Photon Dynamics, Inc., SII NanoTechnology Inc., Tektronix, Inc. (a subsidiary of Danaher Corporation), Veeco Instruments Inc. and Wintest Corp. 

Our electronic measurement business offers a wide range of products, and these products compete primarily on the basis of product quality and functionality, as well as performance and reliability. 

Bio-Analytical Measurement Business Our bio-analytical measurement business provides application-focused solutions that include instruments, software, consumables and services that enable customers to identify, quantify and analyze the physical and biological properties of substances and products. Our key product categories include: liquid chromatography, gas chromatography, mass spectrometry, microarrays, inductively coupled plasma mass spectroscopy, microfluidics, electrophoresis, laboratory automation and robotics, Polymerase Chain Reaction ("PCR") instrumentation, software and informatics, and related bioreagents, consumables and services. 

We employed approximately 5,100 people as of October 31, 2009 in our bio-analytical measurement business. This business generated revenue of $2.1 billion in fiscal 2009, $2.2 billion in fiscal 2008 and $1.9 billion in fiscal 2007. 

8 Bio-Analytical Measurement Markets Primarily, our bio-analytical measurement business serves the following markets: Life Sciences Markets Our life science markets accounted for approximately 47 percent of revenue from our bio-analytical measurement business in 2009. Within the life sciences, we focus on the following two primary market categories: The Pharma, Biotech, CRO & CMO Market. 

This market consists of "for-profit" companies who participate across the pharmaceutical value chain in the areas of therapeutic research, discovery & development, clinical trials, and manufacturing and quality assurance and quality control. One sub-segment of this market is core and emerging pharmaceutical companies, or "Pharma". A second sub-segment includes biotechnology companies, or "biotech", contract research organizations, or "CROs", and contract manufacturing organizations, or "CMOs". Biotech and, to a somewhat lesser extent, CROs and CMOs typically participate in specific points in the Pharma industry value chain. 

The Academic and Government Market. 

This market consists primarily of "not-for-profit" organizations and includes academic institutions, large government institutes and privately funded organizations. The academic and government market plays an influential role in technology adoption and therapeutic developments for Pharma and molecular diagnostics companies. After decades of investment in basic biomedical research, the focus has widened to include translational research multidisciplinary scientific efforts directed at "accelerating therapy development". Notable are efforts by the National Institute of Health, the National Cancer Institute, the European Organisation for Research and the Treatment of Cancer (EORTC), the European Molecular Biology Laboratory (EMBL), the Genomics Institute of Singapore (GIS), the Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute, and the National Translational Cancer Research Network (NTRAC). In addition, large donations by private foundations are also fueling growth in this key market segment. 

Chemical Analysis Markets Our chemical analysis markets accounted for approximately 53 percent of revenue from the bio-analytical measurement business in 2009. Within chemical analysis, we focus primarily on the following areas: petrochemical and chemical, environmental, forensics and homeland security, and bioagriculture and food safety. 

The Petrochemical and Chemical Market. 

The natural gas and petroleum refining markets use our products to measure and control the quality of their finished products and to verify the environmental safety of their operations. Petroleum refiners use our measurement solutions to analyze crude oil composition, perform raw material analysis, verify and improve refining processes and ensure the overall quality of gasoline, fuels, lubricants and other products. Solutions based on gas chromatography, liquid chromatography and mass spectrometry products are also used in the development, manufacturing and quality control of fine chemicals. Our gas chromatographs are also used to monitor consistent quality in the delivery of natural gas. 

The Environmental Market. 

Our gas chromatography, liquid chromatography and mass spectrometry solutions are used by the environmental market for applications such as laboratory and field analysis of chemical pollutants in air, water, soil and solid waste. Environmental industry customers include all levels of government, the industrial and manufacturing sectors, engineering and consulting companies, commercial testing laboratories and colleges and universities. 

9 The Forensics and Homeland Security Market. 

Our liquid chromatography, gas chromatography, mass spectrometry and electrophoresis solutions are used by health and forensics laboratories in the U.S. and abroad, particularly in the analysis of evidence associated with crime or with the detection and identification of biological and chemical warfare agents. This instrumentation is either used in static or mobile laboratories. Customers include local, state, federal, and international law enforcement agencies and health laboratories. 

The Bioagriculture and Food Safety Market. 

Food safety industries apply the same general technologies for chemical analysis as the pharmaceutical and environmental markets, including gas and liquid chromatography and mass spectrometry. For example, our mass spectrometer portfolio, including triple quad liquid chromatography mass spectrometers, is used to analyze contaminants and residual pesticides in food. There is a significant food safety market involved in analyzing food for pathogen contamination, accurate verification of species type and evidence of genetically modified content. This testing is primarily done via PCR amplification of nucleic acid followed by electrophoresis, real time fluorescent or microarray detection. Additionally, bioagriculture industries seek to improve crops and foods by conducting research on these organisms, as well as testing for genetically modified content, using microarray and microfluidics solutions. 

Bio-Analytical Measurement Products A key factor in all of our bio-analytical measurement target markets is the need for new products that increase customer productivity and provide high quality data that enable decision-making by our customers. Our key product segments include: Liquid Chromatography Products A liquid chromatograph ("LC") or a high performance liquid chromatograph ("HPLC") is used to separate molecules of a liquid mixture to determine the quantity and identity of the molecules present. Used when sample vaporization is not an option, LC also separates and detects compounds to determine molecular identity and quantity. Our LC instruments are modular in construction and can be configured to form instruments that perform specific analyses. Agilent's HPLC system, the Agilent 1100 Series, has sold over 60,000 systems since its introduction, and in 2006 was replaced by its successor, the advanced 1200 Series Rapid Resolution Liquid Chromatography ("RRLC") System. The 1200 Series is highly flexible, known for its unique capability to switch between ultra high-performance liquid chromatography ("UHPLC") capability of RRLC mode and conventional HPLC mode. As a leader in liquid chromatography, we continue to expand our application space with new HPLC columns and ongoing product enhancements. In fiscal 2009 we introduced the 1290 Infinity Liquid Chromatography System, designed to deliver significantly greater power, speed and sensitivity for enhanced performance in the UHPLC market. Our leading edge innovation, HPLC-Chip, is fully commercialized and expanding demand for nano LC solutions across many markets. In fiscal 2009 we introduced a new HPLC-Chip that dramatically simplifies the analysis of phosphopeptides in proteomics research. The Phosphochip is used with Agilent HPLC-Chip/MS instrumentation to identify post-translational modifications ("PTMs") as part of regulating biological pathways. 

Gas Chromatography Products Agilent is the world's leading provider of gas chromatographs, both laboratory and portable models. A gas chromatograph ("GC") is used to separate any gas, liquid or solid that can be vaporized and then detect the molecules present to determine their identity and quantity. We continue to expand the application space for our GCs with the development of new separation columns and product enhancements. Over the last three years, Agilent has introduced updated and advanced models of all of its major gas chromatography platforms, including the launch of the 7890A Gas Chromatograph which 10 replaced the 6890A, the world's most popular Gas Chromatograph. Our advances in GC Capillary Flow Technology provide an effective alternative to more costly and problematic cryogenic solutions in GC X GC applications, and solve practical data quality and throughput problems for customers. Our acquisition of RVM Scientific in fiscal 2008 added rapid, direct heating/cooling systems for GC that greatly reduces GC and GC/MS analytical cycle times, addressing customers' demand for greater productivity, lower power consumption and a reduced footprint. In fiscal 2009 we introduced the 7693A Series Automatic Liquid Sampler ("ALS"), offering substantial gains in throughput, flexibility, sample-preparation automation and serviceability for the current and previous benchtop model GCs. 

Mass Spectrometry Products A mass spectrometer ("MS") identifies and quantifies chemicals based on a chemical's molecular mass and ion characteristic patterns of fragment masses that result when a molecule is broken apart. Mass spectrometry is an important tool in analyzing proteins and other biological entities that undergo transformations because it enables the understanding and characterization of their many different states. MS systems are typically used in combination with gas or liquid chromatographs. Agilent's MS portfolio includes instruments built around five main configurations single quadrupole, triple quadrupole, ion trap, time-of-flight ("TOF") and quadrupole time-of-flight. We significantly expanded our mass spectrometry portfolio over the past three years with a focus on reliability, sensitivity and ease of use. In fiscal 2009 we introduced the 6540 Ultra- High-Definition ("UHD") Accurate-Mass Quadrupole Time-of-Flight ("Q-TOF"), the 6430 triple quadrupole, and the 6230 Accurate-Mass time-of-flight liquid chromatograph/mass spectrometer ("LC/MS") systems. These new platforms serve new and growing markets for Agilent. 

Inductively Coupled Plasma Mass Spectrometry Products Agilent is a leading worldwide provider of inductively coupled plasma mass spectroscopy ("ICP-MS") solutions. ICP-MS is an analytical technique used for trace elemental determinations with applications in a number of different fields including drinking water, wastewater, food and life sciences. Agilent's Octopole Reaction System ("ORS") removes interfering species using only inert helium gas, which vastly improves speed and accuracy. A growing trend in the world of elemental analysis has revolved around the speciation of certain metals such as chromium and arsenic. One of the primary techniques to achieve this is to use an ICP-MS in combination with an HPLC. In fiscal 2009 we introduced the 7700 Series ICP-MS trace element analyzer designed for greater performance and ease-of-use, which occupies the smallest amount of bench space of any ICP-MS instrument. 

Microarray Products Agilent is a leading worldwide provider of microarray-based, genomics research solutions. Our end-to-end solution includes reagents for sample preparation and microarray processing; hardware for sample QC and high-throughput microarray scanning; 60-mer oligo microarrays on industry-standard 1" 3" glass slides for gene expression; comparative genomic hybridization ("CGH")/Copy Number variation ("CNV") analysis, microRNA, methylation, splice variants, and chromatin immunoprecipitation applications; custom microarray design services; and GeneSpring software products for data analysis. Agilent is also a leading provider of target enrichment systems for next-generation sequencing platforms. 

Lab Automation and Robotics The acquisition of Velocity11 during fiscal 2008 enabled us to offer a more comprehensive suite of workflow solutions to our life science customers with the addition of automated liquid handling and robotics that range from standalone instrumentation to bench-top automation solutions to large, multi-armed robotic systems. These solutions strengthened our offering of automated sample-preparation 11 solutions across a broad range of applications. In fiscal 2009 we continued with our focus on automating laboratory processes by introducing the new Direct Drive Robot and VWorks Automation Control Software. The Direct Drive Robot advances high-throughput screening for drug-discovery research and can also be used in genomics applications, including DNA extraction and PCR sample preparation. 

Electrophoresis Products Electrophoresis is used in many scientific and applied disciplines, such as food identification or protein quality control, to separate, quantify, enrich and purify biomolecules which differ in their electrical charge or polarity. Agilent is a world leading supplier of innovative electrophoretic separation solutions. The 2100 Bioanalyzer analyzes biomolecules or cells in microfluidic networks of channels and wells etched into glass chips. The 3100 OFFGEL Fractionator resolves proteins or peptides by isoelectric point with liquid-phase recovery. In fiscal 2009 we introduced the 7100 Capillary Electrophoresis system, which seamlessly integrates with Agilent's MS systems, and is the most sensitive CE system on the market. 

PCR Instrumentation The acquisition of Stratagene Corporation during fiscal 2007 provided an expansion of our Life Science tools offering with the addition of tools and instrumentation for implementing PCR. PCR is used by scientists studying genetics to amplify or replicate a small amount of DNA to enable further analysis of the genes. Our portfolio of PCR instrumentation, reagents and kits, coupled with our other products such as microarrays and target enrichment systems for next-generation sequencing, provides a broad set of workflow solutions to customers in the genomics marketplace. 

Software and Informatics Products We provide software for instrument control, data acquisition, data analysis, laboratory content and business process management, and informatics. Our software facilitates the regulatory-compliant use of instruments in pharmaceutical quality assurance/quality control environments. With the acquisition of Stratagene Corporation we expanded our bioinformatics portfolio further through a relationship with Strand Genomics. We also augmented our data system capabilities through the 2007 acquisition of Kalabie, a provider of an electronic laboratory notebook (ELN) product. 

Bioreagents Bioreagents are the primary tools used by scientists in the Life Science market to interrogate cells, genes and proteins. These bioreagent products are used to conduct a variety of experiments necessary to understand both the form and function of biological entities. The acquisition of Stratagene Corporation provided an expansion of our Life Science tools offering with the addition of a portfolio of reagent products for Nucleic Acid Amplification (PCR) and quantitative real-time PCR (QPCR), Cloning, Mutagenesis, Cell Biology and other key life science applications. These reagent tools enable us to create a broad set of complete workflow solutions to meet customer needs across our Life Science markets. 

Consumables and Services We also offer a broad range of consumable products, which support our LC, GC, ICP-MS, and MS technology platforms. These consumable products include sample preparation products, self manufactured GC and LC columns, chemical standards, instrument replacement parts, and consumable supplies to meet our customers' analysis needs. All of our products are designed to Agilent's specifications to improve and maximize the performance of our instruments. 

12 We offer a wide range of startup, operational, educational and compliance support services for our measurement and data handling systems. Our support services include maintenance, troubleshooting, repair and training for all of our chemical and bioinstrumentation analysis hardware and software products. Special service bundles have also been designed to meet the specific application needs of various industries. 

Bio-Analytical Measurement Customers We have roughly 23,000 customers, and during fiscal 2009, no single customer represented greater than 3 percent of the net revenue of the business. The bio-analytical measurement business is susceptible to seasonality in its orders and revenues primarily based on U.S. government and large pharmaceutical company budgets. The result is that our first and fourth fiscal quarters tend to deliver the strongest profits for this group. However, general economic trends, new product introductions and competition might overshadow this trend in any given year. 

Bio-Analytical Measurement Sales, Marketing and Support Our sales and support delivery channels are aligned by key markets. We market products to our customers through direct sales, electronic commerce, resellers, manufacturers' representatives and distributors. Additionally, we are optimizing our worldwide distribution capabilities to address high-growth opportunities such as the environmental, food safety and biopharmaceutical markets in the Asia-Pacific region. 

We use direct sales to market our solutions to all of our pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical accounts, large- and medium-sized chemical customers and environmental accounts. Sales agents supplement direct sales by providing broader geographic coverage and coverage of smaller accounts. Our active reseller program augments our ability to provide more complete solutions to our customers. We sell our consumable products through distributors, telesales and electronic commerce. 

We deliver our support services to customers in a variety of ways, including on-site assistance with repair or exchange of returned products, telephone support and self-diagnostic services provided over the Internet. We also offer special industry-focused service bundles that are designed to meet the specific needs of hydrocarbon processing, environmental, pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical customers to keep instruments fully operational and compliant with the respective industry requirements. Our products typically come with standard warranties, and extended warranties are available for additional cost. 

Bio-Analytical Measurement Manufacturing Our manufacturing supports our diverse product range and customer-centric focus. We assemble highly configurable products to individual customer orders and make standard products to stock. We employ advanced manufacturing techniques and supply chain management systems to reduce costs and manufacturing cycle times. We selectively use third parties to provide some supply chain processes for manufacturing, warehousing and logistics. We have manufacturing facilities in California, Colorado, Texas and Delaware in the U.S. Outside of the U.S., we have manufacturing facilities in China, Germany, Scotland and Japan. We utilize just-in-time manufacturing and so typically do not maintain a high level of inventory. 

Bio-Analytical Measurement Competition The markets for analytical instruments in which we compete are characterized by evolving industry standards and intense competition. Our principal competitors in the life sciences arena include: Affymetrix, Inc., Illumina, Inc., GEHealthcare, Life Technologies Corp., Thermo Fisher 13 Scientific Inc. and Waters Corp. Our principal competitors in the chemical analysis arena include: Life Technologies Corp., Perkin Elmer Corp., Shimadzu Corporation, Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc. and Varian, Inc. Agilent competes on the basis of product performance, reliability, support quality, applications expertise, global channel coverage and price. 

Bio-Analytical Measurement Government Regulation The analysis products and related consumables marketed by our chemical analysis business are subject to regulation in the U.S. by the Environmental Protection Agency ("EPA") under the Toxic Substances Control Act and by government agencies in other countries under similar laws. The Toxic Substances Control Act regulations govern, among other things, the testing, manufacture, processing and distribution of chemicals, the testing of regulated chemicals for their effects on human health and safety and import and export of chemicals. The Toxic Substances Control Act prohibits persons from manufacturing any chemical in the U.S. that has not been reviewed by EPA for its effect on health and safety, and placed on an EPA inventory of chemical substances. Therefore, we must continually adapt our chemical analysis products to changing regulations. If we fail to comply with the notification, record-keeping and other requirements in the manufacture or distribution of our products, the EPA can obtain an order from a court that would prohibit the further distribution or marketing of a product that does not comply or we could face fines, civil penalties or criminal prosecution. 

Semiconductor and Board Test Business Our semiconductor and board test business provides standard and customized measurement instruments and systems which enable customers to develop and test state of the art semiconductors, test and inspect printed circuit boards, perform functional testing, and measure position and distance information to the sub-nanometer level. 

We employed approximately 700 people in our semiconductor and board test business as of October 31, 2009. Our semiconductor and board test business generated $0.2 billion in revenue in fiscal 2009, $0.4 billion in revenue in fiscal 2008 and $0.5 billion in revenue in fiscal 2007. 

Semiconductor and Board Test Markets Our semiconductor and board test business primarily serves the following markets: Semiconductor development and test The semiconductor development and test market consists of companies that design, test and manufacture semiconductor devices. Key market segments are semiconductor design companies, semiconductor foundry manufacturers, universities and research companies. Key sub-segments are integrated devices, memory devices and nanotechnology/microelectro-mechanical systems. Customers use our semiconductor parametric solutions to test the electrical parameters of wafers used in the semiconductor business. Our equipment is used to confirm specifications, improve yields and analyze new material properties. The instrumentation used consists of parametric test systems, parametric analyzers and source measure units. 

Semiconductor and flat panel display lithography This market consists of companies designing and selling lithography systems to the semiconductor and flat panel display manufacturers. The lithography business requires precise positioning for the shrinking semiconductor manufacturing dimensions. Our laser interferometer and nano positioning systems provide precise position or distance information. The Agilent solution is integrated into large lithography systems manufactured and sold by original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs"). 

14 Printed circuit board assembly and test Our semiconductor and board test products are used by electronic manufacturing services ("EMS") companies, contract manufacturers and OEMs that design, test, manufacture, distribute and service printed circuit board products. Printed circuit boards are used in all electronic products with the largest end-user markets being mobile phones, computers/PCs and telecommunications. Our test instruments, systems and software design tools are used to design products for efficient and cost-effective manufacturing, validate product performance in a variety of configurations and environments and to test an electronic device as it if were in use in its final environment. 

Semiconductor and Board Test Products Parametric Test Instruments and Systems We are one of the leading suppliers of parametric test instruments and systems which combine hardware technology and customizable system software and are used primarily to examine semiconductor wafers during the semiconductor manufacturing process. The 4070-series and 4080-series are parametric test system families used in manufacturing environments. The B1500-series achieves device characterization in a design and test environment. 

In-Circuit Board Test Systems The Agilent 3070 In-Circuit Test ("ICT") system is one of the world's best selling board test systems. The ICT system helps identify quality defects, such as faulty or incorrect parts, that affect electrical performance. This allows early repair of such defects. Agilent recently announced the Medalist i1000 ICT system focused on providing a lower cost test system. 

Laser Interferometer Position Measurement Systems Agilent provides precision optical systems that form the basis for our laser interferometry solutions. These systems provide very precise position or distance information for dimensional measurements or motion control. The Agilent solution includes laser heads, optical receivers, sensors and system electronics. Most systems are unique configurations based on customer requirements. Agilent also provides custom design work. 

Semiconductor and Board Test Customers We market our semiconductor and board test products to semiconductor design and manufacturing companies, research labs and universities, nanotechnology labs, contract manufacturers, original equipment manufacturers, semiconductor lithography original equipment manufacturers and machine tool calibrator OEMs. 

We had approximately 1,000 customers for semiconductor and board test products in fiscal 2009. One customer accounted for more than 10 percent of net semiconductor and board test segment revenue but less than 10 percent of consolidated Agilent revenue. The top three customers collectively accounted for more than 20 percent of net revenue of the semiconductor and board test business. The loss of any one of such customers could have a material adverse effect on the semiconductor and board test segment. 

The orders and revenues from the semiconductor and board test markets are seasonal, traditionally marked by lower business levels in the first quarter of the fiscal year, increasing volumes in the second and third quarters of the fiscal year, and fourth quarter volumes somewhere between the second and third quarters. 

15 Semiconductor and Board Test Sales, Marketing and Support We have a focused sales strategy with a specialized direct sales force, resellers and manufacturer's representatives. Our direct sales force is predominantly dedicated to semiconductor and board test product line sales only. They focus on identifying the needs of our largest customers. Resellers and manufacturer's representatives assist with integrated solutions and geographical coverage, respectively. The semiconductor and board test solutions require integration of equipment, application services, software and after-sale service contracts. 

The sales team works closely with original equipment manufacturers and their semiconductor foundry or contract manufacturing partner. The original equipment manufacturer often specifies the test equipment requirements, however the semiconductor foundry or contract manufacturer will purchase the equipment from Agilent or our channel partner. 

Semiconductor and Board Test Manufacturing We concentrate our semiconductor and board test manufacturing efforts primarily on final assembly and test of our products. To maximize our productivity and our ability to respond to market conditions, we use contract manufacturers for the production of printed circuit boards, sheet metal fabrication, metal die-casting, plastic molding and standard electronic components. We also manufacture proprietary devices and assemblies in our own fabrication facilities for competitive advantage. We have manufacturing facilities in California in the U.S. Outside of the U.S., we have manufacturing facilities in Japan and Malaysia. 

We generally only manufacture products when we have received firm orders for delivery and do not generally hold large stocks of finished inventory. 

Semiconductor and Board Test Competition Our semiconductor and board test business competes with a number of significant competitors in our major product categories and across our targeted industries. Our primary competitors are Keithley Instruments, Inc., Orbotech Ltd., Teradyne, Inc., TRI Test Research Inc., and Zygo Corporation. 

Our semiconductor and board test business products compete primarily on the basis of product quality and functionality, as well as performance and reliability. 

Agilent Technologies Research Laboratories Agilent Research Laboratories is our central research organization based in Santa Clara, California, with satellite offices in Beijing, China; Leuven, Belgium; and South Queensferry, Scotland. The Research Laboratories create competitive advantage through high-impact technology, driving market leadership and growth in Agilent's core businesses and expanding Agilent's measurement footprint into adjacent markets. At the cross-roads of the organization, the Research Labs are able to identify and enable synergies across Agilent's businesses to create competitive differentiation and compelling customer value. 

The technical staff have advanced degrees that cover a wide range of scientific and engineering fields, including biology, chemistry, computer science, distributed measurement, electrical engineering, image processing, materials science, mathematics, nano/microfabrication, microfluidics, software, informatics, optics, physics, physiology and signal processing. 

16 Global Infrastructure Organization We provide support to our businesses through our global infrastructure organization. This support includes services in the areas of finance, legal, workplace services, human resources and information technology. These organizations are generally headquartered in Santa Clara, California, with services provided worldwide. As of the end of October 2009, our global infrastructure organization employed approximately 2,200 people worldwide, which includes the Agilent Labs researchers described above. 

The following discussions of Research and Development, Backlog, Intellectual Property, Materials, Environmental, International Operations and Acquisition and Disposal of Material Assets include information common to each of our businesses. 

Research and Development Research and development ("R&D") expenditures were $642 million in 2009, $704 million in 2008 and $685 million in 2007, the vast majority of which was company-sponsored. We anticipate that we will continue to have significant R&D expenditures in order to maintain our competitive position with a continuing flow of innovative, high-quality products and services. 

Backlog On October 31, 2009, our unfilled orders for the electronic measurement business were approximately $630 million, as compared to approximately $610 million at October 31, 2008. On October 31, 2009, our unfilled orders for the bio-analytical measurement business were approximately $380 million, as compared to approximately $360 million at October 31, 2008. Within our semiconductor and board test business our unfilled orders were approximately $40 million on October 31, 2009 as compared to approximately $60 million at October 31, 2008. We expect that a large majority of the unfilled orders for all three businesses will be delivered to customers within six months. On average, our unfilled orders represent approximately two months' worth of revenues. In light of this experience, backlog on any particular date, while indicative of short-term revenue performance, is not necessarily a reliable indicator of medium or long-term revenue performance. 

Intellectual Property We generate patent and other intellectual property rights covering significant inventions and other innovations in order to create a competitive advantage. While we believe that our licenses, patents and other intellectual property rights have value, in general no single license, patent or other intellectual property right is in itself material. In addition, our intellectual property rights may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented or may otherwise not provide significant competitive advantage. 

Materials Our manufacturing operations employ a wide variety of semiconductors, electromechanical components and assemblies and raw materials such as plastic resins and sheet metal. Our electronic measurement, bio-analytical measurement and semiconductor and board test businesses all purchase materials from thousands of suppliers on a global basis. Some of the parts that require custom design work are not readily available from alternate suppliers due to their unique design or the length of time necessary for design work. Our long-term relationships with suppliers allow us to proactively manage technology road maps and product discontinuance plans and monitor their financial health. Even so, some suppliers may still extend their lead times, limit supplies, increase prices or cease to produce necessary parts for our products. If these are unique components, we may not be able to find a 17 substitute quickly or at all. To address the potential disruption in our supply chain, we use a number of techniques, including qualifying multiple sources of supply and redesign of products for alternative components. In addition, while we generally attempt to keep our inventory at minimal levels, we do purchase incremental inventory as circumstances warrant to protect the supply chain. 

Environmental Our R&D, manufacturing and distribution operations involve the use of hazardous substances and are regulated under international, federal, state and local laws governing health and safety and the environment. We apply strict standards for protection of the environment and occupational health and safety to sites inside and outside the U.S., even if not subject to regulation imposed by foreign governments. We believe that our properties and operations at our facilities comply in all material respects with applicable environmental laws and occupational health and safety laws. However, the risk of environmental liabilities cannot be completely eliminated and there can be no assurance that the application of environmental and health and safety laws to Agilent will not require us to incur significant expenditures. We are also regulated under a number of international, federal, state, and local laws regarding recycling, product packaging and product content requirements. The environmental, product content/disposal, and recycling laws are gradually becoming more stringent and may cause us to incur significant expenditures in the future. 

Some of our operations are located on properties that are known to have subsurface contamination undergoing remediation by our former parent company, Hewlett-Packard Company ("HP"). As part of the initial separation agreement from HP in 1999, HP agreed to retain the liability for the contamination, perform the required remediation and indemnify us with respect to claims arising out of the contamination. The determination of the existence and cost of remediation of additional contamination caused by us, if any, could involve costly and time-consuming negotiations and litigation. While we expect that HP will meet its remediation and indemnification obligations in this regard, there can be no guarantee that it will do so. Under our agreement with HP, HP will have access to these properties to perform the remediation. HP has agreed to minimize interference with on-site operations at those properties during the course of the remediation, but there can be no guarantee that our operations will not be interrupted or that we will not be required to incur unreimbursed costs associated with the remediation. The remediation could also harm on-site operations and the future use and negatively affect the value and future use of the properties. Several of the sites under the initial separation agreement from HP have been sold. 

In addition, some of these properties are undergoing remediation by HP under an order of an agency of the state in which the property is located. Although HP has agreed to indemnify us with respect to such subsurface contamination, it is possible that one or more of the governmental agencies will require us to be named on any of these orders. The naming of Agilent will not affect HP's obligation to indemnify us with regard to these matters. 

We are liable and are indemnifying HP for any contamination found at all facilities transferred to us by HP excluding the properties undergoing remediation. In addition, we are obligated to indemnify HP for liability associated with past non-compliance with environmental laws regulating ongoing operations, if any, at all properties transferred to us by HP, as well as at sold or discontinued businesses that are related to our businesses. While we are not aware of any material liabilities associated with such indemnified matters, there is no guarantee that such contamination or regulatory non-compliance does not exist, and will not expose us to material liability in the future. 

18 We are being indemnified by HP with respect to all environmental liabilities for which HP accrued a reserve, and we are not aware of any material environmental liabilities assumed by us which are not subject to the indemnity. 

We maintain a comprehensive Environmental Site Liability insurance policy which may cover certain clean-up costs or legal claims related to environmental contamination. This policy covers specified active, inactive and divested locations. 

International Operations Our net revenue originating outside the U.S., as a percentage of our total net revenue, was approximately 67 percent in fiscal 2009, 68 percent in fiscal 2008 and 66 percent in fiscal 2007, the majority of which was from customers other than foreign governments. Annual revenues derived from China were approximately 13 percent in fiscal 2009, 11 percent in fiscal 2008 and 10 percent in fiscal 2007. Approximately 11 percent of our revenue in fiscal 2009 and 12 percent in fiscal 2008 and fiscal 2007 was derived from Japan. Revenues from external customers are generally attributed to countries based upon the location of the Agilent sales representative. 

Long-lived assets located outside of the U.S., as a percentage of our total long-lived assets, was approximately 51 percent in fiscal year 2009, 48 percent in fiscal year 2008 and 55 percent in fiscal year 2007. Approximately 16, 14 and 16 percent of our long-lived assets were located in Japan in fiscal years 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. 

Most of our sales in international markets are made by foreign sales subsidiaries. In countries with low sales volumes, sales are made through various representatives and distributors. However, we also sell into international markets directly from the U.S. 

Our international business is subject to risks customarily encountered in foreign operations, including interruption to transportation flows for delivery of parts to us and finished goods to our customers, changes in a specific country's or region's political or economic conditions, trade protection measures, import or export licensing requirements, consequences from changes in tax laws and regulatory requirements, difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations, differing labor regulations, differing protection of intellectual property and geopolitical turmoil, including terrorism and war. We are also exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk inherent in our sales commitments, anticipated sales and expenses, and assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the local functional currency, and may also become subject to interest rate risk inherent in any debt we incur, or investment portfolios we hold. There may be an increased risk of political unrest in regions where we have significant manufacturing operations such as Southeast Asia. However, we believe that our international diversification provides stability to our worldwide operations and reduces the impact on us of adverse economic changes in any single country. Financial information about our international operations is contained in Note 21, "Segment Information", to our consolidated financial statements. 

Acquisition and Disposal of Material Assets On July 26, 2009, Agilent, Varian, Inc. ("Varian"), and Cobalt Acquisition Corp., a direct, wholly-owned subsidiary of Agilent, entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the "Merger Agreement"). Pursuant to the terms of the Merger Agreement, Varian would become a wholly-owned subsidiary of Agilent. Varian is a leading worldwide supplier of scientific instrumentation and associated consumables for life science and applied market applications. The estimated $1.5 billion total purchase price of Varian includes $52 cash per share of Varian's common stock, the cashing out of in the money stock options (after acceleration) and assumed debt. The transaction has been approved by 19 shareholders of Varian and is expected to be completed after achieving customary closing conditions and regulatory approvals. We may finance the purchase price of Varian using a portion of the proceeds from our September 2009 offering of senior notes and other existing cash. 

Executive Officers of the Registrant The names of our current executive officers and their ages, titles and biographies appear below: Adrian T. Dillon, 55, has served as our Executive Vice President, Finance and Administration, Chief Financial Officer since March 2005. Mr. Dillon served as our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer from December 2001 to March 2005. Prior to joining Agilent, Mr. Dillon served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial and Planning Officer of Eaton Corporation from April 1997 to December 2001. Mr. Dillon held various management positions at Eaton Corporation from 1979 to 1997. Mr. Dillon is a member of the Board of Directors of Williams-Sonoma, Inc., where he is Chairman of the Audit and Finance Committee. Mr. Dillon was also a member of the Board of Directors of Verigy Ltd. from March 2006 to July 2007 and served as Chairman from June 2006 to July 2007. 

Jean M. Halloran, 57, has served as our Senior Vice President, Human Resources since August 1999. From 1997 to 1999, Ms. Halloran served as Director of Corporate Education and Development for Hewlett-Packard. Prior to assuming this position, from 1993 to 1997, Ms. Halloran acted as human resources manager for Hewlett-Packard's Measurement Systems Organization. Ms. Halloran joined Hewlett-Packard in 1980 in the Medical Products Group, where she held a variety of positions in human resources, manufacturing and strategic planning. 

Didier Hirsch, 58, has served as our Vice President, Corporate Controllership and Tax since November 2006 and as our Chief Accounting Officer since November 2007. From April 2003 to October 2006, Mr. Hirsch served as Vice President and Controller. Prior to assuming this position, Mr. Hirsch served as Vice President and Treasurer from September 1999 to April 2003. Mr. Hirsch had joined Hewlett-Packard Company in 1989 as Director of Finance and Administration of Hewlett-Packard France. In 1993, he became Director of Finance and Administration of Hewlett-Packard Asia Pacific, and in 1996 Director of Finance and Administration of Hewlett-Packard Europe, Middle East, and Africa. 

Marie Oh Huber, 48, has served as Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary since September 2009 and serves as an officer or director for a variety of Agilent subsidiaries. Ms. Huber served as our Vice President, Deputy General Counsel and Assistant Secretary from June 2007 to September 2009, as our Vice President, Assistant General Counsel and Assistant Secretary from July 2002 to June 2007 and as our Assistant General Counsel and Assistant Secretary from May 1999 to July 2002. Ms. Huber served as an attorney and counsel for Hewlett-Packard Company from 1990 to May 1999. She is also a director of American Leadership Forum Silicon Valley. 

Michael R. McMullen , 48, has served as Senior Vice President, Agilent and President, Chemical Analysis Group since September 2009. From January 2002 to September 2009, he served as our Vice President and General Manager of the Chemical Analysis Solutions Unit of the Life Sciences and Chemical Analysis Group. Prior to assuming this position, from March 1999 to December 2001, Mr. McMullen served as Country Manager for Agilent's China, Japan and Korea Life Sciences and Chemical Analysis Group. Prior to this position, Mr. McMullen served as our Controller for the Hewlett-Packard Company and Yokogawa Electric Joint Venture from July 1996 to March 1999. 

Ronald S. Nersesian, 50, has served as Senior Vice President, Agilent and President, Electronic Measurement Group since March 2009. From February 2005 to February 2009, Mr. Nersesian served as 20 our Vice President and General Manager of the Wireless Business Unit of the Electronics Measurement Group and from May 2002 to February 2005, as our Vice President and General Manager of the Design Validation Division. Prior to joining Agilent, Mr. Nersesian served in management positions with LeCroy Corporation from 1996 to 2002, including Senior Vice President and General Manager of the Digital Storage Oscilloscope Business. 

Nicolas H. Roelofs, 51, has served as Senior Vice President, Agilent and President, Life Sciences Group since September 2009. From June 2006 to September 2009 he served as our Vice President and General Manager of the Life Sciences Solutions Unit of the Life Sciences and Chemical Analysis Group. Prior to joining Agilent, Mr. Roelofs served as Group Operations Officer of the Life Sciences Group of Bio-Rad Laboratories from January 2005 to May 2006. Prior to that, Mr. Roelofs served as Chief Operating Officer of Stratagene Corporation from September 2001 to December 2004. 

William P. Sullivan, 59, has served as Agilent's President, Chief Executive Officer and a Director since March 2005. Before being named as Agilent's Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Sullivan served as Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer from March 2002 to March 2005. In that capacity, he shared the responsibilities of the president's office with Agilent's former President and Chief Executive Officer, Edward W. Barnholt. Mr. Sullivan also had overall responsibility for Agilent's Electronic Products and Solutions Group, the company's largest business group. Prior to assuming that position, Mr. Sullivan served as our Senior Vice President, Semiconductor Products Group, from August 1999 to March 2002. Before that, Mr. Sullivan held various management positions at Hewlett-Packard Company. Mr. Sullivan serves on the Board of the Children's Discovery Museum in San Jose, California, as well as on the Board of Directors of URS Corporation and Avnet, Inc. 

Investor Information We are subject to the informational requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act"). Therefore, we file periodic reports, proxy statements and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"). Such reports, proxy statements and other information may be read and copied by visiting the Public Reference Room of the SEC at 100 F Street N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. You may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, the SEC maintains an Internet site (http://www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically. 

You can access financial and other information at our Investor Relations website. The address is www.investor.agilent.com. We make available, free of charge, copies of our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after filing such material electronically or otherwise furnishing it to the SEC. 

Our Amended and Restated Corporate Governance Standards, the charters of our Audit and Finance Committee, our Compensation Committee, our Executive Committee and our Nominating/Corporate Governance Committee, as well as our Standards of Business Conduct (including code of ethics provisions that apply to our principal executive officer, principal financial officer, principal accounting officer and senior financial officers) are available on our website at www.investor.agilent.com under "Corporate Governance". These items are also available in print to any stockholder in the United States and Canada who requests them by calling (877) 942-4200. This information is also available by writing to the company at the address on the cover of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

21