http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1090872/000119312504216917/d10k.htm
http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1090872/000119312504216917/d10k.htm
9.436e+12
A
2004-10-31
10-K
A_2004-10-31_10-K.txt

Item 15. 
Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 1. 
Financial Statements 2. 
Financial Statement Schedules None. 
3. 
Exhibits See Index to Exhibits. The Exhibits listed in the accompanying Index to Exhibits are filed as part of this report. 
72 REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM To the Stockholders and Board of Directors of Agilent Technologies, Inc.: In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated balance sheet and the related consolidated statements of operations, cash flows and stockholders equity present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Agilent Technologies, Inc. and its subsidiaries at October 31, 2004 and 2003, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended October 31, 2004 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits. We conducted our audits of these statements in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion. 
As discussed in the notes to the consolidated financial statements, the Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ( SFAS ) No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets as of November 1, 2002. 
P RICEWATERHOUSE C OOPERS LLP San Jose, California December 17, 2004 73 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 
74 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 
75 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 
76 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF STOCKHOLDERS EQUITY The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 
77 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1. Overview Agilent Technologies, Inc. ( we, Agilent or the company ), incorporated in Delaware in May 1999, is a global diversified technology organization that provides enabling solutions to technology markets within the communications, electronics, life sciences and chemical analysis industries. Prior to our initial public offering of 16 percent of our stock in November 1999, we were a wholly-owned subsidiary of Hewlett-Packard Company ( Hewlett-Packard ). Hewlett-Packard distributed the remaining 84 percent of our stock to its stockholders on June 2, 2000 in the form of a stock dividend. 
Our fiscal year end is October 31. Unless otherwise stated, all years and dates refer to our fiscal year. 
2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Basis of presentation. 
The accompanying financial data has been prepared by us pursuant to the rules and regulations of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ). Amounts in the consolidated financial statements as of and for the years ended October 31, 2003 and October 31, 2002 were reclassified to conform to the presentation in 2004. 
Principles of consolidation. 
The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the company and our wholly- and majority-owned subsidiaries. All significant intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated. Partially owned, non-controlled equity affiliates are accounted for under the equity method. 
Use of estimates. 
The preparation of financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Management bases its estimates on historical experience and various other assumptions believed to be reasonable. Although these estimates are based on management s best knowledge of current events and actions that may impact the company in the future, actual results may be different from the estimates. Our critical accounting policies are those that affect our financial statements materially and involve difficult, subjective or complex judgments by management. Those policies are revenue recognition, restructuring and asset impairment charges, inventory valuation, retirement and post-retirement plan assumptions, valuation of long-lived assets and accounting for income taxes. 
Revenue recognition. 
We enter into agreements to sell products (hardware and/or software), services and other arrangements (multiple element arrangements) that include combinations of products and services. 
We recognize revenue, net of trade discounts and allowances, provided that (1) persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, (2) delivery has occurred, (3) the price is fixed or determinable and (4) collectibility is reasonably assured. Delivery is considered to have occurred when title and risk of loss have transferred to the customer, for products, or when the service has been provided. We consider the price to be fixed or determinable when the price is not subject to refund or adjustments. We consider arrangements with extended payment terms not to be fixed or determinable and accordingly we defer revenue until amounts become due. At the time of the transaction, we evaluate the creditworthiness of our customers to determine the appropriate timing of revenue recognition. 
Product revenue . 
Our product revenue is generated predominantly from the sales of various types of test equipment and semiconductor components. Software is embedded in many of our test 78 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) equipment products, but the software component is generally considered to be incidental. Product revenue, including sales to resellers and distributors, is reduced for estimated returns and distributor price protection, when appropriate. For sales or arrangements that include customer-specified acceptance criteria, including those where acceptance is required upon achievement of performance milestones, revenue is recognized after the acceptance criteria have been met. For products that include installation, if the installation meets the criteria to be considered a separate element, product revenue is recognized upon delivery, and recognition of installation revenue is delayed until the installation is complete. Otherwise, neither the product nor the installation revenue is recognized until the installation is complete. 
Where software is licensed separately, revenue is recognized when the software is delivered and title and risk of loss have been transferred to the customer or, in the case of electronic delivery of software, when the customer is given access to the licensed software programs. We also evaluate whether collection of the receivable is probable, the fee is fixed or determinable and whether any other undelivered elements of the arrangement exist, on which a portion of the total fee would be allocated based on vendor-specific objective evidence. Revenue from software licensing was not material for all periods presented. 
Service revenue . Revenue from services includes extended warranty, customer support, consulting, training and education. Service revenue is deferred and recognized over the contractual period or as services are rendered and accepted by the customer. For example, customer support contracts are recognized ratably over the contractual period, while training revenue is recognized as the training is provided to the customer. In addition the four revenue recognition criteria described above must be met before service revenue is recognized. 
Multiple element arrangements . We use objective evidence of fair value to allocate revenue to elements in multiple element arrangements and recognize revenue when the criteria for revenue recognition have been met for each element. If the criteria are not met, then revenue is deferred until such criteria are met or until the period(s) over which the last undelivered element is delivered. In the absence of objective evidence of fair value of a delivered element, we allocate revenue to the fair value of the undelivered elements and the residual revenue to the delivered elements. The price charged when an element is sold separately generally determines fair value. 
Deferred revenue. 
Deferred revenue is primarily comprised of advanced billing and customer deposits for service, support and maintenance agreements. 
Accounts receivable and allowance for doubtful accounts. 
Trade accounts receivable are recorded at the invoiced amount and do not bear interest. Such accounts receivable has been reduced by an allowance for doubtful accounts, which is our best estimate of the amount of probable credit losses in our existing accounts receivable. We determine the allowance based on our historical write-off experience and the aging of such receivables, among other factors. The allowance has not been material for any periods presented. We do not have any off-balance-sheet credit exposure related to our customers. 
Warranty. 
Our warranty terms typically extend 90 days after delivery for on-site repairs and one to three years for products returned to Agilent for repair. Our warranty is accounted for in accordance with Statement of Financial Standards No. 5, Accounting for Contingencies ( SFAS No. 5 ), such that an accrual is made when it is estimable and probable based on historical experience. We accrue for warranty costs based on historical trends in warranty charges as a percentage of gross product shipments. A provision for estimated future warranty costs is recorded 79 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) as cost of products when revenue is recognized and the resulting accrual is reviewed regularly and periodically adjusted to reflect changes in warranty cost estimates. See Note 12, Guarantees . 
Stock-based compensation. 
We account for stock-based awards to employees and directors using the intrinsic value method of accounting in accordance with Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25 Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees ( APB 25 ). Under the intrinsic value method, we record compensation expense related to stock options in our consolidated statement of operations when the exercise price of our employee stock-based award is less than the market price of the underlying stock on the date of the grant. See Note 5, Stock-Based Compensation for the impact on net income (loss) and net income (loss) per share if we had applied the fair value recognition provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ( SFAS ) No. 123, Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation, ( SFAS No. 123 ) to stock-based incentives. 
Pro forma information . Pro forma net income (loss) and net income (loss) per share information, as required by SFAS No. 123 have been determined as if we had accounted for all employee stock options granted, including shares issuable to employees under the Agilent Technologies, Inc. Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the 423(b) Plan ), the Agilent Technologies, Inc. Long-Term Performance Program (the LTPP ) and the Option Exchange Program described below, under SFAS No. 123 s fair value method. The pro forma effect of recognizing compensation expense in accordance with SFAS No. 123 is as follows: 80 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) The fair value of options granted was estimated at grant date using a Black-Scholes option-pricing model with the following weighted-average assumptions: For purposes of pro forma disclosures, the estimated fair value of the options is amortized to expense over the vesting period of the options and amortized over six months to two years for the 423(b) Plan. 
Shipping and handling costs. 
Our shipping and handling costs charged to customers are included in net revenue and the associated expense is recorded in total costs for all periods presented. 
Goodwill and purchased intangible assets. 
On November 1, 2002, we adopted SFAS No. 142 Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets ( SFAS No. 142 ), which requires that goodwill no longer be amortized but reviewed annually (or more frequently if impairment indicators arise) for impairment. Subsequently, we were required to evaluate our existing goodwill and intangible assets and make any necessary reclassification in order to comply with the new criteria in SFAS No. 142. 
As part of our initial assessment of goodwill impairment, we used the fair value measurement requirement, rather than the previously required undiscounted cash flows approach. As a result of that assessment, we recorded a transitional impairment loss from the implementation of SFAS No. 142 as a change in accounting principle in the first quarter of 2003. The fair value of the reporting units was determined primarily by the income approach, which estimates the fair value based on the future discounted cash flows. The first step evaluation of reporting units on a fair value basis, as required by SFAS No. 142, indicated that an impairment existed in the communications solutions reporting unit within our test and measurement business. The revenue forecasts of the communications solutions reporting unit have been impacted by the prolonged economic downturn in the communications test markets. As such, we were required to perform the second step analysis to determine the amount of the impairment loss for the reporting unit that failed the first step test. The second step analysis consisted of comparing the implied fair value of the reporting unit s goodwill with the carrying amount of the reporting unit s goodwill, with an impairment charge resulting from any excess of the carrying value of the reporting unit s goodwill over the implied fair value of the reporting unit s goodwill. Based upon this evaluation, we recorded an impairment charge of $268 million, representing 100 percent of the reporting unit s goodwill and approximately 44 percent of total consolidated goodwill recorded as of November 1, 2002. We also reclassified approximately $6 million of intangible assets associated with workforce-in-place to goodwill on November 1, 2002. The adoption of SFAS No. 142 had a material impact on our results of operations because goodwill is no longer being amortized. Amortization of goodwill was $326 million for the year ended October 31, 2002. 
81 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Net loss and basic and diluted net loss per share for the year ended October 31, 2002 is disclosed below, adjusted to remove goodwill amortization, certain intangibles amortization and its related tax impact, as if SFAS No. 142 had applied to the period. 
Purchased intangible assets are carried at cost less accumulated amortization. Amortization is computed using the straight-line method over the economic lives of the respective assets, generally three to five years. 
Advertising. 
Advertising costs are expensed as incurred and amounted to $48 million in 2004, $44 million in 2003 and $81 million in 2002. 
Research and Development. 
Costs related to research, design and development of our products are charged to research and development expense as they are incurred. 
Taxes on income. 
Income tax expense or benefit is based on income or loss before taxes. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized principally for the expected tax consequences of temporary differences between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their reported amounts. Tax expense is also affected by any valuation allowance against deferred tax assets and changes in other comprehensive income ( OCI ). 
Net income (loss) per share. 
Basic net income (loss) per share is computed by dividing net income (loss) the numerator by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding the denominator during the period excluding the dilutive effect of stock options, other employee stock plans and our senior convertible debentures. Diluted net income (loss) per share gives effect to all potentially dilutive common stock equivalents outstanding during the period. In computing diluted net income (loss) per share, the average stock price for the period is used in determining the 82 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) number of shares assumed to be purchased from the proceeds of stock option exercises. Diluted net income per share for 2004 excluded the potentially dilutive effect of 41 million common stock equivalents as their effect was antidilutive. Diluted net loss per share for 2003 and 2002 excluded the potentially dilutive effect of all common stock equivalents as the effect was antidilutive. 
Cash and cash equivalents. 
We classify investments as cash equivalents if their original maturity is three months or less at the date of purchase. Cash equivalents are stated at cost, which approximates fair value. 
Approximately 30 percent of our cash and cash equivalents is held in the U.S. and 50 percent is held in a centrally managed global cash pool outside the U.S. The remainder is diversified among various major financial institutions throughout the world. Approximately 10 percent of our overall cash and cash equivalents is maintained in demand deposit accounts with global financial institutions of high credit quality, and is available to be used in paying and receiving activities. The remainder is invested in institutional money market funds, short-term bank time deposits and similar short-duration instruments with fixed maturities from overnight to 90 days. Agilent monitors the credit-worthiness of these financial institutions and institutional money market funds on a continuous basis. We have not experienced any credit losses from cash investments placed with these institutions. 
Fair value of financial instruments. 
The carrying values of certain of our financial instruments, including cash and cash equivalents, accrued compensation and other accrued liabilities approximate fair value because of their short maturities. The fair values of investments are determined using quoted market prices for those securities or similar financial instruments. 
Concentration of credit risk. 
We sell the majority of our products through our direct sales force. No single customer accounted for 10 percent or more of the combined accounts receivable balance at October 31, 2004 and 2003. Credit risk with respect to accounts receivable is generally diversified due to the large number of entities comprising our customer base and their dispersion across many different industries and geographies. We perform ongoing credit evaluations of our customers financial conditions, and require collateral, such as letters of credit and bank guarantees, in certain circumstances. 
Derivative instruments. 
For derivative instruments that are designated and qualify as a fair value hedge, changes in value of the derivative are recognized in income in the current period, along with the offsetting gain or loss on the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk. For derivative instruments that are designated and qualify as a cash flow hedge, changes in the value of the effective portion of the derivative instrument are recognized in other comprehensive loss, a component of stockholders equity. These amounts are reclassified and recognized in income when either the forecasted transaction occurs or it becomes probable the forecasted transaction will not occur. Changes in the fair value of the ineffective portion of derivative instruments are recognized in income in the current period. Ineffectiveness in 2004, 2003 and 2002 was not significant. 
We enter into foreign exchange contracts, primarily forward contracts and purchased options, to hedge exposures to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. These contracts are designated at inception as hedges of the related foreign currency exposures, which include committed and anticipated intercompany transactions and assets and liabilities that are denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the subsidiary, which has the exposure. To achieve hedge accounting, contracts must reduce the foreign currency exchange rate risk otherwise inherent in the amount and duration of the hedged exposures and comply with established risk management 83 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) policies; hedging contracts generally mature within twelve months. We do not use derivative financial instruments for speculative or trading purposes. 
When hedging anticipated cash flow exposure, foreign exchange contract expirations are set so as to occur in the same period that the goods are expected to be sold to third parties, allowing realized gains and losses on the contracts to be recognized into total costs. When hedging balance sheet exposure, gains and losses on foreign exchange contracts are recognized in other income (expense), net in the same period as the occurrence of gains and losses on remeasurement of the non-functional currency denominated assets and liabilities. The gains and losses, which have not been material, are included in cash flows from operating activities in the consolidated statement of cash flows. 
We may also, from time to time, acquire warrants to purchase securities of other companies as part of strategic relationships. 
Inventory. 
Inventory is valued at standard cost, which approximates actual cost computed on a first-in, first-out basis, not in excess of market value. We assess the valuation of our inventory on a quarterly basis and periodically write down the value for estimated excess and obsolete inventory based on estimates about future demand and actual usage. 
Property, plant and equipment. 
Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation. Additions, improvements and major renewals are capitalized; maintenance, repairs and minor renewals are expensed as incurred. When assets are retired or disposed of, the assets and related accumulated depreciation and amortization are removed from our general ledger and the resulting gain or loss is reflected in the consolidated statement of operations. Buildings and improvements are depreciated over fifteen to forty years and machinery and equipment over three to ten years. The straight-line method of depreciation is used for all property, plant and equipment. 
Capitalized software. 
We capitalize certain internal and external costs incurred to acquire or create internal use software in accordance with AICPA Statement of Position 98-1, Accounting for the Costs of Computer Software Developed or Obtained for Internal Use. Capitalized software is included in property, plant and equipment and is depreciated over three to five years when development is complete. 
Impairment of long-lived assets. 
We continually monitor events and changes in circumstances that could indicate carrying amounts of long-lived assets, including intangible assets, may not be recoverable. When such events or changes in circumstances occur, we assess the recoverability of long-lived assets by determining whether the carrying value of such assets will be recovered through undiscounted expected future cash flows. If the total of the undiscounted future cash flows is less than the carrying amount of those assets, we recognize an impairment loss based on the excess of the carrying amount over the fair value of the assets. 
Foreign currency translation. 
The functional currency for many of our subsidiaries outside the U.S is local currency based on the criteria of SFAS No. 52 Foreign Currency Translation . For those subsidiaries that operate in a local currency functional environment, all assets and liabilities are translated into U.S. dollars using current exchange rates; revenue and expenses are translated using average exchange rates in effect during each period. Resulting translation adjustments are reported as a separate component of accumulated comprehensive income (loss) in stockholders equity. 
84 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) For those subsidiaries that operate in a U.S. dollar functional environment, foreign currency assets and liabilities are remeasured into U.S. dollars at current exchange rates except for inventory, property, plant and equipment, other assets and deferred revenue, which are remeasured at historical exchange rates. Revenue and expenses are generally translated at average exchange rates in effect during each period, except for those expenses related to balance sheet amounts that are remeasured at historical exchange rates. Gains or losses from foreign currency remeasurement are included in consolidated net income (loss). 
3. New Accounting Pronouncements Adoption of New Pronouncements. 
In January 2003 the Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) issued Interpretation No. 46, Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities ( FIN 46 ) which was amended by FIN 46R issued in December 2003. FIN 46 addresses consolidation by business enterprises of variable interest entities ( VIE s ) that either: (1) do not have sufficient equity investment at risk to permit the entity to finance its activities without additional subordinated financial support, or (2) for which the equity investors lack an essential characteristic of a controlling financial interest. FIN 46 requires consolidation of VIE s for which Agilent is the primary beneficiary and disclosure of a significant interest in a VIE for which Agilent is not the primary beneficiary. As a result of our review, no entities were identified requiring disclosure or consolidation under FIN 46. 
In December 2003, the Securities and Exchange Commission issued Staff Accounting Bulletin ( SAB ) No. 104, Revenue Recognition ( SAB No. 104 ). SAB No. 104 rescinds certain sections of SAB No. 101, Revenue Recognition in Financial Statements ( SAB No. 101 ), related to multiple element revenue arrangements, superceded as a result of the issuance of EITF 00-21, Accounting for Revenue Arrangements with Multiple Deliverables ( EITF 00-21 ). The revenue recognition principles of SAB No. 101 remain largely unchanged by the issuance of SAB No. 104. The adoption of this standard did not affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 
In December 2003, the FASB issued a revision SFAS No. 132 (the revision ), Employers Disclosures about Pensions and Other Postretirement Benefits . The revision requires additional disclosures relating to the description of the types of plan assets, investment strategy, measurement date(s), plan obligations, cash flows, and components of net periodic benefit cost of defined benefit pension plans and other defined benefit postretirement plans recognized during interim periods. We adopted the disclosure requirements beginning with the first quarter of 2004 and the standard is effective for all future quarterly and annual reports; see Note 14 for such disclosures. 
In March 2004, the FASB issued EITF No. 03-01, The Meaning of Other-Than-Temporary Impairment and its Application to Certain Investments, which provides new guidance for assessing impairment losses on debt and equity investments. The new impairment model applies to investments accounted for under the cost or equity method and investments accounted for under FAS 115, Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities. EITF No. 03-01 also includes new disclosure requirements for cost method investments and for all investments that are in an unrealized loss position. In September 2004, the FASB delayed the accounting provisions of EITF No. 03-01; however the disclosure requirements remain effective and the applicable ones have been adopted for our year-end 2004. We will evaluate the effect, if any, of EITF 03-01 when final guidance is issued. 
85 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) In March 2004, the EITF reached a consensus on EITF Issue No. 03-16, Accounting for Investments in Limited Liability Companies ( EITF 03-16 ). The EITF concluded that if investors in a limited liability company have specific ownership accounts, they should follow the guidance prescribed in Statement of Position 78-9, Accounting for Investments in Real Estate Ventures, and EITF Topic No. D-46, Accounting for Limited Partnership Investments. Otherwise, investors should follow the significant influence model prescribed in Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 18, The Equity Method of Accounting for Investments in Common Stock. The adoption of this Issue did not have a material impact on the company s financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 
In December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 123 (Revised 2004) Share-Based Payment ( SFAS No. 123R ). SFAS No. 123R addresses all forms of share-based payment ( SBP ) awards, including shares issued under employee stock purchase plans, stock options, restricted stock and stock appreciation rights. SFAS No. 123R will require Agilent to expense SBP awards with compensation cost for SBP transactions measured at fair value. The FASB originally stated a preference for a lattice model because it believed that a lattice model more fully captures the unique characteristics of employee stock options in the estimate of fair value, as compared to the Black-Scholes model which Agilent currently uses for its footnote disclosure. The FASB decided to remove its explicit preference for a lattice model and not require a single valuation methodology. SFAS No. 123R requires Agilent to adopt the new accounting provisions beginning in our fourth quarter of 2005. Agilent has not yet determined the impact of applying the various provisions of SFAS No. 123R. 
In May 2004, the FASB issued a FASB Staff Position ( FSP ) regarding SFAS No. 106, Employers Accounting for Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions . FSP No. 106-2, Accounting and Disclosure Requirements Related to the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 discusses the effect of the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act (the Act ) enacted in December 2003 and supersedes FSP No. 106-1, which was issued in January 2004. FSP No. 106-2 considers the effect of the two new features introduced in the Act in determining our accumulated postretirement benefit obligation ( APBO ) and net periodic postretirement benefit cost. The effect on the APBO will be accounted for as an actuarial experience gain to be amortized into income over the average remaining service period of plan participants. Companies may elect to defer accounting for this benefit or may attempt to reflect the best estimate of the impact of the Act on their net periodic costs currently. The adoption of FSP No. 106-2 in the fourth quarter of 2004 did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 
In November 2004, the FASB issued FASB Statement No. 151, Inventory Costs an amendment of ARB No. 43 ( FAS 151 ), which is the result of its efforts to converge U.S. accounting standards for inventories with International Accounting Standards. FAS No. 151 requires idle facility expenses, freight, handling costs, and wasted material (spoilage) costs to be recognized as current-period charges. It also requires that allocation of fixed production overheads to the costs of conversion be based on the normal capacity of the production facilities. FAS No. 151 will be effective for inventory costs incurred during fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2005. We are evaluating the impact of this standard on our consolidated financial statements. 
86 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) In December 2004, the FASB issued an FSP regarding Accounting and Disclosure Guidance for the Foreign Earnings Repatriation Provision within the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 ( AJCA ), FSP 109-b. FSP 109-b allows Agilent time beyond the fourth quarter of 2004, the period of enactment, to evaluate the effect of the AJCA on our plan for reinvestment or repatriation of foreign earnings for purposes of applying SFAS No. 109 Accounting of Income Taxes. See the discussion of the potential impact on Agilent in Note 4 below. 
4. Tax Valuation Allowance and Provision (Benefit) for Taxes The provision (benefit) for income taxes is comprised of: The significant components of deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities included on the consolidated balance sheet are: 87 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) During the third quarter of 2003, we recorded a non-cash charge to establish a valuation allowance of $1.4 billion, which included approximately $0.4 billion of tax benefits recorded during the first six months of 2003 resulting in an approximately $1.0 billion net tax provision recorded within provision for taxes for 2003. The valuation allowance was determined in accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 109 Accounting for Income Taxes ( SFAS No. 109 ), which requires an assessment of both positive and negative evidence when determining whether it is more likely than not that deferred tax assets are recoverable. Such assessment is required on a jurisdiction-by-jurisdiction basis. Cumulative losses incurred in the U.S. and the U.K. jurisdictions in recent years represented sufficient negative evidence under SFAS No. 109 to require a full valuation allowance in these jurisdictions. Accordingly, a full valuation allowance was recorded. We intend to maintain a full valuation allowance until sufficient positive evidence exists to support reversal of the valuation allowance. 
At October 31, 2004, we had federal net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $2,037 million and tax credit carryforwards of approximately $316 million. An immaterial amount of net operating losses will expire in 2005 with the remainder expiring in tax years through 2024, if not utilized. The tax credit carryforwards will expire beginning in 2007 through 2024, if not utilized. In addition, the company has California net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $395 million. An immaterial amount of California net operating losses will expire in 2005 with the remainder expiring in tax years through 2013, if not utilized. Included in the total net operating loss carryforwards are net operating losses of $50 million related to employee stock option exercises, the benefits of which will increase additional paid in capital when realized. 
The differences between the U.S. federal statutory income tax rate and our effective tax rate are: The domestic and foreign components of income (loss) earnings from continuing operations before taxes are: 88 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) We consider the operating income of non-United States subsidiaries to be indefinitely invested outside the United States. No provision has been made for United States federal and state, or foreign taxes that may result from future remittances of undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries, the cumulative amount of which is approximately $1,179 million as of October 31, 2004. If management decides to remit this income to the U.S. in a future period, our provision for income taxes may increase materially in that period. 
On October 22, 2004, the AJCA was signed into law. The AJCA includes a deduction for 85 percent of certain foreign earnings that are repatriated, as defined in the AJCA, at an effective tax cost of 5.25 percent on any such repatriated foreign earnings. Agilent may elect to apply this provision to qualifying earnings repatriations in fiscal 2005. Agilent has begun an evaluation of the effects of the repatriation provision; however, we do not expect to be able to complete this evaluation until after Congress or the Treasury Department provide additional clarifying language on key elements of the provision. We expect to complete our evaluation of the effects of the repatriation provision within a reasonable period of time following the publication of the additional clarifying language. The range of possible amounts that Agilent is considering for repatriation under this provision is between zero and $970 million. The related potential range of income tax is between zero and $51 million. 
We are subject to ongoing tax examinations of our tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities in various jurisdictions. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. 
5. Stock-Based Compensation We follow the accounting provisions of Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees ( APB No. 25 ) for stock-based compensation granted to employees. Accordingly, compensation expense is recognized in our consolidated statement of operations only when options are granted at an exercise price that is less than the market price of the underlying stock on the date of the grant. Any compensation expense is recognized ratably over the associated service period, which is generally the option vesting term. 
Employee stock purchase plans. 
In February 2000, we implemented the Agilent Technologies, Inc. Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the Legacy Plan ) that allowed eligible employees to contribute up to ten percent of their base compensation to the purchase of our common stock. Under the provisions of the Legacy Plan, employee contributions were partially matched with shares contributed by us. These matching shares also generally vested over two years. Compensation expense for the matching provision for the Legacy Plan was measured using the fair value of shares on the date of purchase by Agilent for the Legacy Plan and was recognized over the two-year vesting period. 
Effective October 31, 2000, purchases and contributions under the Legacy Plan ceased. All unvested matching shares under the Legacy Plan maintained their original vesting terms based on the employee s continued employment. Vesting of these matching shares was completed by October 31, 2002. Compensation expense under the Legacy Plan was nil in 2004 and 2003 and $16 million in 2002. At October 31, 2004, 9,802,100 shares of our common stock had been authorized for issuance under the Legacy Plan and 3,426,716 of these shares had been issued. The remainder of the authorized shares are not expected to be issued, as the Legacy Plan is no longer functioning. 
89 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Effective November 1, 2000, we adopted a new plan, the 423(b) Plan. Under the provisions of the 423(b) Plan, eligible employees may contribute up to ten percent of their base compensation to purchase shares of our common stock at 85 percent of the lower of the fair market value at the entry date or the purchase date as defined by the 423(b) Plan. As of October 31, 2004, 39,868,411 shares of our common stock were authorized for issuance under the 423(b) Plan and 20,595,128 of these shares have been issued. 
Incentive compensation plans. 
On September 17, 1999, we adopted the Agilent Technologies, Inc. 1999 Stock Plan (the Stock Plan ) and subsequently reserved 67,800,000 shares of our common stock for issuance under the Stock Plan. In addition, on May 31, 2000, 19,000,000 shares of our common stock were registered pursuant to converted stock options previously granted by Hewlett-Packard Company. In February 2001, our stockholders approved an additional 45,000,000 shares of our common stock for issuance under the Stock Plan. These shares were subsequently registered in May 2002. Stock options, stock appreciation rights, stock awards and cash awards may be granted under the Stock Plan. Options granted under the Stock Plan may be either incentive stock options, as defined in section 422 of the Internal Revenue Code, or non-statutory. Options generally vest at a rate of 25 percent per year over a period of four years from the date of grant and have a maximum term of ten years. The exercise price for incentive stock options is generally not less than 100 percent of the fair market value of our common stock on the date the stock award is granted. 
On March 4, 2003, our stockholders approved an amendment to the Stock Plan. The amendment permits the company to offer a one-time exchange of options issued under the Stock Plan having an exercise price greater than $25 for a lesser number of options to be granted at least six months and one day from the cancellation of surrendered options (the Option Exchange Program ). On May 20, 2003, we implemented the Option Exchange Program by filing a Tender Offer Statement with the SEC, which allowed eligible employees a one-time opportunity to exchange options to purchase shares of the company s common stock, whether vested or unvested, which were granted under our Stock Plan, with exercise prices greater than $25 per share. The Option Exchange Program was offered from May 20, 2003 to June 18, 2003 and options to purchase approximately 26 million shares were exchanged, with an average exercise price of $51. As a result, the company issued options to purchase approximately 13.8 million shares at a weighted-average exercise price of $28 per share during the first quarter of 2004. Under the provisions of APB 25 no compensation expense has been, or will be, recognized in our consolidated statement of operations for the issuance of the replacement options. 
Effective November 1, 2003, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors approved the LTPP for the company s executive officers. Participants in this program are entitled to receive unrestricted shares of the company s stock after the end of a three-year period, if specified performance targets are met. On November 18, 2003 the Compensation Committee approved approximately 322,000 shares to be issued to the company s executive officers. We include the dilutive impact of this program in our diluted net income per share calculation. The amount of compensation expense, using the variable accounting method pursuant to APB No. 25, was not material for the year ended October 31, 2004. The stock will be awarded in fiscal 2007, and the final award may vary as it is based on certain performance metrics. On November 16, 2004, the Compensation Committee approved approximately 419,000 shares to be issued for the company s executive officers in connection with the LTPP. The shares will be awarded in fiscal year 2008, and the final award may vary as it is based on certain performance metrics. 
At October 31, 2004, shares registered and available for option and restricted stock grants were 61,945,186. Compensation expense for discounted options, stock appreciation rights and restricted 90 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) stock is recognized based on the intrinsic value method defined by APB Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees ( APB No. 25 ). Any compensation expense is recognized ratably over the associated service period, which is generally the vesting period. The compensation expense related to discounted options, stock appreciation rights and restricted stock was $4 million in 2004, $6 million in 2003 and $7 million in 2002. 
The following table summarizes option activity for the years ended October 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002: The following table summarizes options exercisable and the fair value of options granted: 91 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) The following table summarizes information about all options outstanding at October 31, 2004: 6. Net Income (Loss) Per Share The following is a reconciliation of the numerators and denominators of the basic and diluted net income (loss) per share computations for the periods presented below. 
Options to purchase 41 million shares of common stock at a weighted average exercise price of $35 per share were outstanding in 2004, but were not included in the computation of diluted net income per share because the options were antidilutive for 2004. Options to purchase 51 million shares of common stock at a weighted average exercise price of $29 per share were outstanding in 2003, but were not included in the computation of diluted net loss per share because the options were antidilutive for 2003. The options, which expire no later than 2014, were still outstanding at the end of 2004. Options to purchase 74 million shares of common stock at a weighted average exercise price of $40 per share were outstanding in 2002, but were not included in the computation of diluted net loss per share because the options were antidilutive in that year. 
92 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Our senior convertible debentures were also antidilutive during 2004, 2003 and 2002. Income from continuing operations for 2004, 2003 and 2002 included approximately $35 million in interest expense associated with the senior convertible debentures. If the shares had been dilutive, then this amount would have been added back to income from operations, and approximately 36 million of shares would have been added to the weighted average number of shares for the purposes of calculating diluted income per share. See Note 16, Senior Convertible Debentures and Lines of Credit. 7. Supplemental Cash Flow Information Cash paid for income taxes was $149 million in 2004, $122 million in 2003 and $160 million in 2002. Cash paid for interest was approximately $36 million in 2004, $36 million in 2003 and $36 million in 2002. 
Non-cash transactions in 2004 related primarily to an acquisition in October 2004. We issued approximately 772 thousand shares with an approximate value of $18 million. We issued the final block of common stock under The Legacy Plan in the amount of $23 million in 2002. 
8. Inventory Inventory-related charges of $45 million, $11 million and $74 million were recorded in total cost of products in 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. We record excess and obsolete inventory charges for both inventory on our site as well as inventory at our contract manufacturers and suppliers where we have non-cancelable purchase commitments. 
9. Property, Plant and Equipment, Net 93 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) We have sold substantially all of our portfolio of operating leases to CIT. Equipment under operating leases was $7 million at October 31, 2004 and $10 million at October 31, 2003 and was included in machinery and equipment. Accumulated depreciation related to equipment under operating leases was $5 million at October 31, 2004 and $8 million at October 31, 2003. 
We sold assets related to portions of our businesses to third parties during 2004, 2003 and 2002. Gross proceeds from these dispositions were zero in 2004 and 2003 and $31 million in 2002. (Loss) gains from the dispositions, included in other income (expense), net in the consolidated statement of operations, were ($1 million) in 2004, $5 million in 2003 and $18 million in 2002. 
10. Investments Investments in cost basis and equity method investments and securities classified as trading securities or available-for-sale were as follows at October 31, 2004 and 2003 (net book value): Cost method investments consist of non-marketable equity securities and are accounted for at historical cost. For investments where we have significant influence over the investee, the equity method of accounting is used. Agilent s proportionate share of income or loss for equity method investments is recorded currently in earnings. Trading securities are reported at fair value, with gains or losses resulting from changes in fair value recognized currently in earnings. Investments designated as available-for-sale are reported at fair value, with unrealized gains and losses, net of tax, included in stockholders equity. 
All of our investments (excluding trading securities) are subject to periodic impairment review. However, the impairment analysis requires significant judgment to identify events or circumstances that would likely have significant adverse effect on the future use of the investment. 
Charges related to other than temporary impairments were $15 million for 2004, $15 million in 2003 and $9 million in 2002. These impairment charges were recorded in other income (expense), net in the consolidated statement of operations. 
Agilent s share of income (loss) from equity investments was $29 million in 2004, $5 million in 2003, and ($11 million) in 2002. Realized gains and losses on Agilent s trading securities portfolio were $5 million gain in 2004 and 2003 and $5 million loss in 2002. These amounts have been included in other income (expense), net in the consolidated statement of operations. 
94 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 11. Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets The goodwill balances as of October 31, 2004 and 2003 and the movements in the year ended October 31, 2004 for each of our reportable segments are shown in the table below: The component parts of other intangibles as of October 31, 2004 and October 31, 2003 are shown in the table below: The net book value of other intangibles includes a $5 million favorable impact related to currency during 2004. We purchased $22 million of other intangibles during 2004, which was primarily related to two acquisitions. These acquisitions also resulted in additional goodwill of $21 million. Pro-forma disclosures are not required for these acquisitions as they were immaterial. 
Amortization for intangible assets was $20 million in 2004, $45 million in 2003 and $52 million in 2002. Future amortization expense related to existing intangible assets is estimated to be $8 million for 2005, $5 million for 2006, $3 million for 2007 and $5 million thereafter. 
95 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) During 2003, we recognized an impairment charge pursuant to SFAS No. 144 of approximately $10 million for intangible assets (representing developed technology and customer relationships) in our test and measurement business as a result of a decline in the projected future cash flows. The impairment charge was recorded in cost of sales ($8 million) and selling, general, and administrative ($2 million) in the consolidated statement of operations. 
12. Guarantees Standard Warranty A summary of the standard warranty accrual activity for October 31, 2004 and 2003 is shown in the table below: Extended Warranty Revenue for our extended warranty contracts with terms beyond one year is deferred and recognized on a straight-line basis over the contract period. Related costs are expensed as incurred. Amounts recorded for extended warranty contracts are included in deferred revenue on the consolidated balance sheet. 
Lease Guarantees As of October 31, 2004, we have issued credit guarantees to CIT Group Inc. with an aggregate maximum exposure of $13 million that has been fully accrued as a component of other accrued liabilities. In addition to the credit guarantees, we gave CIT Group Inc. guarantees that could require us to repurchase individual leases if, for example, the documentation we provided to support the lease was not materially accurate. In our opinion, the fair value of these additional guarantees is not material. 
96 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) We have evaluated our relationship with the CIT Group Inc. and have determined that CIT is not a variable interest entity under FIN 46. 
Indemnifications to Hewlett-Packard Company We have given multiple indemnities to Hewlett-Packard Company in connection with our activities prior to our spin-off from Hewlett-Packard for the businesses that constituted Agilent prior to the spin-off. These indemnifications cover a variety of aspects of our business, including, but not limited to, employee, tax, intellectual property and environmental matters. The agreements containing these indemnifications have been previously disclosed as exhibits to our registration statement on Form S-1 filed on August 16, 1999. In our opinion, the fair value of these indemnifications is not material. 
Indemnifications to Koninklijke Philips Electronics, N.V. ( Philips ) In connection with the sale of our healthcare solutions business to Philips on August 1, 2001, we indemnified Philips for various matters, including product liability issues arising within two years of the sale agreement. In our opinion, the fair value of these indemnifications is not material. 
Indemnifications to Officers and Directors Our corporate by-laws require that we indemnify our officers and directors, as well as those who act as directors and officers of other entities at our request, against expenses, judgments, fines, settlements and other amounts actually and reasonably incurred in connection with any proceedings arising out of their services to Agilent. In addition, we have entered into separate indemnification agreements with each director and each board-appointed officer of Agilent, which provides for indemnification of these directors and officers under similar circumstances and under additional circumstances. The indemnification obligations are more fully described in the by-laws and the indemnification agreements. See Exhibits 3.2 and 10.6 of this document. We purchase standard insurance to cover claims or a portion of the claims made against our directors and officers. Since a maximum obligation is not explicitly stated in our by-laws or in our indemnification agreements and will depend on the facts and circumstances that arise out of any future claims, the overall maximum amount of the obligations cannot be reasonably estimated. Historically, we have not made payments related to these obligations, and the fair value for these obligations is zero on the consolidated balance sheet as of October 31, 2004. 
Other Indemnifications As is customary in our industry and as provided for in local law in the U.S. and other jurisdictions, many of our standard contracts provide remedies to our customers and others with whom we enter into contracts, such as defense, settlement, or payment of judgment for intellectual property claims related to the use of our products. From time to time, we indemnify customers, as well as our suppliers, contractors, lessors, lessees, companies that purchase our businesses or assets and others with whom we enter into contracts, against combinations of loss, expense, or liability arising from various triggering events related to the sale and the use of our products and services, the use of their goods and services, the use of facilities and state of our owned facilities, the state of the assets and businesses that we sell and other matters covered by such contracts, usually up to a specified maximum amount. In addition, from time to time we also provide protection to these parties against claims related to undiscovered liabilities, additional product liability or environmental obligations. In our experience, claims made under such indemnifications are rare and the associated estimated fair value of the liability is not material. 
97 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 13. Restructuring and Asset Impairment Summary We currently have three restructuring plans one initiated in the fourth quarter of 2001 (the 2001 Plan ), a second initiated in the fourth quarter of 2002 (the 2002 Plan ), and a third initiated in the first quarter of 2003 (the 2003 Plan ) after it became clear that the actions taken in fiscal 2001 and fiscal 2002 would not be sufficient to return the company to profitability. 
All of our plans were designed to reduce costs and expenses in order to return the company to profitability. As of the end of 2004, we have reduced our workforce by approximately 16,700 people (approximately 15,100 from involuntary terminations and approximately 1,600 from net attrition) to 28,000 employees. 
Our plans to consolidate excess facilities resulted in charges for lease termination fees and losses anticipated from sub-lease agreements. We have exited more than 115 production, support and sales facilities in the U.S., Korea, Japan, U.K. and other countries, representing more than 4.6 million square feet, or about 24 percent of our worldwide property. We will continue to make lease payments on some of this space over the next five years. We lease most of these buildings from third parties, and the closures impacted all segments. In most cases, we are exiting administrative office buildings, which house sales and administrative employees. However, a small number of production facilities were closed as a result of our plans to consolidate manufacturing into fewer sites. 
Actions for all plans have been focused on segments that were impacted most severely by the market downturn primarily our test and measurement and semiconductor products businesses but actions have also been taken to reduce the costs associated with support services such as finance, information technology, workplace services and to a lesser extent our other business segments. Cost reductions were initiated by moving manufacturing and some of our global shared services operations sites to lower cost regions, reducing the number of properties, particularly sales and administrative sites, and by reducing our workforce through involuntary terminations and selected outsourcing of manufacturing and administrative functions. Our strategy is to move towards a more variable operating cost structure. 
We have executed all key actions under our 2001 Plan, although there may be changes in estimates for the consolidation of excess facilities due to changes in market conditions from those originally expected at the time the charges were recorded. Our 2002 Plan is complete. Our 2003 Plan is substantially complete, although we anticipate some charges in the first half of 2005 as we complete the Plan. 
The 2001 Plan The 2001 plan impacted the test and measurement business and the semiconductor products business and had little direct impact on the automated test and life sciences and chemical analysis businesses except as the plan related to support services reductions across all of our businesses. 
We have executed all key actions under this plan, however we will continue to make lease payments over the next five years. 
We continue to carry out our plan to consolidate excess facilities. During 2004 we recorded an additional $7 million in net charges and adjustments due primarily to reductions in our estimate of 98 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) expected sublease income. Due to the length of some of the lease terms and the uncertainty of the real estate market, we expect to make periodic adjustments to the accrual balance to reflect changes in our estimates, and to reflect actual events as they occur. 
The cost of the 2001 Plan through October 31, 2004 was $533 million: $154 million in 2001, $357 million in 2002, $15 million in 2003 and $7 million in 2004. 
A summary of restructuring activity for the 2001 Plan through October 31, 2004 is shown in the table below: The 2002 Plan On August 19, 2002, we announced our intention to further reduce our workforce by 2,500 to achieve a quarterly operating cost structure of approximately $1.6 billion. This plan primarily affected the manufacturing and field operations serving the wireline markets that are components of our test and measurement business as well as information technology support services. 
Our workforce reductions impacted all regions, all expense categories and most of our segments, particularly our test and measurement and semiconductor products segments. We reduced the number of employees at production facilities that experienced declining demand, outsourced selective operations and also reduced the number of employees that provided information technology support services as we streamlined our operations with the implementation of our new information systems. 
Our 2002 Plan is complete. The cost of the 2002 Plan through October 31, 2004 totaled $166 million: $117 million in 2002, $49 million in 2003 and zero in 2004. 
99 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) A summary of restructuring activity for the 2002 Plan through October 31, 2004 is shown in the table below: The 2003 Plan On February 21, 2003, we announced our intention to further reduce our quarterly operational costs to a level of $1.45 billion as part of the 2003 Plan. In order to accomplish this, we announced a workforce reduction of approximately 4,000 jobs in addition to previously announced cuts. 
In order to achieve the goals of the 2003 Plan we have reduced our workforce by approximately 5,800 as of October 31, 2004, primarily in our U.S. operations. Reductions were made across all businesses with significant reductions in our test and measurement and semiconductor products businesses. We continued to reduce the number of employees at production facilities and employees that provide support services across all businesses. We have also reduced the number of research and development employees as we continue to look for opportunities to align our business with available markets. 
With respect to the 2003 plan, we have continued to consolidate excess facilities. We have exited administrative office buildings, research and development facilities, and moved manufacturing to lower cost regions. Our plan to consolidate excess facilities resulted in increased charges of $28 million in 2004 and $13 million in 2003 for lease termination fees and losses estimated from sub-lease agreements. 
During 2004, we incurred asset impairment charges of $25 million, primarily related to a manufacturing site in California. We announced our plans to exit this site, used primarily by the test and measurement business, during the second quarter of 2004. We may incur some additional asset impairment charges upon the sale of this site. In 2003 we incurred asset impairment charges of $57 million for fixed assets primarily owned by our semiconductor products segment. 
As of October 31, 2004, the cost of the 2003 Plan totaled $462 million: $308 million in 2003 and $154 million in 2004. 
100 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) A summary of restructuring activity for the 2003 Plan through October 31, 2004 is shown in the table below: Summary information for combined plans The restructuring accrual for all plans, which totaled $87 million as of October 31, 2004 and $89 million as of October 31, 2003, is recorded in other accrued liabilities on the consolidated balance sheet and represents estimated future cash outlays. Lease payments are expected over the next five years. Other payments, primarily severance, are expected within a one-year period. 
A summary of the statement of operations impact of the charges resulting from all restructuring plans is shown below. 
14. Retirement Plans and Post-retirement Benefits General. 
Substantially all of our employees are covered under various defined benefit and/or defined contribution plans. Additionally, we sponsor post-retirement health care benefits and a death benefit under the Agilent Survivor Protection Plan for our eligible U.S. employees. 
Retirement, deferred profit-sharing, and post-retirement plans. 
Worldwide costs included in net income (loss) from continuing operations were $142 million in 2004, $187 million in 2003 and $122 million in 2002. 
Agilent provides U.S. employees, who meet eligibility criteria under the retirement and deferred profit-sharing plans, defined benefits which are generally based on an employee s highest five 101 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) consecutive years average pay during the years of employment and on length of service. For eligible service through October 31, 1993, the benefit payable under the Agilent Retirement Plan is reduced by any amounts due to the eligible employee under our fixed and frozen defined contribution Deferred Profit-Sharing Plan ( DPSP ), which was closed to new participants in November 1993. 
As of October 31, 2004 and 2003, the status of the Agilent Retirement Plan and DPSP for U.S. Agilent Employees follows. 
Eligible employees outside the U.S. generally receive retirement benefits under various retirement plans based upon factors such as years of service and employee compensation levels. Eligibility is generally determined in accordance with local statutory requirements. 
401(k) defined contribution plan. 
Our U.S. eligible employees may participate in the Agilent Technologies, Inc. 401(k) Plan ( the 401(k) Plan ). Enrollment in the 401(k) Plan is automatic for employees who meet eligibility requirements unless they decline participation. Under the 401(k) Plan, we provide matching contributions to employees up to a maximum of 4 percent of an employee s annual eligible compensation. The maximum contribution to the 401(k) Plan is 50 percent of an employee s annual eligible compensation, subject to regulatory and plan limitations. The 401(k) Plan expense included in income (loss) from continuing operations was $36 million in 2004, $41 million in 2003 and $48 million in 2002. 
Post-retirement benefit plans. 
In addition to receiving pension benefits, our U.S. employees who meet retirement eligibility requirements as of their termination dates may participate in our Continued Group Medical or SeniorMed Plans (the Post-retirement Medical Plans ). Our current U.S. employees could become eligible for these benefits, and the existing benefit obligation relates primarily to those employees. Once participating in a medical plan, retirees may choose from managed-care and indemnity options, with their contributions dependent on the options chosen and length of service. Our U.S. retirees are also covered by a lump sum death benefit that is part of the Agilent Survivor Protection Plan. 
Plan amendments. 
In July 2004, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors approved design changes to Agilent s Post-retirement Medical Plans and the Survivor Protection Plan. In addition, the Compensation Committee delegated certain authority to the Benefits Committee to amend plans as necessary to effectuate these design changes. The existing post-65 retirees are expected to be covered by a new Medicare Supplement Plan in 2005. The Medicare Supplement Plan will supplement Medicare coverage by reimbursing Medicare Parts A and B deductibles at 100 percent after Medicare pays its portion of the retiree s expenses. No changes were made to the Post-retirement Medical Plans for current pre-65 retirees. The Post-retirement Medical Plans for certain future pre-65 retirees will be revised to establish retiree medical accounts for the benefit of such retirees, and will be funded with amounts as determined by Agilent, in lieu of the managed care and indemnity options currently offered under the Post-retirement Medical Plans. 
102 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Finally, the Agilent Survivor Protection Plan was revised to eliminate the $5,000 Retiree Survivor Benefit for all U.S. retirees who retire on or after January 1, 2005. None of these design changes had a material impact on the financial statements as of and for the year ended October 31, 2004. 
Components of net periodic cost. 
For the years ended October 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, our net pension and post-retirement benefit costs were comprised of: Measurement date. 
Agilent uses an October 31 measurement date for the U.S. plans and a September 30 measurement date for non-U.S. plans. 
103 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Funded status. 
As of October 31, 2004 and 2003, the funded status of the defined benefit and post-retirement benefit plans was: 104 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Investment policies and strategies. 
Plan assets consist primarily of listed stocks and bonds. In the U.S. our Agilent Retirement Plan and post-retirement benefit assets are allocated approximately 80 percent to equities and approximately 20 percent to fixed income investments. Our DPSP assets are allocated approximately 60 percent to equities and approximately 40 percent to fixed income investments. Approximately 10 percent of our U.S. equity portfolio consists of alternative investments consisting largely of private equity partnerships. We desire to obtain the optimum rate of investment return on the total investment portfolio consistent with the assumption of a reasonable level of risk. The safety and protection of principal is a primary concern and we believe that a well-diversified investment portfolio will result in the highest attainable investment return (income plus capital appreciation) with the lowest overall risk. Specific investment objectives for the plans are: maintain and enhance the purchasing power of the plans assets; achieve investment returns consistent with the level of risk being taken; and earn performance rates of return in accordance with the benchmarks adopted for each asset class. Outside the U.S., our assets are allocated between 50-75 percent to equities and 25-50 percent to fixed income investments depending on the plan. All plans assets are broadly diversified. 
As of October 31, 2004 and October 31, 2003, our defined benefit plans in aggregate had projected benefit obligations ( PBO ) that were in excess of the fair value of the plan assets. The amounts of the obligations and assets for the plans were: Contributions and estimated future benefit payments . During fiscal year 2005, we expect to contribute $40 million to the Agilent Retirement Plan, $44 million to plans outside the U.S., and zero to the Post-retirement Medical Plans. We expect to pay the following benefit payments, which include expected future service. 
No additional minimum pension liability was required for 2004 due to improved investment performance and employer contributions. For 2003, an additional minimum pension liability adjustment was required for our pension plans in Germany, Japan and the United Kingdom as the 105 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) accumulated benefit obligation of $439 million for those plans exceeded the $408 million of pension plan assets for those plans as of the measurement date. The $31 million difference was increased by $105 million for net prepaid pension costs for all of the affected plans and reduced by $4 million for intangible assets in the United Kingdom s plan and one of the Japanese plans, resulting in a gross additional minimum pension liability of $132 million. Of this amount, $92 million impacted accumulated comprehensive loss in 2003, offset by $40 million applied to deferred tax assets. For 2002, an additional minimum pension liability adjustment was required for our pension plans in Germany, Japan and the United Kingdom as the accumulated benefit obligation of $529 million for those plans exceeded the $441 million of pension plan assets for those plans as of the measurement date. The $88 million difference was increased by $142 million for net prepaid pension costs for all of the affected plans and reduced by $6 million for intangible assets in the United Kingdom s plan and one of the Japanese plans, resulting in a gross additional minimum pension liability of $224 million. Of this amount, $146 million impacted accumulated comprehensive loss in 2002, offset by $78 million applied to deferred tax assets. 
Assumptions. 
The assumptions used to determine the benefit obligations and expense for our defined benefit and post-retirement benefit plans are presented in the table below. The impacts of the assumptions listed for the years 2004, 2003 and 2002 have already been recognized in our consolidated statement of operations. The assumptions for the year 2005 were used to determine the obligations presented as of October 31, 2004 in the funded status table above, and their impacts will be recognized in our consolidated statements of operations during 2005. The expected long-term return on assets of 8.50 percent is based on the historical rate of return for our chosen asset mix of equities and fixed income investments adjusted for anticipated future movements. 
106 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Assumed health care trend rates could have a significant effect on the amounts reported for Post-retirement Medical Plans. A one percentage point change in the assumed health care cost trend rates for the year ended October 31, 2005 would have the following effects: 15. Other Accrued Liabilities and Other Long-Term Liabilities Other accrued liabilities and other long-term liabilities at October 31, 2004 and 2003 were as follows: Our accrued vacation balance totaled $201 million and $193 million at October 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively, and is recorded in employee compensation and benefits in the consolidated balance sheet. 
16. Senior Convertible Debentures and Lines of Credit Senior convertible debentures. 
On November 27, 2001, we completed a private offering of $1.15 billion aggregate principal amount of three percent senior convertible debentures (the debentures ) due 2021 and generated net proceeds of $1.12 billion after deducting fees and expenses. The debentures are convertible at any time into our common stock at an initial conversion price of $32.22 per share (approximately 36 million shares), subject to adjustment (as defined in the related Indenture dated November 27, 2001). They are redeemable for cash at the company s option 107 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) beginning at any time on or after December 6, 2004 at a price equal to 100 percent of the principal amount plus interest. Holders of the debentures have the ability to require us to repurchase the debentures, in whole or in part, on December 1 in each of 2006, 2011 and 2016. Holders also have the right to require us to repurchase all or a portion of the outstanding debentures if the company undergoes a Fundamental Change (as defined in the Indenture). The debentures bear interest at an annual rate of three percent, which is payable on June 1 and December 1 of each year beginning June 1, 2002. The interest rate will reset (as defined in the Indenture) in June 2006, June 2011 and June 2016, but in no event will it be reset below three percent or above five percent per annum. To date there have been no adjustments to the conversion price of the debentures. 
Lines of credit. 
Effective November 1, 2002, we terminated our $250 million five-year revolving credit facility that was due to expire on November 5, 2005 and did not extend the $250 million 364-day revolving credit facility that expired on November 1, 2002. There were no balances outstanding under either facility at October 31, 2004. 
17. Commitments Operating Lease Commitments: Agilent Technologies leases certain real and personal property from unrelated third parties under non-cancelable operating leases. Future minimum lease payments under leases at October 31, 2004 were $108 million for 2005, $87 million for 2006, $67 million for 2007, $55 million for 2008, $46 million for 2009 and $ 81 million thereafter. Certain leases require Agilent Technologies to pay property taxes, insurance and routine maintenance, and include escalation clauses. Rent expense was $116 million in 2004, $126 million in 2003 and $177 million in 2002. 
18. Contingencies We are involved in lawsuits, claims, investigations and proceedings, including patent, commercial and environmental matters that arise in the ordinary course of business. There are no such matters pending that we expect to be material in relation to our business, consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 
19. Segment Information Description of segments. 
We are a diversified technology company that provides enabling solutions to customers in markets within the communications, electronics, life sciences and chemical analysis industries. 
We organize our business operations into four major businesses test and measurement, automated test, semiconductor products, and life sciences and chemical analysis each of which comprises a reportable segment. The segments were determined based primarily on how the chief operating decision maker views and evaluates our operations. Other factors, including customer base, homogeneity of products, technology and delivery channels, were also considered in determining our reportable segments. 
Our four reportable segments are as follows: 108 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Segment revenue and profit. 
The accounting policies used to derive reportable segment results are generally the same as those described in Note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies. A significant portion of the segments expenses arise from shared services and infrastructure that we have historically provided to the segments in order to realize economies of scale and to efficiently use resources. These expenses, collectively called corporate charges, include costs of centralized research and development, legal, accounting, employee benefits, real estate, insurance services, information technology services, treasury and other corporate infrastructure expenses. Charges are allocated to the segments and the allocations have been determined on a basis that we considered to be a reasonable reflection of the utilization of services provided to or benefits received by the segments. 
The following tables reflect the results of our reportable segments under our management reporting system. These results are not necessarily a depiction that is in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. The performance of each segment is measured based on several metrics, including income (loss) from operations. These results are used, in part, by the chief operating decision maker in evaluating the performance of, and in allocating resources to, each of the segments. 
109 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) The profitability of each of the segments is measured after excluding amortization of goodwill, amortization and impairment of other intangibles, restructuring and asset impairment charges and other items as noted in the reconciliation below. 
The following table reconciles segment results to Agilent s total enterprise results from continuing operations before taxes: Major customers. 
No customer represented 10 percent or more of our total net revenue in 2004, 2003 or 2002. 
110 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) During 2004, we changed the basis by which segment assets are measured and reported to the chief operating decision maker to include allocated corporate assets, the largest component of which relates to deferred tax assets before the valuation adjustment. Unallocated assets primarily consist of cash and cash equivalents, accumulated amortization of goodwill and other intangibles, the valuation allowance relating to deferred tax assets and other assets. The following table reflects the updated measure of segment assets, capital expenditures and investments in equity-method investees and capital expenditures directly managed by each segment. All amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current period presentation: The following table reconciles segment assets to Agilent s total assets: Geographic Information 111 QUARTERLY SUMMARY (Unaudited) 112 NOTES: 113 SIGNATURES Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized. 
Date: December 21, 2004 114 POWER OF ATTORNEY KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that each person whose signature appears below constitutes and appoints D. Craig Nordlund and Marie Oh Huber, or either of them, his or her attorneys-in-fact, for such person in any and all capacities, to sign any amendments to this report and to file the same, with exhibits thereto, and other documents in connection therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby ratifying and confirming all that either of said attorneys-in-fact, or substitute or substitutes, may do or cause to be done by virtue hereof. Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated. 
115 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 