http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1090872/000119312503098260/d10k.htm
http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1090872/000119312503098260/0001193125-03-098260-index.html
9217000000.0
A
2003-10-31
10-K
A_2003-10-31_10-K.txt

 Item 15. 

Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports on Form 8-K 1. 

Financial Statements 2. 

Financial Statement Schedules None. 

3. 

Exhibits See Index to Exhibits. The Exhibits listed in the accompanying Index to Exhibits are filed as part of this report. 

(i) Form 8-K furnished August 18, 2003, reporting on August 18, 2003 under Item 12 Results of Operations and Financial Condition, the Company s press release announcing financial results for the three months ended July 31, 2003. 

(ii) Form 8-K filed August 19, 2003, reporting on August 18, 2003, under Item 5 Other Events and under Item 7 Financial Statements and Exhibits information regarding the results for and the financial statements of the Company for the three months ended July 31, 2003. 

(iii) Form 8-K filed August 21, 2003, reporting on August 20, 2003, under Item 5 Other Events the appointment of Young K. Sohn as senior vice president and general manager of the Company s Semiconductor Products Group. 

75 REPORT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS To the Stockholders and Board of Directors of Agilent Technologies, Inc.: In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated balance sheet and the related consolidated statements of operations, cash flows and stockholders equity present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Agilent Technologies, Inc. and its subsidiaries at October 31, 2003 and 2002, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended October 31, 2003 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company s management; our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits. We conducted our audits of these statements in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the United States of America, which require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion. 

As discussed in the notes to the consolidated financial statements, the Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ( SFAS ) No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets as of November 1, 2002, and adopted SFAS No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities and changed its method of revenue recognition as of November 1, 2000. 

/s/ P RICEWATERHOUSE C OOPERS LLP P RICEWATERHOUSE C OOPERS LLP San Jose, California December 22, 2003 76 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 

77 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 

78 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 

79 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF STOCKHOLDERS EQUITY The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 

80 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1. Overview Agilent Technologies, Inc. ( we, Agilent or the company ), incorporated in Delaware in May 1999, is a global diversified technology organization that provides enabling solutions to technology markets within the communications, electronics, life sciences and chemical analysis industries. Prior to our initial public offering of 16 percent of our stock in November 1999, we were a wholly-owned subsidiary of Hewlett-Packard Company ( Hewlett-Packard ). Hewlett-Packard distributed the remaining 84 percent of our stock to its stockholders on June 2, 2000 in the form of a stock dividend. 

On August 1, 2001 we completed the sale of our healthcare solutions business to Koninklijke Philips Electronics, N.V. The results of the healthcare solutions business are presented as discontinued operations for all periods in the consolidated financial statements included herein. See Note 6, Discontinued Operations . 

Our fiscal year end is October 31. Unless otherwise stated, all years and dates refer to our fiscal year. 

2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Basis of presentation. 

The accompanying financial data has been prepared by us pursuant to the rules and regulations of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ). Amounts in the consolidated financial statements as of and for the years ended October 31, 2002 and October 31, 2001 have been reclassified to conform to the presentation in 2003. 

Principles of consolidation. 

The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the company and our wholly- and majority-owned subsidiaries. All significant intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated. 

Use of estimates. 

The preparation of financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Management bases its estimates on historical experience and various other assumptions believed to be reasonable. Although these estimates are based on management s best knowledge of current events and actions that may impact the Company in the future, actual results may be different from the estimates. Our critical accounting policies are those that affect our financial statements materially and involve difficult, subjective or complex judgments by management. Those policies are revenue recognition, restructuring and impairment charges, inventory valuation, retirement and post retirement plan assumptions, valuation of long-lived assets and accounting for income taxes. 

Revenue recognition. 

We enter into agreements to sell products (hardware and/or software), services and other arrangements (multiple element arrangements) that include combinations of products and services. 

We recognize revenue, net of trade discounts and allowances, provided that (1) persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists (2) delivery has occurred (3) the price is fixed or determinable and (4) collectibility is reasonably assured. Delivery is considered to have occurred when title and risk of loss have transferred to the customer, for products, or when the service has been provided. We consider the price to be fixed or determinable when the price is not subject to refund or adjustments. We consider arrangements with extended payment terms not to be fixed or 81 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) determinable and accordingly we defer revenue until amounts become due. At the time of the transaction, we evaluate the creditworthiness of our customers to determine the appropriate timing of revenue recognition. 

Product revenue . 

Our product revenue is generated predominantly from the sales of various types of test equipment and semiconductor components. Software is embedded in many of our test equipment, but the software component is generally considered incidental. Product revenue, including sales to resellers and distributors, is reduced for estimated returns and distributor price protection, when appropriate. For sales or arrangements that include customer-specified acceptance criteria, including those where acceptance is required upon achievement of performance milestones, revenue is recognized after the acceptance criteria have been met. For products that include installation, if the installation meets the criteria to be considered a separate element, product revenue is recognized upon delivery, and recognition of installation revenue is delayed until the installation is complete. Otherwise, neither the product nor the installation revenue is recognized until the installation is complete. 

Where software is licensed separately, revenue is recognized when the software is delivered and title and risk of loss have been transferred to the customer or, in the case of electronic delivery of software, when the customer is given access to the licensed software programs or over a license period contractually agreed to with the customer. We also evaluate whether collection of the receivable is probable, the fee is fixed or determinable and whether any other undelivered elements of the arrangement exist, on which a portion of the total fee would be allocated based on vendor-specific objective evidence. Revenue from software licensing was not material for all periods presented. 

Service revenue . Revenue from services includes extended warranty, customer support, consulting, training and education. Service revenue is deferred and recognized over the contractual period or as services are rendered and accepted by the customer. For example, customer support contracts are recognized ratably over the contractual period, while training revenue is recognized as the training is provided to the customer. In addition the four revenue recognition criteria described above must be met before service revenue is recognized. 

Multiple element arrangements . We use objective evidence of fair value to allocate revenue to elements in multiple element arrangements and recognize revenue when the criteria for revenue recognition have been met for each element. In the absence of objective evidence of fair value of a delivered element, we allocate revenue to the fair value of the undelivered elements and the residual revenue to the delivered elements. The price charged when an element is sold separately generally determines fair value. 

Deferred revenue. 

Deferred revenue is primarily comprised of advanced billing and customer deposits for service, support and maintenance agreements. 

SAB 101 Revenue Recognition in Financial Statements . 

In December 1999, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC ) issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 101, Revenue Recognition in Financial Statements ( SAB 101 ). During the fourth quarter of 2001, the company adopted SAB 101 retroactive to the beginning of the year. The cumulative effect of the adoption resulted in a charge to 2001 net income of $47 million (net of income taxes of $27 million) or $0.10 per basic and diluted share. For the year ended October 31, 2001, the net impact on 2001 net revenues including amounts deferred at October 31, 2001 was an increase of $67 million of revenue and $29 million of cost of products which were included in the cumulative effect adjustment. 

82 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Warranty. 

Our warranty terms typically extend 90 days after delivery for on-site repairs and one to three years for products returned to Agilent for repair. Our warranty is accounted for in accordance with Statement of Financial Standards No. 5, Accounting for Contingencies ( SFAS No. 5 ), such that an accrual is made when it is estimable and probable based on historical experience. We accrue for warranty costs based on historical trends in warranty charges as a percentage of gross product shipments. A provision for estimated future warranty costs is recorded as cost of products when revenue is recognized and the resulting accrual is reviewed regularly and periodically adjusted to reflect changes in warranty cost estimates. See Note 13, Guarantees . 

Variable interest entities. 

On February 1, 2003, we adopted FASB Interpretation No. 46, Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities ( FIN 46 ), which requires that we consolidate variable interest entities in which we are the primary beneficiary. The primary beneficiary is generally defined as having the majority of the risks and rewards arising from the VIE. We have evaluated and will continue to assess our relationships with our equity investments, joint ventures and other entities that we have relationships with that may be deemed a variable interest entity. The adoption of FIN 46 did not have any material impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 

Stock-based compensation. 

We account for stock-based awards to employees and directors using the intrinsic value method of accounting in accordance with Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25 Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees ( APB 25 ). Under the intrinsic value method, we record compensation expense related to stock options in our consolidated statement of operations when the exercise price of our employee stock-based award is less than the market price of the underlying stock on the date of the grant. See Note 5, Stock-Based Compensation for the impact on net loss and net loss per share if we had applied the fair value recognition provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ( SFAS ) No. 123, Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation, ( SFAS No. 123 ) to stock-based incentives. 

Pro forma information . Pro forma net loss and net loss per share information, as required by SFAS No. 123, has been determined as if we had accounted for all employee stock options granted, including shares issuable to employees under the 423(b) Plan and the Option Exchange Program described above, under SFAS No. 123 s fair value method. The pro forma effect of recognizing compensation expense in accordance with SFAS No. 123 is as follows: 83 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) The fair value of options granted was estimated at grant date using a Black-Scholes option-pricing model with the following weighted-average assumptions: For purposes of pro forma disclosures, the estimated fair value of the options is amortized to expense over the vesting period of the options and amortized over six months to two years for the 423(b) Plan. 

Shipping and handling costs. 

Our shipping and handling costs charged to customers are included in net revenue and the associated expense is recorded in total costs for all periods presented. 

Goodwill and purchased intangible assets. 

On November 1, 2002, we adopted SFAS No. 142 Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets ( SFAS No. 142 ), which requires that goodwill no longer be amortized but reviewed annually (or more frequently if impairment indicators arise) for impairment. Subsequently, we were required to evaluate our existing goodwill and intangible assets and make any necessary reclassification in order to comply with the new criteria in SFAS No. 142. 

As part of our initial assessment of goodwill impairment, we used the fair value measurement requirement, rather than the previously required undiscounted cash flows approach. As a result of that assessment, we recorded a transitional impairment loss from the implementation of SFAS No. 142 as a change in accounting principle in the first quarter of 2003. The fair value of the reporting units was determined primarily by the income approach, which estimates the fair value based on the future discounted cash flows. The first step evaluation of reporting units on a fair value basis, as required by SFAS No. 142, indicated that an impairment existed in the communications solutions reporting unit within our test and measurement business. The revenue forecasts of the communications solutions 84 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) reporting unit have been impacted by the prolonged economic downturn in the communications test markets. As such, we were required to perform the second step analysis to determine the amount of the impairment loss for the reporting unit that failed the first step test. The second step analysis consisted of comparing the implied fair value of the reporting unit s goodwill with the carrying amount of the reporting unit s goodwill, with an impairment charge resulting from any excess of the carrying value of the reporting unit s goodwill over the implied fair value of the reporting unit s goodwill. Based upon this evaluation, we recorded an impairment charge of $268 million, representing 100 percent of the reporting unit s goodwill and approximately 44 percent of total consolidated goodwill recorded as of November 1, 2002. We also reclassified approximately $6 million of intangible assets associated with workforce-in-place to goodwill on November 1, 2002. The adoption of SFAS No. 142 had a material impact on our results of operations because goodwill is no longer being amortized. Amortization of goodwill was $326 million for the year ended October 31, 2002 and $307 million for the year ended October 31, 2001. 

Net loss and basic and diluted net loss per share for the years ended October 31, 2002 and October 31, 2001 are disclosed below, adjusted to remove goodwill amortization, certain intangibles amortization and their related tax impacts, as if SFAS No. 142 had applied to those periods. 

85 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Purchased intangible assets are carried at cost less accumulated amortization. Amortization is computed using the straight-line method over the economic lives of the respective assets, generally three to five years. 

Advertising. 

Advertising costs are expensed as incurred and amounted to $44 million in 2003, $81 million in 2002 and $115 million in 2001. 

Taxes on income. 

Income tax expense or benefit is based on income or loss before taxes. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized principally for the expected tax consequences of temporary differences between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their reported amounts. Tax expense is also affected by any valuation allowance against deferred tax assets. 

Net (loss) income per share. 

Basic net (loss) income per share is computed by dividing net (loss) income the numerator by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding the denominator during the period excluding the dilutive effect of stock options, other employee stock plans and our senior convertible debentures. Diluted net (loss) income per share gives effect to all potentially dilutive common stock equivalents outstanding during the period. In computing diluted net (loss) income per share, the average stock price for the period is used in determining the number of shares assumed to be purchased from the proceeds of stock option exercises. Diluted net (loss) income per share for 2003, 2002 and 2001 excludes the potentially dilutive effect of common stock equivalents as their effect is antidilutive. 

Cash and cash equivalents. 

We classify investments as cash equivalents if their original maturity is three months or less. Cash equivalents are stated at cost, which approximates fair value. 

Fair value of financial instruments. 

The carrying values of certain of our financial instruments, including cash and cash equivalents, accrued compensation and other accrued liabilities approximate fair value because of their short maturities. The fair values of investments are determined using quoted market prices for those securities or similar financial instruments. 

Concentration of credit risk. 

We sell the majority of our products through our direct sales force. No single customer accounted for 10 percent or more of the combined accounts receivable balance at October 31, 2003 and 2002. Credit risk with respect to accounts receivable is generally diversified due to the large number of entities comprising our customer base and their dispersion across many different industries and geographies. We perform ongoing credit evaluations of our customers financial conditions, and require collateral, such as letters of credit and bank guarantees, in certain circumstances. 

Derivative instruments. 

Effective November 1, 2000, we adopted SFAS No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, as amended by SFAS No. 138, Accounting for Certain Derivative Instruments and Certain Hedging Activities ( SFAS No. 133 ). SFAS No. 133, as amended, establishes accounting and reporting standards for derivative instruments, and requires that all derivatives be recognized as either assets or liabilities on the balance sheet and carried at fair value. 

If derivative instruments are designated and qualify as a fair value hedge, changes in value of the derivative are recognized in income in the current period, along with the offsetting gain or loss on the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk. If derivative instruments are designated and qualify as a cash flow hedge, changes in the value of the effective portion of the derivative 86 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) instrument are recognized in other comprehensive loss, a component of stockholders equity. These amounts are reclassified and recognized in income when either the forecasted transaction occurs or it becomes probable the forecasted transaction will not occur. Changes in the fair value of the ineffective portion of derivative instruments are recognized in income in the current period. Ineffectiveness in 2003, 2002 and 2001 was not significant. 

The adoption of SFAS No. 133 on November 1, 2000 resulted in a cumulative pre-tax reduction to income of $41 million ($25 million after tax) and a pre-tax increase in other comprehensive income of $10 million. 

We enter into foreign exchange contracts, primarily forward contracts and purchased options, to hedge exposures to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. These contracts are designated at inception as hedges of the related foreign currency exposures, which include committed and anticipated intercompany transactions and assets and liabilities that are denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the subsidiary which has the exposure. To achieve hedge accounting, contracts must reduce the foreign currency exchange rate risk otherwise inherent in the amount and duration of the hedged exposures and comply with established risk management policies; hedging contracts generally mature within twelve months. We do not use derivative financial instruments for speculative or trading purposes. 

When hedging anticipated cash flow exposure, foreign exchange contract expirations are set so as to occur in the same period that the goods are expected to be sold to third parties, allowing realized gains and losses on the contracts to be recognized into cost of goods sold. When hedging balance sheet exposure, gains and losses on foreign exchange contracts are recognized in other income (expense), net in the same period as the occurrence of gains and losses on remeasurement of the non-functional currency denominated assets and liabilities. The gains and losses, which have not been material, are included in cash flows from operating activities in the consolidated statement of cash flows. 

We may also, from time to time, acquire warrants to purchase securities of other companies as part of strategic relationships. 

Inventory. 

Inventory is valued at standard cost which approximates actual cost computed on a first-in, first-out basis, not in excess of market value. We assess the valuation of our inventory on a quarterly basis and periodically write down the value for estimated excess and obsolete inventory based on estimates about future demand and actual usage. 

Property, plant and equipment. 

Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation. Additions, improvements and major renewals are capitalized; maintenance, repairs and minor renewals are expensed as incurred. When assets are retired or disposed of, the assets and related accumulated depreciation and amortization are removed from our general ledger and the resulting gain or loss is reflected in the consolidated statement of operations. Buildings and improvements are depreciated over fifteen to forty years and machinery and equipment over three to ten years. The straight-line method of depreciation was adopted for all property, plant and equipment placed into service after November 1, 2001. The effect of this change on the net loss for 2003 and 2002 was insignificant. For property, plant and equipment placed into service prior to November 1, 2001, depreciation is provided using accelerated methods, principally over fifteen to forty years for buildings and improvements and three to ten years for machinery and 87 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) equipment, including equipment leased to customers under operating leases. Depreciation of leasehold improvements is provided using the straight-line method over the life of the asset or the term of the lease, whichever is shorter. 

Capitalized software. 

We capitalize certain internal and external costs incurred to acquire or create internal use software in accordance with AICPA Statement of Position 98-1, Accounting for the Costs of Computer Software Developed or Obtained for Internal Use. Capitalized software is included in property, plant and equipment and is depreciated over three to five years when development is complete. 

Impairment of long-lived assets. 

We continually monitor events and changes in circumstances that could indicate carrying amounts of long-lived assets, including intangible assets, may not be recoverable. When such events or changes in circumstances occur, we assess the recoverability of long-lived assets by determining whether the carrying value of such assets will be recovered through undiscounted expected future cash flows. If the total of the undiscounted future cash flows is less than the carrying amount of those assets, we recognize an impairment loss based on the excess of the carrying amount over the fair value of the assets. See Note 3, New Accounting Pronouncements for further discussion. 

Foreign currency translation. 

Effective November 1, 2001, we have determined that the functional currency for many of our subsidiaries outside the U.S. has changed from the U.S. dollar to local currency based on the criteria of SFAS No. 52 Foreign Currency Translation . This change did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial position as of November 1, 2001. For those subsidiaries that operate in a local currency functional environment, all assets and liabilities are translated into U.S. dollars using current exchange rates; revenue and expenses are translated using average exchange rates in effect during each period. Resulting translation adjustments are reported as a separate component of accumulated comprehensive loss in stockholders equity. 

For those subsidiaries that operate in a U.S. dollar functional environment, foreign currency assets and liabilities are remeasured into U.S. dollars at current exchange rates except for inventory, property, plant and equipment, other assets and deferred revenue, which are remeasured at historical exchange rates. Revenue and expenses are generally translated at average exchange rates in effect during each period, except for those expenses related to balance sheet amounts that are remeasured at historical exchange rates. Gains or losses from foreign currency remeasurement are included in consolidated net (loss) income. 

For our subsidiaries which are local currency functional, the effect of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations during 2003 on our consolidated cash and cash equivalents balance was not material. 

3. New Accounting Pronouncements Adoption of New Pronouncements. 

On November 1, 2002, we adopted SFAS No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets, ( SFAS No. 144 ), which amends existing accounting guidance on asset impairment and provides a single accounting model for long-lived assets to be disposed of. Among other provisions, the standard changes the criteria for classifying an asset as held-for-sale. The 88 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) standard also broadens the scope of businesses to be disposed of that qualify for reporting as discontinued operations, and changes the timing of recognizing losses on such operations. The initial impact of adopting SFAS No. 144 was not material to our consolidated financial statements. 

On January 1, 2003, we adopted SFAS No. 146, Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities, ( SFAS No. 146 ), which nullifies Emerging Issues Task Force ( EITF ) 94-3, Liability Recognition for Certain Employee Termination Benefits and Other Costs to Exit an Activity (including Certain Costs Incurred in a Restructuring) . SFAS No. 146 requires that a liability be recognized for restructuring costs only when the liability is incurred, that is, when it meets the definition of a liability in the Financial Accounting Standards Board s ( FASB s ) conceptual framework. SFAS No. 146 also establishes fair value as the objective for initial measurement of liabilities related to exit or disposal activities and is effective for exit or disposal activities that are initiated after December 31, 2002. The adoption of SFAS No. 146 did not have a material impact on our results of operations, financial position or cash flows, although it has impacted the timing of recognition of costs associated with restructuring activities in our 2003 Plan. (See Note 14, Restructuring and Asset Impairment of this report.) On January 1, 2003, we adopted FASB Interpretation No. 45, Guarantor s Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others ( FIN 45 ). FIN 45 requires that upon issuance of a guarantee, we must disclose and may be required to recognize a liability for the fair value of the obligation we assume under that guarantee. The initial recognition and measurement requirement of FIN 45 is effective for guarantees issued or modified after December 31, 2002. As of October 31, 2003, there were no material guarantees issued or modified by us after December 31, 2002. The disclosure requirements of FIN 45, applicable to our product warranty liability and certain guarantees issued before December 31, 2002, were effective for our first quarter report and all subsequent quarterly and annual reports. As of October 31, 2003 and October 31, 2002, our product warranty liability was $71 million and $72 million (see Note 13, Guarantees of this report). 

On February 1, 2003, we adopted FASB Interpretation No. 46, Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities ( FIN 46 ). FIN 46 addresses consolidation by business enterprises of variable interest entities. Under this interpretation, certain entities known as Variable Interest Entities ( VIEs ) must be consolidated by the primary beneficiary of the entity. The primary beneficiary is generally defined as having the majority of the risks and rewards arising from the VIE. For VIEs in which a significant (but not majority) variable interest is held, certain disclosures are required. We have not entered into any arrangements or made any investments which qualify as a VIE in the period from January 31, 2003 to October 31, 2003. Effective August 1, 2003, we have also applied the accounting and disclosure rules set forth in FIN 46 for VIEs acquired before January 31, 2003. The adoption of FIN 46 did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 

On February 1, 2003, we adopted SFAS No. 148, Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation Transition and Disclosure an amendment of SFAS No. 123 ( SFAS No. 148 ). This statement amends SFAS No. 123, to provide alternative methods of transition for a voluntary change to the fair value based method of accounting for stock-based employee compensation. In addition, this statement amends the disclosure requirements of SFAS No. 123 to require disclosures in both annual and interim financial statements about the method of accounting for stock-based employee compensation and the effect of the method used on reported results. The adoption of SFAS No. 148 did not have any impact 89 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) to our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows as our adoption of this standard involved disclosures only; see Note 5, Stock-Based Compensation of this report for those disclosures. 

On July 1, 2003, we adopted SFAS No. 149, Amendment of Statement 133 on Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities ( SFAS No. 149 ). SFAS No. 149 amends and clarifies accounting for derivative instruments including certain derivative instruments embedded in other contracts and hedging activities under SFAS No. 133. The adoption of SFAS No. 149 did not have any impact to our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 

On August 1, 2003, we adopted EITF Issue 00-21, Revenue Arrangements with Multiple Deliverables, ( EITF 00-21 ), which requires companies to determine whether an arrangement involving multiple deliverables contains more than one unit of accounting. We have applied the provisions of EITF 00-21 for sales arrangements entered into after August 1, 2003. In applying EITF 00-21, revenue arrangements with multiple deliverables should be divided into separate units of accounting if the deliverables in the arrangement meet certain criteria. Arrangement consideration should be allocated among the separate units of accounting based on their relative fair values. The adoption of EITF 00-21 did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 

On August 1, 2003, we adopted SFAS No. 150, Accounting for Certain Financial Instruments with Characteristics of both Liabilities and Equity ( SFAS No. 150 ). SFAS No. 150 establishes standards for the classification and measurement of financial instruments with characteristics of both liabilities and equity. The adoption of SFAS No. 150 did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 

Our provision for taxes included a non-cash charge recorded during the third quarter of 2003 to establish a valuation allowance of $1.4 billion, which included approximately $0.4 billion of tax benefits recorded during the first six months of 2003 resulting in approximately $1.0 billion net tax provision recorded within provision for taxes for 2003; the valuation allowance essentially eliminated our net deferred tax assets. During the fourth quarter of 2003, we maintained a full valuation allowance on our net deferred tax assets in the impacted jurisdictions. The valuation allowance was determined in accordance with the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 109 ( SFAS No. 109 ), Accounting for Income Taxes, which requires an assessment of both positive and negative evidence when determining whether it is more likely than not that deferred tax assets are recoverable; such assessment is required on a jurisdiction by jurisdiction basis. Cumulative losses incurred in the U.S. and the U.K. jurisdictions in recent years represented sufficient negative evidence under SFAS No. 109 and accordingly, a full valuation allowance was recorded against deferred tax assets for these jurisdictions. We intend to maintain a full valuation allowance on the U.S. and U.K. jurisdictions until sufficient positive evidence exists to support reversal of the valuation allowance. 

90 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) The provision (benefit) for income taxes is comprised of: The significant components of deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities included on the consolidated balance sheet are: At October 31, 2003, we had federal net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $2,347 million and tax credit carryforwards of approximately $273 million. The net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards will expire beginning in 2004 through 2023 if not utilized. In addition, we have 91 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) California net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $441 million, which will expire beginning in 2005 through 2013 if not utilized. Included in the total net operating loss carryforwards are net operating losses of $12 million related to employee stock option exercises, the benefits of which will increase additional paid in capital when realized. 

The differences between the U.S. federal statutory income tax rate and our effective tax rate are: The domestic and foreign components of (loss) income from continuing operations before taxes are: As a result of certain employment and capital investment actions undertaken by us, income from manufacturing and other activities in certain countries is subject to reduced tax rates, or is wholly exempt from taxes, for tax years through 2010. The income tax benefits attributable to the tax status of subsidiaries in these countries were estimated to be $36 million in 2003, $33 million in 2002 and $37 million in 2001. 

We have not provided for U.S. federal income and foreign withholding taxes on $1,072 million of non-U.S. subsidiaries undistributed income as of October 31, 2003 because we intend to reinvest such income indefinitely. Where excess cash has accumulated in our non-U.S. subsidiaries and it is advantageous for tax or foreign exchange reasons, subsidiary income is remitted. 

We are subject to ongoing tax examinations and assessments in various jurisdictions. The Internal Revenue Service is currently auditing our federal income tax returns for fiscal years 2000 to 2002. We believe the ultimate outcome of the tax audits will not have a material adverse impact on the company s financial position or results of operations. 

92 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 5. Stock-Based Compensation Employee stock purchase plans. 

Prior to February 2, 2000, virtually all of our employees were able to contribute up to ten percent of their base compensation to the quarterly purchase of Hewlett-Packard s common stock under the Hewlett-Packard Stock Purchase Plan (the Hewlett-Packard Plan ). Under the provisions of the Hewlett-Packard Plan, employee contributions to purchase shares were partially matched with shares contributed by Hewlett-Packard. These matching shares generally vested over two years. After February 2, 2000, we implemented the Agilent Technologies, Inc. Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the Legacy Plan ) that was similar to the Hewlett-Packard Plan and allowed eligible employees to contribute up to ten percent of their base compensation to the purchase of our common stock. Under the provisions of the Legacy Plan, employee contributions were partially matched with shares contributed by us. These matching shares also generally vested over two years. On June 2, 2000, all unvested matching shares of Hewlett-Packard stock held by our employees were forfeited and replaced by our common stock of equivalent value. Compensation expense for the matching provision for both the Hewlett-Packard Plan and the Legacy Plan was measured using the fair value of shares on the date of purchase by Hewlett-Packard for the Hewlett-Packard Plan and by Agilent for the Legacy Plan and was recognized over the two-year vesting period. The remainder of the authorized shares are not expected to be issued as the Legacy Plan is no longer functioning. 

Effective October 31, 2000, purchases and contributions under the Legacy Plan ceased. All unvested matching shares under the Legacy Plan maintained their original vesting terms based on the employee s continued employment. Vesting of these matching shares was completed by October 31, 2002. Compensation expense under both plans was not material in 2003, $16 million in 2002 and $28 million in 2001. At October 31, 2003, 9,802,100 shares of our common stock had been authorized for issuance under the Legacy Plan and 3,426,716 of these shares had been issued. 

Effective November 1, 2000, we adopted a new plan, the Agilent Technologies, Inc. Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the 423(b) Plan ). Under the provisions of the 423(b) Plan, eligible employees may contribute up to ten percent of their base compensation to purchase shares of our common stock at 85 percent of the lower of the fair market value at the entry date or the purchase date as defined by the 423(b) Plan. As of October 31, 2003, 38,860,247 shares of our common stock were authorized for issuance under the 423(b) Plan and 13,636,414 of these shares have been issued. 

Incentive compensation plans. 

On September 17, 1999, we adopted the Agilent Technologies, Inc. 1999 Stock Plan (the Stock Plan ) and subsequently reserved 67,800,000 shares of our common stock for issuance under the Stock Plan. In addition, on May 31, 2000, 19,000,000 shares of our common stock were registered pursuant to converted stock options previously granted by Hewlett-Packard Company. In February 2001, our stockholders approved an additional 45,000,000 shares of our common stock for issuance under the Stock Plan. These shares were subsequently registered in May 2002. Stock options, stock appreciation rights, stock awards and cash awards may be granted under the Stock Plan. Options granted under the Stock Plan may be either incentive stock options, as defined in section 422 of the Internal Revenue Code, or non-statutory. Options generally vest at a rate of 25 percent per year over a period of four years from the date of grant and have a maximum term of ten years. The exercise price for incentive stock options is generally not less than 100 percent of the fair market value of our common stock on the date the stock award is granted. 

On March 4, 2003, our shareholders approved an amendment to the Stock Plan. The amendment permits the company to offer a one-time exchange of options issued under the Stock Plan having an exercise price greater than $25.00 for a lesser number of options to be granted at least six months 93 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) and one day from the cancellation of surrendered options (the Option Exchange Program ). On May 20, 2003, we implemented the Option Exchange Program by filing a Tender Offer Statement with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, which allowed eligible employees a one-time opportunity to exchange options to purchase shares of the Company s common stock, whether vested or unvested, which were granted under our Stock Plan, with exercise prices greater than $25.00 per share. The Option Exchange Program was offered from May 20, 2003 to June 18, 2003 and options to purchase approximately 26 million shares were exchanged, with an average exercise price of $51.00. As a result, we expect to issue options representing approximately 14 million shares by the end of the first quarter of 2004. Under the provisions of APB 25 no compensation expense has been, or will be, recognized in our consolidated statement of operations for the issuance of the replacement options. 

At October 31, 2003, shares registered and available for option and restricted stock grants were 75,861,602. Compensation expense for discounted options, stock appreciation rights and restricted stock is recognized based on the intrinsic value method defined by APB Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees ( APB No. 25 ). Any compensation expense is recognized ratably over the associated service period, which is generally the vesting period. The compensation expense related to discounted options, stock appreciation rights and restricted stock was $6 million in 2003, $7 million in 2002 and $8 million in 2001. 

Effective June 2000, a majority of the Hewlett-Packard awards held by our employees were converted to Agilent awards of equivalent value. The conversion of Hewlett-Packard options into Agilent options was done in such a manner that (1) the aggregate intrinsic value of the options immediately before and after the exchange was the same, (2) the ratio of the exercise price per option to the market value per option was not reduced, and (3) the vesting provisions and options period of the replacement Agilent options were the same as the original vesting terms and option period of the Hewlett-Packard options. 

The following table summarizes option activity for the years ended October 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001: 94 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) The following table summarizes options exercisable and the fair value of options granted: The following table summarizes information about all options outstanding at October 31, 2003: 6. Discontinued Operations On August 1, 2001, we completed the sale of our healthcare solutions business to Koninklijke Philips Electronics, N.V. ( Philips ) pursuant to an Asset Purchase Agreement for a total purchase price of $1.7 billion. Philips paid initial proceeds of $1.6 billion to us on August 1, 2001, with further payments following pursuant to the terms of the Asset Purchase Agreement dated as of November 17, 2000, as amended and supplemented by the Amendment and Supplemental Agreement, dated as of August 1, 2001 (collectively, the Asset Purchase Agreement ). The total purchase price was subject to adjustment based on the determination of the final purchased net assets and on our performance of integration services for Philips. 

Our consolidated financial statements reflect our healthcare solutions business as discontinued operations in accordance with Accounting Principles Board ( APB ) Opinion No. 30 Reporting the Results of Operations Reporting the Effects of Disposal of a Segment of a Business, and Extraordinary, Unusual and Infrequently Occurring Events and Transactions ( APB No. 30 ). The financial position, results of operations and cash flows of our healthcare solutions business have been classified as discontinued, and prior periods have been restated, including the reallocation of general overhead charges to our three remaining business segments. We recorded an after-tax gain 95 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) of $646 million in 2001 and an after-tax loss of $10 million in 2002 as a result of the sale to Philips. In 2002, adjustments were made to the gain as a result of purchase price adjustments to reflect the final purchased net assets and additional costs that were not anticipated at the time of the sale. 

We signed an agreement with Philips, dated as of May 15, 2002, finalizing the purchase price adjustments from the sale. The adjustments did not result in a material adjustment to the gain on sale. Since August 1, 2001, we received all of the $100 million withheld by Philips from the total purchase price at the time of the sale plus adjustments for the final purchased net assets. For incremental fees, we provided support services to Philips after August 1, 2001 and a portion of these fees offset costs that include an element of fixed costs which are recognized in selling, general and administrative expenses in 2001 and 2002. As of October 31, 2002, we have completed our contractual obligation to provide services to Philips. 

The following table shows the components of the gain on sale of discontinued operations initially recorded and the subsequent adjustments. 

96 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) The following table shows the results of operations of our healthcare solutions business in 2001. There were no results of operations in 2003 and 2002. 

7. Acquisitions and Sale of Assets Acquisitions On January 5, 2001, we acquired Objective Systems Integrators, Inc. ( OSI ) for approximately $716 million. Of this total, $690 million was cash and the remainder represents the fair value of options granted. Using the purchase method of accounting in accordance with Accounting Principles Board ( APB ) Opinion No. 16, Business Combinations ( APB No. 16 ), the purchase price was allocated to tangible and intangible assets including goodwill. The original goodwill balance of $593 million was being amortized over three years. At the time of acquisition, OSI was a leading provider of next-generation operations-support-system software for communications service providers and has become part of our test and measurement business. The net book value of goodwill associated with this acquisition at October 31, 2002 was $234 million. In the first quarter of 2003, we implemented SFAS No. 142 and wrote-off this goodwill. See Note 12, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets . 

In addition to the OSI acquisition, we acquired several other companies during 2002 and 2001, which were not significant to our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. These acquisitions were accounted for under the purchase method of accounting as defined in APB No. 16 or SFAS No. 141 depending on the date of acquisition. The results of operations of the acquired companies were included prospectively from the date of acquisition and the acquisition cost was allocated to the acquired tangible assets and liabilities and identifiable intangible assets based on fair values at the date of acquisition. Residual amounts were recorded as goodwill. In-process research and development write-offs have been insignificant. 

Unaudited pro forma statement of operations information has not been presented because the effects of these acquisitions were not material on either an individual or an aggregated basis. 

97 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Asset Sales Sale of Leasing Portfolio In the fourth quarter of 2000, we entered into an asset purchase agreement with CIT Group Inc. ( CIT, formerly Tyco Capital Corporation) pursuant to which we sold them substantially all of our leasing portfolio (the CIT Group Sale ) over the course of 2000 and 2001. There was no impact on our consolidated cash flows and results of operations for the CIT Group Sale in 2003 and 2002. The impact on our consolidated cash flows and results of operations of the CIT Group Sale in 2001 is shown below. 

We also entered into a vendor financing arrangement with CIT whereby CIT will provide equipment financing and leasing services to our customers on a global basis. This agreement has been in place since the fourth quarter of 2000. 

In addition to the CIT Group Sale and the sale of the healthcare solutions business, we sold assets related to portions of our businesses to third parties during 2002 and 2001. Gross proceeds from these dispositions were $31 million in 2002 and $13 million in 2001. Gains from the dispositions, included in other income (expense), net, in the consolidated statement of operations, were $15 million in 2002 and $9 million in 2001. There were no cash proceeds or gains from these dispositions in 2003. 

Sale of San Jose Land In February 2001, we sold a parcel of surplus land in San Jose, California for $287 million in cash, resulting in a pre-tax gain of approximately $269 million. In August 2001, we invested the proceeds in the leasehold of several municipal properties in southern California for a total value of $289 million. In 2002, we received $237 million in non-refundable prepaid rent related to the investment in leaseholds as described above. 

98 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 8. Net (Loss) Income Per Share The following is a reconciliation of the numerators and denominators of the basic and diluted net (loss) income per share computations for the periods presented below. 

Options to purchase 51 million shares of common stock at a weighted average exercise price of $29 per share were outstanding in 2003, but were not included in the computation of diluted net loss per share because the options were antidilutive for 2003. The options, which expire no later than 2013, were still outstanding at the end of 2003. Options to purchase 74 million shares of common stock at a weighted average exercise price of $40 per share were outstanding in 2002, but were not included in the computation of diluted net loss per share because the options were antidilutive for 2002. In 2001, options to purchase 64 million shares of common stock at a weighted average exercise price of $46 per share were outstanding, but were not included in the computation of diluted net income per share because the options were antidilutive. 

Our senior convertible debentures were also antidilutive during 2003 and 2002. Loss from continuing operations in both periods included approximately $34 million in interest expense associated with the senior convertible debentures. If the shares were dilutive, then this amount would be added back to loss from operations, and approximately 36 million of shares would be added to the weighted average number of shares for the purposes of calculating diluted income per share. See Note 17, Senior Convertible Debentures and Lines of Credit. 9. Supplemental Cash Flow Information Cash paid for income taxes was $122 million in 2003, $160 million in 2002 and $450 million in 2001. Cash paid for interest was $36 million in 2003, $36 million in 2002 and $28 million in 2001. 

Non-cash transactions were primarily related to the issuance of common stock under various employee stock plans in the amount of $0 in 2003, $23 million in 2002 and $26 million in 2001, and 99 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) acquisitions in the amount of $70 million in 2001. Prior to November 1, 2000, the Legacy Plan (See Note 5 Stock-Based Compensation ) included a company-matching element where the matching shares generally vested over two years. The final vesting period occurred in 2002. There will be no additional issuances of common stock related to the Legacy Plan in the future. 

10. Inventory Inventory-related charges of $11 million, $74 million and $460 million were recorded in total cost of products in 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. We record excess and obsolete inventory charges for both inventory on our site as well as inventory at our contract manufacturers and suppliers where we have non-cancelable purchase commitments. 

11. Property, Plant and Equipment, Net We have sold substantially all of our portfolio of operating leases to CIT. See Note 7, Acquisitions and Sale of Assets. Equipment under operating leases was $10 million at October 31, 2003 and $10 million at October 31, 2002 and was included in machinery and equipment. Accumulated depreciation related to equipment under operating leases was $8 million at October 31, 2003 and $5 million at October 31, 2002. 

100 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 12. Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets The following table presents goodwill balances as of October 31, 2003 and 2002 and the movements in the year ended October 31, 2003 for each of our reportable segments are shown below: The component parts of other intangibles as of October 31, 2003 and October 31, 2002 are shown in the table below: Amortization for purchased intangible assets was $45 million in 2003, $52 million in 2002 and $41 million in 2001. Amortization expense related to purchased intangible assets is estimated to be $14 million for 2004. 

During 2003, we recognized an impairment charge pursuant to SFAS No. 144 of approximately $10 million for intangible assets (representing developed technology and customer relationships) in our test and measurement business as a result of a decline in the projected cash flows. The impairment charge has been recorded in cost of sales ($8 million) and selling, general, and administrative ($2 million) in the consolidated statement of operations. 

101 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 13. Guarantees Standard Warranty A summary of the standard warranty accrual activity for October 31, 2003 and 2002 is shown in the table below: Extended Warranty Revenue for our extended warranty contracts with terms beyond one year is deferred and recognized on a straight line basis over the contract period. Related costs are expensed as incurred. Amounts recorded for extended warranty contracts are included in deferred revenue on the consolidated balance sheet. 

Lease Guarantees As of October 31, 2003, we have issued credit guarantees to CIT Group Inc. with an aggregate maximum exposure of $31 million that has been fully accrued as a component of other accrued liabilities. In addition to the credit guarantees, we gave CIT Group Inc. guarantees that could require us to repurchase individual leases if, for example, the documentation we provided to support the lease was not materially accurate. In our opinion, the fair value of these additional guarantees is not material. 

We have evaluated our relationship with the CIT Group Inc. and have determined that CIT is not a variable interest entity under FIN 46. 

102 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Indemnifications to Hewlett-Packard Company We have given multiple indemnities to Hewlett-Packard Company in connection with our activities prior to our spin-off from Hewlett-Packard for the businesses that constituted Agilent prior to the spin-off. These indemnifications cover a variety of aspects of our business, including, but not limited to, employee, tax, intellectual property and environmental matters. The agreements containing these indemnifications have been previously disclosed as exhibits to our registration statement on Form S-1 filed on August 16, 1999. In our opinion, the fair value of these indemnifications is not material. 

Indemnifications to Koninklijke Philips Electronics, N.V. ( Philips ) In connection with the sale of our healthcare solutions business to Philips on August 1, 2001, we indemnified Philips for various matters, including product liability issues arising within two years of the sale agreement. In our opinion, the fair value of these indemnifications is not material. 

Indemnifications to Officers and Directors Our corporate by-laws require that we indemnify our officers and directors, as well as those who act as directors and officers of other entities at our request, against expenses, judgments, fines, settlements and other amounts actually and reasonably incurred in connection with any proceedings arising out of their services to Agilent. In addition, we have entered into separate indemnification agreements with each director and each board-appointed officer of Agilent which provides for indemnification of these directors and officers under similar circumstances and under additional circumstances. The indemnification obligations are more fully described in the by-laws and the indemnification agreements. See Exhibits 3.2 and 10.7 of this document. We purchase standard insurance to cover claims or a portion of the claims made against our directors and officers. Since a maximum obligation is not explicitly stated in our by-laws or in our indemnification agreements and will depend on the facts and circumstances that arise out of any future claims, the overall maximum amount of the obligations cannot be reasonably estimated. Historically, we have not made payments related to these obligations, and the fair value for these obligations is zero on the consolidated balance sheet as of October 31, 2003. 

Other Indemnifications As is customary in our industry and as provided for in local law in the U.S. and other jurisdictions, many of our standard contracts provide remedies to our customers and others with whom we enter into contracts, such as defense, settlement, or payment of judgment for intellectual property claims related to the use of our products. From time to time, we indemnify customers, as well as our suppliers, contractors, lessors, lessees, companies that purchase our businesses or assets and others with whom we enter into contracts, against combinations of loss, expense, or liability arising from various triggering events related to the sale and the use of our products and services, the use of their goods and services, the use of facilities and state of our owned facilities, the state of the assets and businesses that we sell and other matters covered by such contracts, usually up to a specified maximum amount. In addition, from time to time we also provide protection to these parties against claims related to undiscovered liabilities, additional product liability or environmental obligations. In our experience, claims made under such indemnifications are rare and the associated estimated fair value of the liability is not material. 

103 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 14. Restructuring and Asset Impairment Summary We currently have three restructuring plans one initiated in the fourth quarter of 2001 (the 2001 Plan ), a second initiated in the fourth quarter of 2002 (the 2002 Plan ), and a third initiated in the first quarter of 2003 (the 2003 Plan ) after it became clear that the actions taken in fiscal 2001 and fiscal 2002 would not be sufficient to return the company to profitability. 

All of our plans were designed to reduce costs and expenses in order to return the company to profitability. As of the end of 2003, we have reduced our workforce by approximately 15,000 people (approximately 13,400 from involuntary terminations and approximately 1,600 from net attrition) to 29,000 employees. 

Our plans to consolidate excess facilities resulted in charges for lease termination fees and losses anticipated from sub-lease agreements. We have exited, or plan to exit in the near future, more than 110 production, support and sales facilities in the U.S., Korea, Japan, U.K. and other countries, representing more than 4.3 million square feet, or about 22 percent of our worldwide property. As of October 31, 2003, we had vacated approximately 90 percent of this space, however we will continue to make lease payments on some of this space over the next five years. We lease most of these buildings from third parties, and the closures impacted all segments. In most cases, we are exiting administrative office buildings housing sales and administrative employees. However, a small number of production facilities were closed as a result of our plans to consolidate manufacturing into fewer sites. 

Actions for all plans have been focused on segments that were impacted most severely by the market downturn primarily our test and measurement and semiconductor products groups but actions have also been taken to reduce the costs associated with support services such as finance, information technology, workplace services and to a lesser extent our other business segments. Cost reductions were initiated by moving manufacturing and some of our global shared services operations sites to lower cost regions, reducing the number of properties, particularly sales and administrative sites, and by reducing our workforce through involuntary terminations and selected outsourcing of manufacturing and administrative functions. Our strategy is to move towards a more variable operating cost structure. 

We have executed all key actions under our 2001 Plan, although there may be changes in estimates for the consolidation of excess facilities due to changes in market conditions from those originally expected at the time the charges were recorded. Our 2002 Plan is substantially complete. 

The 2001 Plan As a result of the economic downturn we announced a plan and reduced our workforce by approximately 8,400 jobs and reduced costs across all functions, primarily manufacturing and selling, general and administrative costs, including sales and marketing . 

Research and development activities were terminated on some product development initiatives, none of which were individually or in total significant to our future revenues or profitability. We also took actions to reduce the number of employees at production facilities that had experienced declining demand, such as those making equipment for the long-haul wireline business. This plan was designed to reduce costs across almost all of our administrative and support services, including sales and 104 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) marketing, and to focus our production activities on those products that we believed would return us to profitability, such as those in life sciences, semiconductor test and wireless telecommunications. Our plan impacted the test and measurement group and the semiconductor products group and had little direct impact on the automated test and life sciences and chemical analysis groups except as the plan related to support services reductions across all of our businesses. We reduced production capacity dramatically for communications test product lines and for product lines in networking, especially long-haul networks. We also reduced production capacity for some personal systems, general purpose and semiconductor test product lines. 

The three main components of the 2001 Plan related to workforce reductions, consolidation of excess facilities and impairments of property, plant and equipment. The impairments of machinery and equipment in our production facilities that we have closed or scaled back have been recognized. We have executed all key actions under this plan, however we will continue to make lease payments over the next five years. 

Asset impairment charges relate to fixed assets and were determined using estimates of the expected future cash flows generated from those assets. Impairments were recorded for machinery and equipment in production facilities that we were closing or scaling back, such as for the long-haul wireline business and for leasehold improvements in leased facilities that we planned to exit. One production facility in Kobe, Japan accounted for approximately $60 million of the $129 million of asset impairment charges in 2002. In order to determine the amount of the impairment, under the held-for-use model in accordance with SFAS No. 121, we estimated the cash flows that would result from our continued use of the building until we expect to vacate it and also estimated the sales proceeds that we expected to be able to realize. The resulting impairment was approximately 80 percent of the net book value of the facility, primarily due to the decline in the local property market. 

In 2002, we also took a $53 million charge for exiting a number of leased facilities. During 2003 we recorded an additional $15 million in net charges and adjustments due primarily to reductions in our estimate of expected sublease income. Due to the length of some of the lease terms and the uncertainty of the real estate market, we expect to make periodic adjustments to the accrual balance to reflect changes in our estimates, and to reflect actual events as they occur. 

The cost of the 2001 Plan through October 31, 2003 was $526 million; $154 million in 2001, $357 million in 2002 and $15 million in 2003. 

105 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) A summary of restructuring activity for the 2001 Plan through October 31, 2003 is shown in the table below: The 2002 Plan On August 19, 2002, we announced our intention to further reduce our workforce by 2,500 to achieve a quarterly operating cost structure of approximately $1.6 billion. This plan primarily affected the manufacturing and field operations serving the wireline markets that are components of our test and measurement group as well as information technology support services. 

As part of the 2002 Plan we have reduced our workforce by approximately 2,400 as of October 31, 2003. Similar to the 2001 Plan, this reduction impacted all regions, all expense categories and most of our segments particularly our test and measurement and semiconductor products segments. We continued to reduce the number of employees at production facilities that experienced declining demand, outsourced selective operations and also reduced the number of employees that provided information technology support services as we streamlined our operations with the implementation of our new information systems. 

We have incurred total asset impairment charges of $39 million. Asset impairment charges of $34 million recognized in 2002 relate to machinery and equipment, primarily owned by the semiconductor products group in Singapore. The equipment had been purchased in support of communications research but as a result of our restructuring plans we have decided to sell the equipment and conduct the research using existing equipment in the U.S. Asset impairment charges of $5 million recognized in 2003 primarily related to semiconductor products machinery and equipment that will be abandoned. The equipment had been purchased to support a manufacturing 106 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) facility whose operations will be moved as a result of our plans to consolidate our excess facilities. However, no material charges for the consolidation of excess facilities have yet occurred under the 2002 Plan. 

The cost of the 2002 Plan through October 31, 2003 was $166 million; $117 million in 2002 and $49 million in 2003. 

A summary of restructuring activity for the 2002 Plan through October 31, 2003 is shown in the table below: The 2003 Plan On February 21, 2003, we announced our intention to further reduce our quarterly operational costs to a level of $1.45 billion as part of the 2003 Plan. In order to accomplish this, we announced a workforce reduction of approximately 4,000 jobs in addition to previously-announced cuts. 

As part of the 2003 Plan we have reduced our workforce by approximately 4,300 as of October 31, 2003, primarily in our U.S. operations. Reductions were made across all businesses with significant reductions in our test and measurement and semiconductor products groups. We continued to reduce the number of employees at production facilities and employees that provide support services across all businesses. We have also reduced the number of research and development employees as we continue to look for opportunities to align our business with available markets. 

As we execute on all of our plans, we have continued to consolidate excess facilities. We have and plan to exit administrative office buildings, research and development facilities, and move manufacturing to lower cost regions. Our plan to consolidate excess facilities resulted in increased charges of $13 million for lease termination fees and losses anticipated from sub-lease agreements primarily located in Europe. 

As part of the 2003 Plan, we incurred asset impairment charges of $57 million for fixed assets primarily owned by our semiconductor products segment. Impairments were recorded for machinery, equipment and buildings used in research and development or production that are 107 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) impacted by our plans to consolidate excess facilities or are no longer needed due to over capacity. During the third quarter, we closed a production facility in the U.K. and have substantially vacated the remaining buildings on that site except for a minor portion of the facility, which will be used for research and development. We are progressing as planned through our transition towards reestablishing production in Singapore and have entered into an agreement to sell the site to a third party. In accordance with SFAS No. 144, we measured the assets at their fair value based on the sales agreement less the cost to sell. We recorded an impairment of $27 million as a result of the significant decline in the U.K. property market. 

As of October 31, 2003, the cost of the 2003 Plan was $308 million. 

A summary of restructuring activity for the 2003 Plan through October 31, 2003 is shown in the table below: Summary information for combined plans The restructuring accrual for all plans, which totaled $89 million as of October 31, 2003 and $148 million as of October 31, 2002 (for the 2001 and 2002 Plans only), is recorded in other accrued liabilities on the consolidated balance sheet and represents estimated future cash outlays. Lease payments are expected over the next 5 years. Other payments, primarily severance, are expected within a one-year period. 

A summary of the statement of operations impact of the charges resulting from the all of the restructuring plans is shown below. 

108 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Other asset impairment charges In July 2003, we recorded an impairment charge pursuant to SFAS No. 144 of approximately $10 million for intangible assets (representing developed technology and customer relationships) in our test and measurement business as a result of a decline in the projected cash flows. The impairment charge has been recorded in cost of sales and selling, general, and administrative in the consolidated statement of operations. 

In June 2001, we recorded a $74 million asset impairment charge with respect to our decision to cancel the development of a software system for our customer support activities. We entered into an agreement with Hewlett-Packard to extend our use of their legacy customer support systems in place of the one that we were developing. In 2002, we began to develop a new Customer Relationship Management ( CRM ) system independent from Hewlett-Packard. 

We also incurred asset impairment charges primarily to write down investments that we hold on a cost basis to their fair value. Impairment charges related to these asset impairments were $15 million in 2003, $24 million in 2002 and $8 million in 2001. These impairment charges were recorded in cost and expenses and other income (expense), net in the consolidated statement of operations. 

15. Retirement Plans and Post Retirement Benefits General. 

Substantially all of our employees are covered under various defined benefit and/or defined contribution plans. Additionally, we sponsor post retirement health care benefits and a death benefit under the Agilent Survivor Protection Plan for our eligible U.S. employees. 

Restructuring. 

Beginning in late 2001, we carried out plans to reduce our workforce by approximately 8,000 employees. In the U.S., employees affected by restructuring were offered a choice of remaining as a deferred terminated participant in the Agilent Retirement Plan (the Retirement Plan ) or taking a distribution from the Retirement Plan. In the funded status table below, amounts relating to settlements of benefit obligations due to employees affected by restructuring are treated as regular plan payments. Additionally, eligible employees (i.e., those who met eligibility requirements as of their individual termination dates) were offered the opportunity to elect to receive benefits under the Agilent Continued Group Medical or SeniorMed Programs. Outside the U.S., subject to local statutory and other practical limitations, employees affected by restructuring were offered the choice of remaining in the applicable retirement plans or taking distributions from those plans. 

In accordance with SFAS No. 88, Employer s Accounting for Settlements and Curtailments of Defined Benefit Pension Plans and for Termination Benefits , workforce-related events such as restructuring cause curtailment and settlement gains or losses when they have a material impact on the average future working lifetime or total number of participants in our retirement and postretirement plans. Our restructuring program has resulted in material changes to our plan demographics in the U.S. and several other countries. The curtailment and settlement gains and losses related to each event are separately identified in the tables that follow. 

Spin-off from Hewlett-Packard. 

On or before June 2, 2000, we assumed responsibility for pension, deferred profit-sharing, 401(k) and other post retirement benefits from Hewlett-Packard for current and former employees whose last work assignment prior to the spin-off was with Agilent. 

109 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) These current and former employees are collectively referred to as Agilent Employees. In the U.S., the Hewlett-Packard Company Retirement Plan and Deferred Profit-Sharing Plan Master Trust was converted to the Group Trust for the Hewlett-Packard Company Deferred Profit-Sharing Plan and Retirement Plan and the Agilent Technologies, Inc. Deferred Profit-Sharing Plan and Retirement Plan (the Group Trust ), and a pro rata share of the assets of the Group Trust was assigned to the Agilent Deferred Profit-Sharing Plan Trust and the Agilent Retirement Plan Trust. Outside the U.S., generally, a pro rata share of the Hewlett-Packard pension assets, if any, were transferred or otherwise assigned to the Agilent entity in accordance with local law or practice. The pro rata share was in the same proportion as the projected benefit obligation for Agilent Employees was to the total projected benefit obligation of Hewlett-Packard and Agilent combined. For all periods presented, the consolidated financial statements include the trust assets, liabilities and expenses that were assigned to Agilent. 

Pension and deferred profit-sharing plans. 

Worldwide pension costs included in loss from continuing operations were $187 million in 2003, $122 million in 2002 and $81 million in 2001. 

U.S. employees who meet eligibility criteria under the Retirement Plan are provided pension benefits under the Retirement Plan. Defined benefits are generally based on an employee s highest five consecutive years average pay during the years of employment and length of service. For eligible service through October 31, 1993, the benefit payable under the Retirement Plan is reduced by any amounts due to the eligible employee under our fixed and frozen defined contribution Deferred Profit-Sharing Plan ( DPSP ), which was closed to new participants in November 1993. 

As of October 31, 2003 and 2002, the status of the Retirement Plan and DPSP for U.S. Agilent Employees follows. 

Eligible employees outside the U.S. generally receive retirement benefits under various retirement plans based upon factors such as years of service and employee compensation levels. Eligibility is generally determined in accordance with local statutory requirements. 

Post retirement benefit plans. 

In addition to receiving pension benefits, our U.S. employees who meet retirement eligibility requirements as of their termination dates may participate in our Continued Group Medical or SeniorMed Plans. Substantially all of our current U.S. employees could become eligible for these benefits, and the existing benefit obligation relates primarily to those employees. Once participating in a medical plan, retirees may choose from managed-care and indemnity options, with their contributions dependent on the options chosen and length of service. Our U.S. retirees are also covered by a death benefit that is part of the Agilent Survivor Protection Plan. This benefit provides a fixed sum to retirees survivors and is available to all retirees regardless of length of service or compensation. 

401(k) defined contribution plan. 

Our U.S. eligible employees may participate in the Agilent Technologies, Inc. 401(k) Plan ( the 401(k) Plan ). Enrollment in the 401(k) Plan is automatic for 110 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) employees who meet eligibility requirements unless they decline participation. Under the 401(k) Plan, we provide matching contributions to employees up to a maximum of 4 percent of an employee s annual eligible compensation. The maximum contribution to the 401(k) Plan is 20 percent of an employee s annual eligible compensation, subject to regulatory and plan limitations. Our expense included in loss from continuing operations related to the 401(k) Plan was $41 million in 2003, $48 million in 2002 and $53 million in 2001. 

Components of net periodic cost. 

For the years ended October 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001, our net pension and post retirement benefit costs were comprised of: 111 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Funded status. 

As of October 31, 2003 and 2002, the funded status of the defined benefit and post retirement benefit plans was: 112 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Plan assets consist primarily of listed stocks and bonds. Our Retirement Plan assets are allocated approximately 80 percent to equities and approximately 20 percent to fixed income investments. Our DPSP assets are allocated approximately 60 percent to equities and approximately 40 percent to fixed income investments. Allocation between equities and fixed income investments varies by plan in countries outside the U.S., but all plans assets are broadly diversified both domestically and overseas. 

As of October 31, 2003 and October 31, 2002, all of our defined benefit plans had projected benefit obligations ( PBO ) that were in excess of the fair value of the plan assets. The amounts of the obligations and assets for the plans were: An additional minimum pension liability adjustment was required for our pension plans in Germany, Japan and the United Kingdom during 2003 as the accumulated benefit obligation of $439 million for those plans exceeded the $408 million of pension plan assets for those plans as of the measurement date. The $31 million difference was increased by $105 million for net prepaid pension costs for all of the affected plans and reduced by $4 million for intangible assets in the United Kingdom s plan and one of the Japanese plans, resulting in a gross additional minimum pension liability of $132 million. Of this amount, $92 million impacted accumulated comprehensive loss in 2003, offset by $40 million applied to deferred tax assets. An additional minimum pension liability adjustment was required for our pension plans in Germany, Japan and the United Kingdom during 2002 as the accumulated benefit obligation of $529 million for those plans exceeded the $441 million of pension plan assets for those plans as of the measurement date. The $88 million difference was increased by $142 million for net prepaid pension costs for all of the affected plans and reduced by $6 million for intangible assets in the United Kingdom s plan and one of the Japanese plans, resulting in a gross additional minimum pension liability of $224 million. Of this amount, $146 million impacted accumulated comprehensive loss in 2002, offset by $78 million applied to deferred tax assets. 

113 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Assumptions. 

The assumptions used to determine the benefit obligations and expense for our defined benefit and postretirement benefit plans are presented in the table below. The impacts of the assumptions listed for the years 2003, 2002 and 2001 have already been recognized in our consolidated statement of operations. The assumptions for the year 2004 were used to determine the obligations presented as of October 31, 2003 in the funded status table above, and their impacts will be recognized in our consolidated statements of operations during 2004. 

Assumed health care trend rates could have a significant effect on the amounts reported for health care plans. A one percentage point change in the assumed health care cost trend rates for the year ended October 31, 2004 would have the following effects: 114 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 16. Other Accrued Liabilities Other accrued liabilities and other long-term liabilities at October 31, 2003 and 2002 were as follows: 17. Senior Convertible Debentures and Lines of Credit Senior convertible debentures. 

On November 27, 2001, we completed a private offering of $1.15 billion aggregate principal amount of three percent senior convertible debentures (the debentures ) due 2021 and generated net proceeds of $1.12 billion after deducting fees and expenses. The debentures are convertible at any time into our common stock at an initial conversion price of $32.22 per share, subject to adjustment (as defined in the related Indenture dated November 27, 2001). They are redeemable for cash at the company s option beginning at any time on or after December 6, 2004 at a price equal to 100 percent of the principal amount plus interest. Holders of the debentures have the ability to require us to repurchase the debentures, in whole or in part, on December 1 in each of 2006, 2011 and 2016. Holders also have the right to require us to repurchase all or a portion of the outstanding debentures if the company undergoes a Fundamental Change (as defined in the Indenture). The debentures bear interest at an annual rate of three percent, which is payable on June 1 and December 1 of each year beginning June 1, 2002. The interest rate will reset (as defined in the Indenture) in June 2006, June 2011 and June 2016, but in no event will it be reset below three percent or above five percent per annum. To date there have been no adjustments to the conversion price of the debentures. 

Lines of credit. 

Effective November 1, 2002, we terminated our $250 million five-year revolving credit facility that was due to expire on November 5, 2005 and did not extend the $250 million 364-day revolving credit facility that expired on November 1, 2002. There were no balances outstanding under either facility at October 31, 2002. 

115 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 18. Commitments Operating lease commitments. 

We lease certain real and personal property from unrelated third parties. Future minimum lease payments under non-cancelable operating leases at October 31, 2003 were $95 million for 2004, $82 million for 2005, $64 million for 2006, $49 million for 2007, $40 million for 2008 and $89 million thereafter. Certain leases require us to pay property taxes, insurance and routine maintenance, and include escalation clauses. Rent expense was $126 million in 2003, $177 million in 2002 and $100 million in 2001. 

19. Contingencies We are involved in lawsuits, claims, investigations and proceedings, including patent, commercial and environmental matters that arise in the ordinary course of business. There are no such matters pending that we expect to be material in relation to our business, consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 

20. Segment Information Description of segments. 

We are a diversified technology company that provides enabling solutions to customers in markets within the communications, electronics, life sciences and chemical analysis industries. 

In 2003, we decided to separately report the automated test operating segment that was previously reported as part of our test and measurement reportable segment. Management made this decision to provide more information to our investors. 

We organize our business operations into four major groups test and measurement, automated test, semiconductor products, and life sciences and chemical analysis each of which comprises a reportable segment. The segments were determined based primarily on how the chief operating decision maker views and evaluates our operations. Other factors, including customer base, homogeneity of products, technology and delivery channels, were also considered in determining our reportable segments. 

Our four reportable segments are as follows: 116 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Segment revenue and profit. 

The accounting policies used to derive reportable segment results are generally the same as those described in Note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies. A significant portion of the segments expenses arise from shared services and infrastructure that we have historically provided to the segments in order to realize economies of scale and to efficiently use resources. These expenses, collectively called corporate charges, include costs of centralized research and development, legal, accounting, employee benefits, real estate, insurance services, information technology services, treasury and other corporate infrastructure expenses. 

In 2003, we changed the methods by which corporate charges were allocated to the segments. This change impacted the cost of goods and services, research and development and selling, general and administrative expenses and (loss) income from operations recorded by each of the segments, but did not impact our consolidated results from operations or cash flows. Information provided with respect to prior periods has been reclassified to reflect these changes. Charges are allocated to the segments and the allocations have been determined on a basis that we considered to be a reasonable reflection of the utilization of services provided to or benefits received by the segments. 

The following tables reflect the results of our reportable segments under our management reporting system. These results are not necessarily a depiction that is in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. The performance of each segment is measured based on several metrics, including (loss) income from operations. These results are used, in part, by the chief operating decision maker in evaluating the performance of, and in allocating resources to, each of the segments. 

The profitability of each of the segments is measured after excluding goodwill, other intangible amortization and restructuring and asset impairment charges. 

117 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) The following table reconciles segment results to Agilent s total enterprise results from continuing operations before taxes: Major customers. 

No customer represented 10 percent or more of our total net revenue in 2003, 2002 or 2001. 

During 2003, we changed the basis by which segment assets are measured and reported to the chief operating decision maker whereby segment assets are now comprised of inventory, accounts receivable, property, plant and equipment and gross goodwill and other intangibles. Unallocated assets primarily consist of cash and cash equivalents, net deferred tax assets, accumulated amortization of goodwill and other intangibles, investment in equity-method investees and other assets. The following table reflects the updated measure of segment assets, capital expenditures and equity method investments directly managed by each segment. All amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current period presentation: 118 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) The following table reconciles segment assets to Agilent s total assets: Geographic Information 119 QUARTERLY SUMMARY (Unaudited) 120 NOTES: 121 SIGNATURES Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized. 

Date: December 22, 2003 122 POWER OF ATTORNEY KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that each person whose signature appears below constitutes and appoints D. Craig Nordlund and Marie Oh Huber, or either of them, his or her attorneys-in-fact, for such person in any and all capacities, to sign any amendments to this report and to file the same, with exhibits thereto, and other documents in connection therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby ratifying and confirming all that either of said attorneys-in-fact, or substitute or substitutes, may do or cause to be done by virtue hereof. Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated. 

123 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 