http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1090872/000109581101000226/f67706e10-k.txt
http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1090872/000109581101000226/0001095811-01-000226-index.html
18550000000.0
A
2000-10-31
10-K
A_2000-10-31_10-K.txt

ITEM 1. BUSINESS. 

OVERVIEW BUSINESS Agilent Technologies is a global diversified technology company that provides enabling solutions to high growth markets within the communications, electronics, healthcare and life sciences industries. The Company has four primary businesses: - test and measurement, which provides test instruments, standard and customized test, measurement and monitoring instruments and systems for the design, manufacture and support of electronics and communications devices and software for the design of high-frequency electronic and communications devices; - semiconductor products, which provides fiber optic communications devices and assemblies, integrated circuits for wireless applications, application-specific integrated circuits, optoelectronics and image sensors; - healthcare solutions, which provides patient monitoring, ultrasound imaging, cardiology products and systems and related services and supplies; and - chemical analysis, which provides analytical instruments, systems and services for chromatography, spectroscopy and bio-instrumentation. 

On March 2, 1999, Hewlett-Packard announced a plan to create a separate company, subsequently named Agilent Technologies, Inc., that comprised Hewlett-Packard's test and measurement, semiconductor products, healthcare solutions and chemical analysis businesses, related portions of Hewlett-Packard Laboratories, and associated infrastructure. Hewlett-Packard and we have entered into various agreements related to certain interim and ongoing relationships between the two companies. More information about the ongoing relationships with Hewlett-Packard is contained in Item 7 of this report. 

Our test and measurement and semiconductor businesses share focus on growth opportunities in the communications sector, while our healthcare and chemical analysis businesses share focus on growth opportunities in healthcare and life sciences. On November 17, 2000, Agilent announced that Koninklijke Philips Electronics, N.V. ("Philips") would acquire Agilent's healthcare solutions business, as more specifically discussed below under "Healthcare Solutions" and in Note 19, "Subsequent Events," to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this report. 

On October 13, 2000, we entered into a vendor financing agreement with The CIT Group, Inc. ("CIT") whereby CIT will provide equipment financing and leasing services to Agilent's customers on a global basis. CIT will be responsible for all operations, services and funding related to financing and leasing. Under the terms of the agreement, CIT established a wholly-owned subsidiary, Agilent Financial Services, Inc. ("AFS") and is offering financing products to our customers under this name. This arrangement is discussed below in Note 3, "Acquisitions and Dispositions," to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this report. 

1 4 We sell our products primarily through our direct sales force, but we also utilize distributors, resellers, telesales and electronic commerce. Of our total net revenue of $10.8 billion in the fiscal year ended October 31, 2000, we generated 44.2% in the United States and 55.8% internationally. As of October 31, 2000, we employed approximately 47,000 people worldwide. We have major research and development and manufacturing sites in California, Colorado, Delaware, Massachusetts, and Washington in the United States and in China, Germany, Japan, Malaysia, Singapore and the United Kingdom. 

Our net revenue by business segment for each of the years ending October 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998 was: More financial information about the business segments is contained in Note 18, "Segment Information," of the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this report. Hewlett-Packard accounted for 6.5% of our total net revenue in the fiscal year ended October 31, 2000, 10.0% in fiscal year 1999 and 8.8% in fiscal year 1998. 

AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES LABORATORIES All of our businesses are supported by the technological expertise of Agilent Technologies Laboratories, one of the world's foremost industrial research and development organizations. Agilent Technologies Laboratories consists of those operations of Hewlett-Packard Laboratories that historically conducted basic research in our focus areas. Agilent Technologies Laboratories works with our businesses in design, development and manufacturing engineering, and substantially all of its development staff are aligned with the research and development teams in our individual businesses. 

Agilent Technologies Laboratories is located primarily in Palo Alto, California and employs approximately 500 people. Approximately half of the 300 technical professionals in Agilent Technologies Laboratories have doctoral degrees and over 75% have some form of advanced degree. On average, 80 patents have been issued annually to Agilent Technologies in recent years, based on inventions made in Agilent Technologies Laboratories. 

TEST AND MEASUREMENT Our test and measurement business is a leader in providing test and measurement solutions to companies in the communications, electronics, semiconductor and related industries. We provide standard and customized solutions that are used in the design, development, manufacture, installation, deployment and operation of electronic equipment and systems. These solutions include test and measurement instruments and systems, automated test equipment, communications network monitoring, management, and optimization tools and software design tools and associated services. Our solutions are employed by a wide range of industries, including: - communications and network equipment manufacturers, including providers of fiber optic, wireless and wireline components, products and systems; - providers of communications services, including telecommunications, Internet and cellular service providers; 2 5 - designers and manufacturers of semiconductor products, including microprocessors, memory devices, Application Specific Integrated Circuits ("ASICs"), radio frequency and microwave integrated circuits and other types of integrated circuits; and - designers and manufacturers of electronic equipment, including printed circuit board assemblies and electronic equipment, such as cellular handsets, personal computers and avionics equipment. 

Our test and measurement business employed approximately 21,100 people as of October 31, 2000. We serve customers in more than 110 countries and sell our products primarily through our direct sales force, as well as through resellers, distributors, telesales and electronic commerce. Our products are complemented by service and support offerings such as consulting, training, local solutions integration, and instrument calibration and repair. We have manufacturing and research and development facilities in Australia, Canada, China, Germany, Japan, Korea, Malaysia, Singapore, the United Kingdom and the United States. Our test and measurement business generated $6.1 billion in revenue in fiscal 2000 and $4.1 billion in both fiscal 1999 and 1998. 

MARKETS The market for our test and measurement products comprises three major customer groups: - communications network equipment manufacturers and service providers; - electronic component and equipment manufacturers; and - semiconductor manufacturers and purchasers of semiconductors. 

Communications Network Equipment Manufacturers and Service Providers Network equipment manufacturers provide products to facilitate the transmission of voice and data traffic. This transmission may be in various forms, such as electronic signals over copper wire, optical signals over fiber cables, and radio frequency or microwave signals. The customers of the network equipment manufacturers are the communications service providers that deploy and operate the networks. These service providers require network equipment that enables their networks to operate at increasingly faster speeds while providing rapidly expanding capacity and superior reliability. To meet these demands, network component and equipment manufacturers require test and measurement instruments, systems and solutions for the development, production, installation and operation of each new network technology. 

Communications and Internet service providers also require a range of sophisticated test instruments and systems to evaluate network performance and to identify any sources of communications failure. Additionally, these customers require advanced software and systems to monitor and manage the network infrastructure on a continuous, proactive basis to achieve either regulated or customer-specified service levels. Real-time monitoring of the network infrastructure also enables the implementation of additional services, such as fraud detection, which customers increasingly require of service providers. 

The market for cellular telephony has increased dramatically in recent years, as the levels of wireless penetration in developed countries have grown rapidly. Many lesser-developed countries have decided to build wireless communications infrastructure to meet their nations' needs for telephony, rather than invest in expensive wire-based infrastructure. To develop cellular telephone equipment, manufacturers require electronic design software and test instruments and systems for the development of high-frequency communications circuits, devices and systems. Cellular equipment manufacturers also require advanced, high-frequency test instruments and systems to develop, manufacture and deploy cellular base stations for these wireless networks. In addition, the rapid growth of the cellular handset market has created a new market segment for automated test equipment to test cellular handsets on the factory floor. 

Further, as new standards evolve in the wireless industry, new test and measurement equipment and systems have to be developed to enable testing of the new standards in the research and development and later in the manufacturing and deployment phases. 

We believe that in the last several years, producers of networking communications equipment have increased their use of contract manufacturers. 

Contract manufacturers require test solutions that are 3 6 particularly well-suited for faster production and flexible for use in different applications. Recently, mobile phone and appliance producers have also begun to increase their use of contract manufacturers, including using contract manufacturers for functional test. This requires specialized test products and services to address the particular needs of these high-frequency products. 

Electronic Equipment Manufacturers The electronics industry designs, develops and manufactures a wide range of products, including products produced in high volumes, such as computers, computer peripherals, electronic components, printed circuit assemblies and consumer electronics. These components and printed circuit assemblies may be designed, developed and manufactured by electronic components companies, by original equipment manufacturers or by third-party contract manufacturers. For the development and timely commercialization of new technologies, original equipment manufacturers require state-of-the-art test instruments, systems and software design tools in order to design the products for efficient and cost-effective manufacturing and validate product performance in a variety of configurations and environments. 

High volume manufacturers of electronics products, such as printed circuit board assemblies, require sophisticated automated test equipment to operate and perform highly accurate tests at speeds and volumes matching those of the production line. This equipment includes in-circuit testing systems, automated x-ray inspection systems and automated optical inspection systems, all of which examine the printed circuit assemblies for manufacturing defects. Manufacturers are also beginning to demand automated functional test systems, which test an electronic device as if it were in its final environment. 

Electronics manufacturing also requires standardized test instruments, system components and complete solutions. Aerospace and defense are important markets for standardized electronic equipment because of the high electronic content of advanced defense systems and defense-related communications and surveillance equipment. We believe that following recent reductions in defense spending, defense purchasers are shifting from specialized test equipment to off-the-shelf test products and systems. 

Semiconductor Manufacturers Semiconductor test systems are used by semiconductor designers, semiconductor manufacturers and electronic component manufacturers in the design, manufacture and testing of a wide variety of semiconductor products, including logic, memory, mixed analog and digital signal, and system-on-a-chip integrated circuits. Semiconductor test systems are sold to semiconductor manufacturers and assembly and test subcontractors to the semiconductor industry. 

According to VLSI Research, the market for automatic test equipment for semiconductor manufacturing was approximately $3.3 billion in 1998 and is expected to grow at a compound annual rate of approximately 20% over the next five years. Demand for this test equipment is driven primarily by the increased volume of semiconductor devices produced. Advances in semiconductor technology are also increasing demand for semiconductor test equipment. The development of increasingly faster and more complex semiconductor devices stimulates demand for testers capable of evaluating these high-speed devices. In addition, the continuing integration of functions, such as microprocessor, logic and memory, on a single integrated circuit has created a new category of device called system-on-a-chip. These devices require a new category of sophisticated and flexible automatic test equipment. 

STRATEGY Our test and measurement business pursues the following strategies to extend our global leadership position as the communications and electronics industries shift to new business models and value chains. 

ADDRESS THE NEEDS OF THE WIRELESS AND INTERNET COMMUNICATIONS MARKET Our greatest focus is on providing product leadership and application-focused solutions to high-growth markets where wireless, Internet and computing technologies are converging. We have targeted our test and 4 7 measurement products and services to enable our customers in this high-growth segment to bring their new technologies to market. 

IDENTIFY CUSTOMERS' BUSINESS AND TECHNOLOGY NEEDS, THEN LEVERAGE ACROSS THE VALUE CHAIN Agilent addresses the business and technology needs of players across the wireless and Internet communications value chain, from component manufacturers, network equipment manufacturers, and contract and design manufacturers to content providers, operators and service providers. A key success factor for this strategy is development of technologies and platforms that are reusable and leverageable, enabling us to deploy new solutions and systems faster. 

SATISFY CUSTOMERS THROUGH OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE A key component of our strategy is to make customer experience a competitive advantage by achieving operational excellence in three areas: sales and support experience, whether contact is via the web, email, by telephone or in person; global manufacturing and supply chain management so that customers will receive high-quality products, when they need them; and product generation. 

FOCUS INTENTLY ON LEADING EDGE CUSTOMERS By engaging in collaborative, co-development relationships with wireless and Internet communications leaders such as Nokia, Ericsson and Motorola, component manufacturers such as Murata, contract manufacturers such as Solectron Corp., Flextronics International and SCI and service providers such as AT&T Wireless, Verizon Wireless, China Unicom and Vodaphone, we are developing solutions that support next generation technologies and enable these leaders to maximize their performance and continue to lead their industry. 

BUILD A NEW GLOBAL CAPABILITY IN SOLUTIONS, SYSTEMS AND SERVICES Our strategy is to leverage the technologies, platforms and knowledge we acquire from growing our core product categories into application-focused solutions, world-class systems and high-value services. These programs will dramatically increase our growth potential by building on and strengthening our customer relationships as we move up the value chain; and by creating a services-based annuity stream that offsets capital equipment cycles. 

PRODUCTS Our test and measurement business designs, develops and manufactures test and design products that range from single-unit electronic measurement devices priced under $1,000 to large scale integrated test solutions priced at $1 million and higher. 

Communications Equipment Test Solutions We provide test solutions for fiber optic, broadband wire-based, radio frequency and microwave communications networks and products. 

Fiber Optics. Our products include optical signal and spectrum analysis instruments used by the industry's leading equipment manufacturers to develop and manufacture reliable optical components. Our products also include network analyzers and high-speed bit-error rate testers that measure key transmission properties of high-speed optical and electrical signals. 

Broadband and Data Networks. Our Internet Advisor product line helps to troubleshoot high-speed local area networks, wide area networks and asynchronous transfer mode networks. We also provide cable television test equipment. 

Wireless Communications and Microwave. Our radio frequency and microwave test instruments assist in the design and production of cellular handsets and base stations, as well as satellite and aerospace defense 5 8 systems. Examples of our radio frequency and microwave products include network analyzers, spectrum analyzers and signal sources. 

Communications Service Test and Monitoring Solutions Our acceSS7 product is designed to allow major communications service providers that use the communications network protocol Signaling System 7 (SS7) to monitor and analyze their signaling network traffic for network performance and management, fraud management and billing of interconnecting service providers. Similarly, our AccessFiber products and solutions perform fault detection and monitor fiber optic communications networks. Our Firehunter network management software solution provides performance monitoring, analysis and reporting capabilities for Internet service providers. 

We also market benchtop and handheld measurement devices such as lightwave multimeters, power meters and optical sources. 

Electronics Design and Manufacturing Solutions General Purpose Instruments. General purpose instruments are used principally by engineers in research and development laboratories, manufacturing, calibration and service for measuring voltage, current, frequency, signal pulse width and other standard electronics measurements. 

Examples of general purpose instruments include digitizing oscilloscopes, voltmeters and multimeters, frequency counters, bench and system power supplies, and function generators and waveform synthesizers. 

Modular Instruments and Test Software. Our modular instruments and test software, including instruments incorporating the VXI bus and modular measurement system software, is used to dynamically configure and reconfigure test systems for designers and manufacturers of electronic devices. 

Data Acquisition Devices. Data acquisition and control products include digital-to-analog converters that are attached to sensors to measure a wide range of physical data such as temperature, airplane wing strain and vibrations in cars, jet engines and power generation equipment. 

Digital Design Products. These systems range from simple digital control circuits to complex, high-speed servers incorporating the latest microprocessor technology. Our digital design products include logic analyzers, logic-signal sources and data generators. 

Automated In-Circuit Testing. Our in-circuit testers use a probe fixture which makes electrical contact with the circuit board and enables electrical measurements. 

Automated X-ray Inspection. Our leading x-ray inspection products provide a three-dimensional scan of printed circuit board assemblies to identify and isolate quality defects caused by the manufacturing process. Using patented techniques, our products can look through a device to identify structural defects in soldering that are not identified by visual inspection and that may not be detected with in-circuit testing. 

Automated Optical Inspection. Our automated optical inspection line of products enables automated visual inspection of printed circuit assemblies. 

These systems are able to locate, with a high degree of repeatability and reliability, misplaced and misaligned parts, gross solder defects and other process faults without the need for a human inspector. 

Intelligent Test. Our AwareTest Software enables customers to design test processes that avoid unnecessary test duplication. For example, an in-circuit test device will receive information about the faults that have already been detected by an x-ray inspection system and not repeat the test of that circuit. 

Semiconductor Automated Test Equipment We produce semiconductor test equipment to perform electrical and functional testing of the operation of memory, logic, mixed signal, systems-on-a-chip, and radio frequency integrated circuits. Our parametric test instruments and systems combine hardware technology and customizable system software, and are used to 6 9 examine semiconductor wafers during the semiconductor manufacturing process. Our product development efforts are targeted at leading edge technologies, such as systems-on-a-chip and high-speed memory products. 

Our semiconductor test products test a variety of different circuit types. 

These devices are usually tested after final assembly, but the testing of some devices is most effective immediately after the production of the silicon wafer, when the wafers are sorted. We believe we are the industry leader in wafer-sort test solutions for flash memory devices, which retain data even when the power is turned off and that are critical for use in digital cameras, cellular phones, personal digital assistants and storage of portable digital audio files. Our flash memory test products can test as many as 36 devices in parallel, greatly improving test throughput and lowering test costs for our customers. 

High-Frequency Electronic Design Tools Our high-frequency electronic design automation software tools are used by radio frequency integrated circuit design engineers to model, simulate and analyze communications product designs at the circuit and system levels. 

CUSTOMERS We market our test and measurement solutions to customers across a broad array of industries. Several of our customers purchase products across several of our major product lines for their different business units. 

A representative list of the customers of our test and measurement business follows: SALES, MARKETING AND SUPPORT We have a focused sales strategy to strengthen customer satisfaction. Our direct sales force is focused on identifying customer needs and recommending solutions involving the effective use and deployment of our equipment and systems. Some members of our direct sales force focus on global accounts, providing uniform services on a worldwide basis. Others focus on our more complex products such as our communications monitoring systems and our automated test equipment, where customers require intensive strategic consultation. Our sales force also specifically targets the contract manufacturer market by collaborating with original equipment manufacturers to specify that our test equipment be used by contract manufacturers, as well as marketing to contract manufacturers directly. 

Our direct sales force consists of field engineers and systems engineers who often hold advanced degrees and who have in-depth knowledge of the customers' business and technology needs. Some of our field engineers are account managers for our large accounts, and enhance our understanding of the future needs of these customers. Our systems engineers provide a combination of consulting, systems integration and application and software engineering services, and are instrumental in all stages of the sale, implementation and support of our complex systems and solutions. We also use value-added resellers to address specific market segments. 

7 10 MANUFACTURING We concentrate our test and measurement manufacturing efforts primarily on final assembly and test of our products. To maximize our productivity and our ability to respond to market conditions, we use contract manufacturers for the production of printed circuit boards, sheetmetal fabrication, metal die casting, plastic molding and standard electronic components. We also manufacture proprietary devices and assemblies, such as x-ray tubes and high-frequency integrated circuits and devices, in our own foundries for competitive advantage. 

COMPETITION The market for test and measurement equipment is highly competitive, and we expect this competition to increase. We believe that the principal factors of competition are: - speed, accuracy and cost of test; - breadth of product offerings; - scalability and flexibility of products; - ease of product use; - ability to upgrade product platform; - time to market of new technologies; - adherence to industry standards; - ability to support emerging industry protocols; and - ability to provide localized service and support on a worldwide basis. 

Our test and measurement business competes with a number of significant competitors in all our major product categories and across our targeted industries. In communications test, our primary competitors are Anritsu, IFR Systems, Inc./Marconi Communications Ltd., Network Associates, Inc., Rhode & Schwartz, Tektronix, Inc. and Wandel & Goltermann Technologies, Inc./Wavetek Corporation, as well as INET Technologies, Inc. and Micromuse Inc. in the communications network monitoring market. In the semiconductor test market, we compete primarily against Advantest Corporation, Schlumberger Limited and Teradyne. In the printed circuit board test market, a segment of the electronics manufacturing market, we compete against GenRad, Inc. and Teradyne. In the general purpose electronic test market, we compete against companies such as Fluke Corporation (a subsidiary of Danaher Corporation), Keithley Instruments, Inc., LeCroy Corporation, National Instruments Corporation and Tektronix. 

We sell our products in several industries that are characterized by rapid technological changes, frequent new product and service introductions and evolving industry standards. Without the timely introduction of new products, services and enhancements, our products and services will likely become technologically obsolete over time, in which case our revenue and operating results would suffer. The success of our new product and service offerings will depend on several factors, including our ability to properly identify customer needs, price our products competitively, innovate and develop new technologies and applications, successfully commercialize new technologies in a timely manner, manufacture and deliver our products in sufficient volumes on time, and differentiate our offerings from our competitors' offerings. 

SEMICONDUCTOR PRODUCTS Our semiconductor products business is a leading supplier of semiconductor components, modules and assemblies for high performance communications systems. 

We design, develop and manufacture products for the networking, wireless, and imaging markets. 

8 11 We believe we are the leading provider of: - fiber optic communications transceiver (transmitter/receiver) modules used for high speed data communications; - integrated circuits for storage area networks based on the Fibre Channel protocol, a protocol for communications among storage area networks; - infrared components for data communications (IrDA); - Light emitting diodes (LEDs) and displays; - ASICs to Hewlett-Packard for its scanners and printers; and - CMOS image sensors used to capture images in digital cameras and as position sensors in computer mice. 

As of October 31, 2000, our semiconductor products business had approximately 10,200 employees worldwide. We have eleven major design centers and eight manufacturing sites around the world. Our semiconductor products business generated revenue of $2.2 billion in fiscal year 2000, $1.7 billion in fiscal year 1999 and $1.6 billion in fiscal year 1998. 

MARKETS Our semiconductor products business serves two markets: - communications (its primary focus); and - computing. 

Communications High-Speed Networking. The advent of the Internet as a communications medium has dramatically increased business and consumer demand for high-speed, reliable access to data and, as a result, has placed considerable stress on existing communications networks. In data communications, speed is measured in the number of bits of data per second that can be transmitted across the network. Fiber optic cables can carry very large amounts of data in a small space and are immune to electrical and magnetic interference. 

We are a major supplier of fiber optic transceivers, which convert digital data into light signals for transmission, and convert light signals back into digital form on the receiving end of the communication. We market fiber optic transceivers for both short-range, local area network applications and long-range, wide area network applications to major telecommunications and data networking equipment vendors such as Alcatel, Cisco Systems, Lucent and Nortel. 

In addition, we supply high reliability solid-state lasers to major telecommunications companies for ultra-long-distance applications. We are also a major supplier of physical layer integrated circuits for high-speed networking applications, which prepare data for transmission across fiber networks. 

Storage Area Networking. As the volume of data that is being transmitted, processed and stored in networked environments has increased, the market for storage area network equipment, which connects computers and storage devices, has grown dramatically. The increase in data transmission speeds across networks has created a demand for high-speed and high-performance storage-to-server and server-to-server connectivity. The Fibre Channel interconnect protocol, a standard for the transfer of information between computers and storage devices defined by the American National Standards Institute, was developed to meet this growing demand. Fibre Channel supports the transfer of large amounts of data within storage area networks at speeds of one gigabit per second and greater and provides high transmission reliability. We supply a broad range of integrated circuits, fiber optic components and systems to manufacturers of storage area network systems utilizing the Fibre Channel protocol, such as Compaq, EMC Corporation, Hitachi and NEC. We are aggressively pursuing new standards in the storage networking area as they emerge. We have shown 9 12 early technology demonstrations of both the InfiniBand and IP SAN standards, and plan to have products for both technologies as the market requires them. 

Wireless Communications. Worldwide subscriber growth for wireless communications has been increasing rapidly in recent years. The Strategis Group anticipates that the worldwide market for cellular services will increase to approximately 650 million subscribers by 2002 from approximately 300 million subscribers in 1998. In addition, we supply a wide range of radio frequency and microwave integrated circuits and devices to mobile telephone manufacturers and vendors of equipment for the mobile telephone infrastructure to meet this increasing demand. We supply infrared and radio frequency devices and modules for short-range, point-to-point wireless communications to manufacturers of computers, printers and consumer electronics products, such as mobile telephones, digital cameras, personal digital assistants and pagers. 

Imaging. Increasingly, images are used to enhance the content and context of communications. Agilent's CMOS image sensors are used in high-volume digital cameras to capture images and convert them to digital files. We have produced over 15 million devices for cameras and for optical mice. Optical mice use Agilent image sensors to take approximately 1500 pictures per second and compare them sequentially to determine movement of the mouse. 

Computing We are the largest supplier to Hewlett-Packard of ASICs for printers, workstations and servers. ASICs are semiconductors that are designed for a unique, customer-specified application and typically replace a number of discrete components resulting in improved performance, lower cost and high reliability. We are also a world leader in LEDs, optocouplers, and motion control devices for a variety of industrial and commercial products. 

STRATEGY To service the needs of our customers in the communications and computer industries, the semiconductor products business pursues the following strategies: Apply our Broad Technology Base to Capture Demand for Higher-speed and Mobile Data Transmission High-speed communications solutions will increasingly require strength in analog (optoelectronic or wireless), mixed-signal and digital integrated circuit technologies. The semiconductor products business offers technology strength in all these areas to develop and produce highly integrated solutions for next generation networking, wireless and imaging systems. 

Continue to be Hewlett-Packard's Leading Supplier of ASICs We are focused on reducing the costs and improving the performance of the ASICs we provide to Hewlett-Packard by pursuing higher levels of device integration and employing advanced process technology. We have also begun to increase sales of ASICs to purchasers other than Hewlett-Packard, in areas other than workstations, servers and printers, particularly in the networking area. 

Take Advantage of Technology Partnerships We intend to continue to enter into strategic technology partnerships to gain access to intellectual property and advanced semiconductor manufacturing process technology. 

10 13 PRODUCTS Our major product areas include: Fiber Optics We market optical transceivers, transmitters and receivers for high-speed local area network applications from 10 megabits per second to one gigabit per second and higher, and wide area network applications at up to 2.5 gigabits per second. We also produce solid-state lasers. 

High-Speed Network Input-Output Circuits We produce physical layer integrated circuits for high speed network switches and routers, devices that direct network traffic. We produce Fibre Channel protocol-based integrated circuits and subsystems for storage area networks. 

Radio Frequency and Microwave Communications Devices We produce a broad family of radio frequency and microwave communications products, primarily integrated circuits for wireless communications products and infrastructure. Our products include integrated circuits, individual transistors and diodes and amplifiers used in higher speed and higher frequency applications. 

Infrared Emitters, Detectors and Transceiver Modules We produce a full line of infrared products that enable short range, point-to-point wireless communication between portable and stationary devices, including notebook personal computers, cellular phones, personal digital assistants and digital cameras. 

ASICs We provide graphics chips, core electronics chipsets that surround central processing units and microprocessors for Hewlett-Packard's workstations and servers. 

Optical Image Sensors and Optical Position Sensors Our sensor products include color and monochrome still and video camera image capture solutions and intelligent optical sensors. We also produce optical position motion control products used primarily for motion control in printers and small motors that require precise control. 

LEDs and Optocouplers We manufacture and sell a broad range of LEDs, alphanumeric displays and optocouplers. LEDs are semiconductor devices that emit light when an electrical signal is applied. Optocoupler products are devices that provide both electrical insulation, for protection, and signal isolation, to prevent distortion of data, between differing electrical environments. 

Lighting Joint Venture Pursuant to a global joint venture with Philips Electronics, we develop, manufacture and sell LEDs, modules, products and systems for a broad spectrum of lighting applications, including automotive lighting, high-brightness traffic signals, contour lighting and signs, outdoor illumination, and white LEDs for both indoor and outdoor applications. 

11 14 CUSTOMERS We sell to a broad array of customers in the communications and computing industries. We sell to original equipment manufacturers directly, as well as contract manufacturers including Celestica, Jabil Circuit, SCI Systems and Solectron. Our top customers by product line, including customers purchasing through contract manufacturers and distributors, include the following: Our semiconductor technology licensing and supply arrangements with Hewlett-Packard limit our ability to sell to other companies. Through sales of ASICs, storage area networking components, motion-control products and microprocessors, Hewlett-Packard accounted for approximately 30% of our semiconductor products revenue in fiscal year 2000, approximately 37% in fiscal year 1999, and approximately 34% in fiscal year 1998. 

SALES, MARKETING AND SUPPORT Our semiconductor sales organization consists of nearly 400 professionals, and is divided into four groups. These groups have responsibilities for large, global accounts and three regional areas: the Americas, Europe and Asia Pacific. 

We also have a direct sales team that has several years of experience in servicing our customer relationship with Hewlett-Packard. Our sales force has specialized product and service knowledge that enables it to sell specific offerings at key levels throughout a customer's organization. In addition to our direct sales force, we generate approximately 25% of our revenue through our relationships with key electronic distributors, such as Arrow Electronics, Inc. 

and Avnet, Inc. on a worldwide basis, EBV Electronik GmbH/ Wyle Electronics in Europe and North America, Future Electronics, Inc. in Europe and North America, and Ryoyo Electro Singapore PTE, Ltd. and Tokyo Electric Power Company in Japan. 

We have also recently focused a sales effort to major contract manufacturers such as Celestica, Jabil, SCI and Solectron. 

We also provide a broad range of products and applications-related information to customers and channel partners via the Internet. 

MANUFACTURING The majority of our silicon and gallium arsenide wafer fabrication is done in the United States and Singapore, while our assembly and test operations are in Malaysia, Singapore and the United Kingdom. In addition to these facilities, we utilize a network of contract manufacturers throughout Asia for semiconductor fabrication and test. 

Our manufacturing strategy has been to outsource more mature technologies while using our in-house manufacturing fabrication, assembly and test capabilities to develop new, leading edge-products. Our production facilities have developed several quality-management processes designed to increase productivity. We have developed proprietary automated test systems, particularly in optical, light-emitting diode and microwave. 

12 15 COMPETITION The markets for our semiconductor products are intensely competitive, and we expect competition to increase. Our ability to compete effectively depends on a number of factors, including: - product reliability and performance in operation; - price; - power consumption; - compliance with standards; - product size and integration; and - time to market In the fiber-optic products market, our principal competitors are Tyco, Lucent and Infineon. In the market for high-speed network components, our principal competitors are Emulex Corporation, LSI Logic Corporation, QLogic Corporation and Vitesse Semiconductor Corporation. Our principal competitors in wireless communications are Motorola, NEC and Infineon. In the market for infrared products, our principal competitors are Vishay Intertechnology, Inc. 

and IBM. We compete with companies including LSI, IBM, Mitsubishi, Motorola and NEC in the production of integrated circuits. Principal competitors in our LED businesses include Lite-on, Inc., Stanley Electronic Co., Ltd., Infineon and Toshiba. 

HEALTHCARE SOLUTIONS Our healthcare solutions business is a worldwide leader in electro-medical clinical measurement and diagnostic solutions. Our products and systems enable medical professionals to gather and analyze information in hospital intensive care units and emergency rooms, outpatient clinics, doctors' offices, patients' homes and other settings. Our products and services include patient monitoring systems, imaging systems, external defibrillators, cardiology products and related professional services and support, each aimed at helping our customers improve the quality of patient care while decreasing their costs. 

We market our products to professionals and institutions in more than 100 countries. We have sales offices in 33 countries and manufacturing sites in California, Massachusetts and Washington in the United States, China and Germany. As of October 31, 2000, the healthcare solutions business had approximately 5,000 employees worldwide. Our healthcare solutions business generated revenue of $1.4 billion in fiscal year 2000, $1.5 billion in fiscal year 1999, and $1.3 billion in fiscal year 1998. 

Agilent has recently signed an agreement with Philips to sell its healthcare solutions business unit. The deal is expected to close in the first half of 2001 after all the legal, regulatory and government requirements, and other closing conditions, have been met. At that time, the business unit will become part of Philips. Until then, the Healthcare solutions business and Philips will operate independently and there will be no changes in operations or in customer relationships. 

MARKETS The principal markets in which we participate are: - patient monitoring; - ultrasound imaging; and - external defibrillator and cardiology products. 

Patient Monitoring Patient monitoring systems continuously assess a patient's vital signs, such as heart rate, blood pressure and respiration rates, to enable very rapid decision making in emergency and critical care environments. Our patient monitoring systems are used in three major market segments: critical care, anesthesia care and neonatal care. According to Frost & Sullivan, the worldwide market for multi-functional patient monitoring 13 16 equipment totaled $5.3 billion in 1997, growing at a compound annual rate of 8.7% from 1994 to 1997. This market is forecasted to grow at a compound annual rate of 11.5% from 1998 to 2003. 

Patient monitoring equipment and services are also used in non-critical care environments, as providers seek to reduce costs. These non-critical care areas, which include non-intensive-care areas of hospitals, outpatient care facilities and patients' homes, are expected to provide significant growth opportunities for patient monitoring markets in the future. 

Ultrasound Imaging Ultrasound imaging systems enable medical professionals to view multiple parts of the human anatomy with high-resolution images that are produced non-invasively from sound waves. The ultrasound imaging equipment market includes cardiovascular, radiology, obstetrical and general imaging equipment. 

Within ultrasound imaging, our principal targeted market is cardiology ultrasound imaging. Frost & Sullivan estimates that the global market for cardiology ultrasound imaging equipment was approximately $768 million in 1998 and forecasts the cardiovascular imaging segment to grow at an annual rate of approximately 6.8% over the next five years. 

Cardiology Products Our cardiology products business includes external defibrillators, electrocardiographs and related information systems. External defibrillators are devices that deliver an electrical shock designed to restart the heart of victims of sudden cardiac arrest. Theta Corporation estimates the worldwide external defibrillator market was approximately $425 million for 1998 and forecasts a compound annual growth of 8% for the years 1998 through 2000. We also sell electrocardiography equipment, which measures and displays information about the electrical activity of the heart. 

STRATEGY Our healthcare solutions business focuses on creating and delivering new products and services for the healthcare market, establishing and maintaining a strong reputation with our customers and developing effective strategic partnerships by pursuing the following strategies: Bring New Technologies and Applications to Targeted Markets In particular, we aim to bring new technologies to the patient monitoring and imaging markets and expand our coverage in developed countries by delivering cost-effective diagnostic and therapeutic tools. We are also focused on developing new, low-cost applications of our existing products to expand our presence in smaller hospitals and less-developed countries. 

Target Medical Care Beyond the Hospital The growth in outpatient services has increased demand for products that can enable nurses, other clinicians and nonmedical professionals to provide care outside of the hospital. We are also delivering cost-effective diagnostic and therapeutic tools, which can decrease the cost of diagnosing and monitoring patients. These tools are targeted at smaller hospitals, mobile clinics and private offices. 

Increase Presence in Emerging Systems Worldwide We plan to expand our global presence by continuing to invest in the development of low-cost, reliable, high-utility, diagnostic, monitoring and therapy instruments designed to be easily supported in rural areas. We also work with international financial organizations, such as the World Bank, to arrange secured financing services for our customers in these regions. 

14 17 Take Advantage of the Rapid Adoption of Information Technology, the Internet and Industry Standards We are working with medical professionals to deploy Internet-based communication systems that link medical professionals and patients. We are also currently leading several industry-wide efforts to create and promulgate standards for communication and interoperability among disparate healthcare systems. 

Develop Point-of-Care Technologies We intend to continue to enhance our patient monitoring capabilities by developing alliances with other companies. These companies' biochemical sensors, when integrated into our monitoring platforms, enable time-sensitive measurements to be made quickly and accurately at a patient's bedside for faster diagnosis and therapeutic intervention. 

Focus on the Management and Treatment of Chronic Illnesses We have recently begun to pursue opportunities focused on the ongoing management and treatment of chronic illnesses. 

PRODUCTS Our products and services include patient monitoring, imaging systems, cardiology products and related professional services. 

Patient Monitoring Our products range from critical-care bedside monitors, fetal monitoring and remote-measurement systems to central station monitors, associated clinical decision support systems and critical-care information-management systems. Our clinical decision support and critical-care information-management systems are scalable based on department protocols, severity of patient condition and workflow requirements. Our solutions range from basic surveillance and centralized alarms to very large system configurations that provide comprehensive patient information-management support. 

Our Agilent Information Center provides advanced real-time, patient data analysis and surveillance solutions offering data at a central station. Our CareVue clinical information system captures, stores and makes available data that can be configured for comprehensive reports, and CareVue enables multiple caregivers to analyze patient data. 

Ultrasound Imaging We offer three major ultrasound platforms: SONOS 5500, SONOS 4500 and ImagePoint Hx. SONOS 5500 is a premium performance cardiovascular ultrasound system used for both research and clinical applications, while SONOS 4500 is a high-performance cardiovascular ultrasound system used primarily in the clinical environment. ImagePoint Hx is a multispecialty product used in a broad range of ultrasound applications to address the broad needs of physicians working in smaller hospitals, mobile clinics and offices. 

Our proprietary transducers enable the ultrasound system to optimize image detail and penetration without making the operator switch transducers. Our proprietary Acoustic Quantification, which automatically measures critical characteristics of the beating heart, eliminates time-consuming manual measurements. 

We have developed EnConcert, which consists of a series of software applications running on personal computer hardware. EnConcert allows clinicians to review, measure, manage and archive images, reports and patient data related to their ultrasound exams. 

Cardiology Products We develop and manufacture external defibrillators, electrocardiographs and electrocardiogram information management systems. We produce both manual and automatic external defibrillators, designed for both hospital and out-of-hospital use. Our ForeRunner automatic external defibrillator is a portable defibrillator 15 18 that is used by nonmedical professionals to deliver on-site defibrillation following a cardiac event. Our electrocardiographs monitor the characteristics of the heart's electrical activity to enable cardiology professionals to provide accurate diagnoses and deliver care for cardiac patients. 

CUSTOMERS We provide products and services to a broad range of customers in the industry. Within the last 12 months, 91% of the largest 2,000 hospitals in the United States purchased our equipment and/or services. Outpatient clinics, doctors' offices and public facilities, travel companies and entertainment providers are also a growing part of our customer base. 

A representative list of customers of our healthcare solutions business follows: SALES, MARKETING AND SUPPORT Our products and services are sold through both direct and indirect channels. We have sales offices in 33 countries and more than 2,400 direct sales and service personnel. Our sales strategy is to sell to and service our largest accounts (hospital and corporate business) directly while employing third-party distributors and manufacturer's representatives for smaller or more geographically dispersed countries. Electronic commerce is also an integral and growing element of our sales and distribution strategy. 

In select instances we have also established distribution alliances with complementary medical equipment manufacturers in order to leverage market strength or bring a broader array of solutions to our customers. 

Our professional services offerings include multivendor systems integration, training and consulting to hospitals, outpatient facilities and doctors' offices. Our technical specialists and clinical application specialists provide installation, repair and training services to preserve and maximize customer investments in our solutions. In addition, geographic response centers and remote on-line support supplement on-site services. Finally, we provide consulting, project management and technical implementation services to meet customer needs for networking and integrating our solutions. 

MANUFACTURING The healthcare solutions business has four manufacturing locations: Massachusetts and Washington in the United States, China and Germany. We selectively use suppliers to provide manufacturing capabilities outside our core competencies, such as the manufacture of printed circuit assemblies by Celestica. We typically complete the final assembly and test of our medical products and systems internally. 

16 19 COMPETITION The markets we address are highly competitive. Our competitors are diverse and offer a variety of solutions directed at various segments of our medical products and services markets. Our ability to compete effectively depends upon a number of factors, including our ability to - provide a complete set of high quality products for our customers; - offer competitive prices; - provide financing services; - provide support and training; and - innovate technologically. 

Our competitors with broad product portfolios include GE Marquette Medical Systems and Siemens Medical Systems, Inc. We also compete with other vendors in specific markets. Our major competitors in patient monitoring include GE Marquette Medical, Siemens Medical, Spacelabs Medical, Inc. and the Datex- Ohmeda division of Instrumentarium Corporation. In the imaging systems business, we compete with Acuson Corporation, Toshiba Medical Systems, Inc., GE Marquette Medical, Siemens Medical and the ATL Ultrasound, Inc. division of Philips Medical Systems International. Our competition in the external defibrillator market comes primarily from Physio Control Corporation (a subsidiary of Medtronic Inc.) and Zoll Medical Corporation. 

GOVERNMENT REGULATION The products developed and marketed by our healthcare solutions business are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA and other regulatory bodies. FDA regulations govern, among other things, the following product activities: design and development, testing, including animal and human studies, labeling, premarket clearance or approval, manufacturing, storage, advertising and promotion, and sales and distribution. 

In the United States, medical devices are classified on the basis of controls deemed necessary to ensure their safety and effectiveness. Class I devices are subject to general controls, such as labeling, premarket notification, and adherence to the FDA's Quality System Regulations, which incorporate current good manufacturing practices that are applicable to medical devices. Class II devices are subject to general and special controls. Special controls may include performance standards, postmarket surveillance, patient registries and FDA guidelines. Most class III devices are controlled through the premarket approval process to ensure their safety and effectiveness. 

Prior to commercialization, premarket notification clearance generally must be obtained for class I and II devices as well as certain class III devices for which the FDA has not called for premarket approval ("Pre-Amendent" Class III devises. For other class III devices, a premarket approval application is required and must be supported by valid scientific evidence to demonstrate their safety and effectiveness. The notification or application typically includes results of bench and laboratory tests, when appropriate, results of animal tests and clinical studies, a detailed description of the methods, facilities and controls used to manufacture the device, and proposed labeling and advertising literature. 

Most medical devices marketed by the Agilent healthcare solutions business are class II or "Pre-Amendment" class III devices, which currently require only premarket clearance. The Agilent healthcare solutions business does not market any class III device requiring premarket approval in the United States, but it may do so in the future or the FDA may require by regulation that premarket approval applications be submitted for our existing "Pre-Amendment" class III devices. 

Once clearance or approval is obtained, FDA oversight continues. We are required to demonstrate and maintain compliance with the Quality System Regulations for all our products. The FDA enforces the Quality System Regulations through periodic inspections of our manufacturing operations and those of our contract manufacturers. The Quality System Regulations relate to product design, manufacture, testing and quality 17 20 assurance, as well as to the maintenance of records and documentation. We are required to provide information to the FDA on deaths or serious injuries alleged to have been associated with the use of our medical devices, as well as on product malfunctions that could contribute to death or serious injury. The FDA also restricts the promotion of products for unapproved or off-label uses. 

If the FDA believes we are not in compliance with the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act or its regulations it can detain or seize our products, order or request a recall, seek an injunction against future violations, assess civil penalties against us, and initiate criminal proceedings against us. 

Compliance with other regulatory requirements is necessary to market our medical devices outside the United States. These regulations vary from country to country. 

CHEMICAL ANALYSIS Our chemical analysis business provides instrument systems that enable customers to identify, quantify, analyze and test the atomic, molecular, physical and biological properties of substances and products. Our chemical and life sciences analysis products and services are used by scientists, engineers and technicians working in disease and drug discovery, research and development, quality assurance, quality control and manufacturing. 

Our four main product lines are chromatography, spectroscopy, bio-instrumentation and related consumables. We also provide service and customer support for our products. 

We employed approximately 3,700 people as of October 31, 2000 in our chemical and life sciences analysis business. We have manufacturing and product development centers in China, Germany, Japan and the United States and marketing centers in Germany, the United States, and Singapore. Our chemical and life sciences analysis business generated revenue of $1.1 billion in fiscal year 2000, $1.0 billion in fiscal year 1999, and $938 million in fiscal year 1998. 

MARKETS Strategic Directions International estimates that in 1998, worldwide revenue in the analytical instrumentation market totaled approximately $15.9 billion. According to Strategic Directions International, growth of the overall analytical instrumentation market between 1998 and 2001 is expected to be approximately 8% annually. We estimate that our market represents approximately 30% of the total available analytical instrumentation market that we serve. 

Primarily, our chemical analysis business serves the following markets: - hydrocarbon processing; - environmental; and - pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical. 

Hydrocarbon Processing The hydrocarbon processing industry encompasses the natural gas, petroleum refining, petrochemical and chemical markets. We sell primarily gas chromatographs and gas chromatography-mass spectrometry products and systems into these markets. Petroleum refiners use our measurement solutions to analyze crude oil composition and perform other raw material analysis, verify and improve refining processes, and ensure the overall quality of gasoline, fuels, lubricants and other products. Our gas chromatographs are used to monitor consistent quality in the natural gas delivered to consumers and industry. 

Petrochemical and chemical producers use our products to measure and control the quality of their finished products and to verify the environmental safety of their operations. 

Environmental We develop and market analytical instrumentation for the environmental market for applications such as laboratory and field analysis and characterization of chemical pollutants in air, water, soils, solid waste, 18 21 agriculture and food products. Environmental industry customers include all levels of government, the industrial and manufacturing sectors, engineering and consulting companies, commercial testing laboratories, colleges and universities. We believe there will be more demand for environmental instrumentation in the Asia-Pacific, Latin America and Eastern Europe regions, as these regions implement new and stricter environmental regulations. 

Pharmaceutical and Biopharmaceutical Our analytical and life sciences-instrument solutions are used by pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical companies in every phase of the drug development process. This includes research into the basic causes of disease, identification and development of new drugs, obtaining regulatory approval, manufacturing and distribution. Strategic Directions International estimates that these companies will spend approximately $3.8 billion on analytical instrumentation in 2002. 

STRATEGY In order to maintain our leading position in the analytical instrumentation market, our strategy is as follows: Target high-growth opportunities in the pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical markets In fiscal year 2000, we formed a new Life Sciences Business Unit to address opportunities in the pharmaceutical market. Through our strategic relationship with Caliper Technologies, we have developed instrumentation that enables chemical analysis procedures to be performed within the Caliper LabChip device. 

We have recently begun marketing the LabChip device, which uses a technology called microfluidics to manipulate minute quantities of various fluids. 

We will continue to focus resources on the development of bio-instrumentation that increases understanding of the genetic cause of diseases in order to speed the development and increase the efficacy of new drugs. 

Focus on growth opportunities in current markets To address emerging markets in the Asia-Pacific, Latin America and Eastern Europe regions, we are broadening our worldwide distribution capabilities and developing less complex instrumentation with lower prices. Additionally, in order to differentiate our product offerings and increase our market share in developed markets, we intend to continue to grow our portfolio of services and consumable products, enabling us to offer our customers more complete solutions. 

Finally, we continue to develop gas chromatography and mass spectroscopy products that are smaller and more portable to meet increasing demand for use of these instruments outside of centralized laboratories. 

Bring new products and technologies to market faster We seek to bring new products and technologies to market both through internal development and the strategic acquisition of technologies from third parties. We are expanding our programs to offer customers early access to products under development to ensure that these products are meeting customer needs. In addition, our development of modular hardware and software platforms allows us to bring new generations of products to market faster. 

In addition to our internal efforts, we consider acquisitions to complement our current products, solutions and technologies and to accelerate our entry into strategic markets. 

Leverage strategic relationships and alliances We intend to build strategic relationships to enable us to develop products and services that complement existing technologies and products in our target markets. For example, through our relationship with Caliper Technologies, we are conducting joint research and development in microfluidics. 

19 22 In addition, through our strategic alliances, we develop instruments that work with our partners' products, enabling us to offer our customers a broader range of products and solutions. 

PRODUCTS A key factor in our target markets is the need for new products that increase productivity of the end customer. Our chemical and life sciences analysis products, systems and services enable our customers to analyze water, air and soil for monitoring and remediation; to understand the properties of natural and man-made gases, liquids and chemically-based products; and to advance knowledge of the genetic basis of disease and enable the development, testing and use of new drugs. Our four main product lines, chromatography, spectroscopy, bio-instrumentation and related consumables, are described below. 

Gas Chromatography We produce gas chromatography systems, both portable and otherwise. Gas chromatographs are used to separate molecules of a gaseous mixture to determine the quantity and identity of the molecules present. A gas chromatograph can analyze gas samples as well as solids and liquids that can be converted to a gaseous state. Most gas chromatographs have the approximate size and appearance of a large microwave oven. 

Our instruments are used in laboratories involved in research and development, quality assurance, quality control and routine testing. Our products are used to test the quality and safety of food, air and water; to develop cleaner-burning fuels and more effective pharmaceuticals; and to test for alcohol in blood, drugs in urine or explosive residues in crime scene evidence. 

Liquid Chromatography Liquid chromatographs are used to separate molecules of a liquid mixture to determine the quantity and identity of the molecules present. These instruments are modular in construction and can be configured to form instruments that perform specific analyses. Each module is about the size of a home videocassette recorder. 

High-performance liquid chromatographs are an essential tool in the pharmaceutical industry for basic research, drug development and clinical trials of new drugs. Other industry groups that utilize high-performance liquid chromatographs include chemical development and manufacturing, industry and government testing laboratories for safety, quality and nutritional content of foods and beverages, athlete monitoring for illegal drug use and environmental monitoring. 

Mass Spectroscopy Mass spectroscopy systems break molecules into their component parts and analyze these parts. Our mass spectrometers range in size from that of a small microwave oven to that of a medium-sized refrigerator. 

Mass spectroscopy systems are typically used in combination with gas or liquid chromatographs in the pharmaceutical, semiconductor and environmental industries. The combined instruments are used to study and refine the chemical structure of new drugs, to determine the presence of impurities in semiconductors as they are manufactured, or to research the presence of heavy metals and other unwanted substances in soil and water. 

Bio-Instrumentation In December 1999 we announced the launch of a DNA microarray program for the life sciences that incorporates technologies from both Rosetta Inpharmatics and OGT, among others. This program is intended to enable researchers to access gene expression information. In addition, our GeneArray system allows a researcher to use GeneChip arrays designed by Affymetrix to enable high-speed detection and characterization of large amounts of genetic information. 

20 23 The new Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer instrument systems that we have developed through our relationship with Caliper Technologies integrate a large number of chemical-analysis procedures onto a single chip. We develop and distribute instrumentation that extracts and analyzes data from the microchip developed by Caliper Technologies, using advanced microfluidics technology. Using miniature, integrated chemical-processing systems etched into glass, silicon, quartz or plastic, the microchip allows the steps customarily performed in conventional instruments to be done using minute quantities of costly liquids in a fraction of the usual time. 

Consumables We also offer consumable products, including chromatograph columns, analytical reagents and other accessories and supplies used by our customers during the analytical experimentation process. Columns are metal or glass tubes containing various substances that are inserted into chromatographs to assist in the process of separating compounds into their constituent parts. Reagents are chemicals used to perform analysis on the resulting constituent parts. Other accessories and supplies we provide range from rubber rings to syringes to safety glasses. 

Our offerings include both generic consumables, where we seek to distinguish our products on price, selection and customer loyalty, and proprietary consumables developed by us, where we offer exclusive technology, performance and functionality. 

CUSTOMERS We sell our products and services to a broad array of customers in each of the markets we serve. Our top customers by market segment are the following: SALES, MARKETING AND SUPPORT Our sales and support delivery channels are aligned by our key markets to maximize market coverage and to optimize selling and support delivery efficiency. We market our products to our customers through our direct sales force, value-added resellers, manufacturers' representatives and distributors. 

We use our direct sales force to market our products to all our pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical accounts, large and medium size hydrocarbon processing customers and all environmental accounts. We supplement our direct sales force with sales agents to provide broader geographic coverage and to cover smaller accounts. We also have an active value-added reseller program to augment our ability to provide more complete solutions to our customers. We sell our consumable products through distributors, telesales and electronic commerce. 

We offer a wide range of startup, operational, educational and compliance support services for our chemical analysis measurement and data handling systems. We deliver our support services to customers in a variety of ways, including on-site assistance, return to us for repair or exchange, telephone support and self diagnostic services provided over the Internet. Our support services limit the amount of time an instrument is out of service, provide increased system productivity, extend the instrument life and offer fast problem 21 24 resolution. We also offer special industry-focused service bundles that are designed to meet the specific needs of hydrocarbon processing, environmental, pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical customers to keep instruments fully operational and compliant with the respective industry requirements. 

MANUFACTURING Our manufacturing strategy supports our diverse product range and customer-centric focus. We assemble highly configurable products to individual customer orders and make standard products to stock. We employ advanced manufacturing techniques and supply chain management systems to reduce costs and manufacturing cycle times. We selectively use partners to provide manufacturing capabilities outside our core competencies, such as the manufacture of printed circuit assemblies and the delivery of shipment logistics. We have manufacturing facilities in California and Delaware in the United States, China, Germany and Japan. 

COMPETITION The markets for analytical instruments in which we compete are characterized by evolving industry standards and intense competition. Our principal competitors include Perkin Elmer Corp., Applied Biosystems, Inc., Shimadzu Corporation, Thermo Electron, Inc. and Waters. 

Our ability to compete effectively depends upon a number of factors including our ability to: - produce high-quality and reliable products; - introduce new technologies and products in a timely manner; - provide favorable overall cost of ownership; and - provide product and service solutions that complement and support our main product lines. 

GOVERNMENT REGULATION The chemical analysis product and related consumables marketed by our chemical and life sciences analysis business are subject to regulation in the United States by the Environmental Protection Agency under the Toxic Substances Control Act, and by government agencies in other countries under similar laws. 

The Toxic Substances Control Act regulations govern, among other things, the testing, manufacture, processing and distribution of chemicals, the testing of regulated chemicals for their effects on human health and safety and import and export of chemicals. The act prohibits persons from manufacturing any chemical in the United States that has not been reviewed by Environmental Protection Agency for its effect on health and safety, and placed on an Environmental Protection Agency inventory of chemical substances. In addition, our chemical analysis products are used in the drug design and production processes to test compliance with the Toxic Substances Control Act, the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act and similar regulations. Therefore, we must continually adapt our chemical analysis products to changing regulations. If we fail to comply with the notification, record-keeping and other requirements in the manufacture or distribution of our products, the Environmental Protection Agency can obtain an order from a court that would prohibit the further distribution or marketing of a product that contains a chemical that is out of compliance or we could face fines, civil penalties or criminal prosecution. 

BACKLOG Agilent believes that backlog is not a meaningful indicator of future business prospects due to the large volume of products delivered from our shelf inventories, the shortening of product life cycles and the relative portion of net revenue related to our service and support businesses. Therefore, we believe that backlog information is not material to an understanding of our business. 

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT We sell our products in several industries that are characterized by rapid technology changes, frequent new product and service introductions and evolving industry standards. Without the timely introduction of new 22 25 products, services and enhancements, our products and services are likely to become technologically obsolete over time, in which case revenue and operating results would suffer. There can be no assurance that such new products and services, if and when introduced, will achieve market acceptance. After the products and services are developed, we must quickly manufacture and deliver such products and services in sufficient volumes at acceptable costs to meet demand. 

Research and development expenditures were $1,258 million in fiscal year 2000, $997 million in fiscal year 1999, and $948 million in fiscal year 1998. We anticipate that we will continue to have significant research and development expenditures in order to maintain our competitive position with a continuing flow of innovative, high-quality products and services. 

INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY Our general policy has been to seek patent and other intellectual property protection for those inventions and improvements likely to be incorporated into our products and services or to give us a competitive advantage. While we believe that our patents and applications have value, in general no single patent is in itself essential. In addition, we cannot assure you that any of our proprietary rights will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, or that our rights will provide significant competitive advantages. 

INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS Our net revenue originating outside the United States, as a percentage of our total net revenue, was approximately 55.8% in fiscal year 2000, 55.2% in fiscal year 1999, and 54.4% in fiscal year 1998, the majority of which was from customers other than foreign governments. Approximately 19% of our international revenue in the last three years was derived from Japan. 

Most of our sales in international markets are made by foreign sales subsidiaries. In countries with low sales volumes, sales are made through various representatives and distributors. However, we make certain sales in international markets directly from the United States. 

Our international business is subject to risks customarily encountered in foreign operations, including changes in a specific country's or region's political or economic conditions, trade protection measures, import or export licensing requirements, the overlap of different tax structures, unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations, differing labor regulations and differing protection of intellectual property. We are also exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk inherent in our sales commitments, anticipated sales and assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the United States dollar and may also become subject to interest rate risk inherent in any debt, investment and finance receivable portfolios we incur. 

We do a portion of our businesses in Korea and Japan, which have been subject to increased economic instability in recent years. The recurrence of weakness in these economies or weakness in other international economies could have a significant negative effect on our future operating results. However, we believe that our international diversification provides stability to our worldwide operations and reduces the impact on us of adverse economic changes in any single country. Financial information about our international operations is contained in Note 18, "Segment Information," of the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this report. 

MATERIALS Our manufacturing operations employ a wide variety of semiconductors, electromechanical components and assemblies, and raw materials such as plastic resins and sheet metal. We believe that the materials and supplies necessary for our manufacturing operations are presently available in the quantities required. 

We purchase materials, supplies and product subassemblies from a substantial number of vendors. For many of our products, we have existing alternate sources of supply, or such sources are readily available. In certain instances, however, we enter into non-cancelable purchase commitments with, or make advance payments to, certain suppliers to ensure supply. Portions of our manufacturing operations are dependent on the ability of 23 26 suppliers to deliver quality components, subassemblies and completed products in time to meet critical manufacturing and distribution schedules. The failure of suppliers to deliver these components, subassemblies and products in a timely manner may adversely affect our operating results until alternate sources could be developed. In addition, we periodically experience constrained supply of certain component parts in some product lines as a result of strong demand in the industry for those parts. Such constraints, if persistent, may adversely affect our operating results. However, we believe that alternate suppliers or design solutions could be arranged within a reasonable time so that material long-term adverse impacts would be minimized. 

ENVIRONMENTAL Our research and development, manufacturing and distribution operations involve the use of hazardous substances and are regulated under international, federal, state and local laws governing health and safety and the environment. 

We apply strict standards for protection of the environment and worker health and safety to sites inside and outside the United States, even if not subject to regulation imposed by foreign governments. We believe that our properties and operations at our facilities comply in all material respects with applicable environmental laws; however, the risk of environmental liabilities cannot be completely eliminated and there can be no assurance that the application of environmental and health and safety laws to our Company may not require our Company to incur significant expenditures. We are also regulated under a number of international, federal, state and local laws regarding recycling, product packaging and product content requirements. These laws are gradually becoming more stringent and may in the future cause us to incur significant expenditures. 

Some of our operations are located on properties that are known to have subsurface contamination that is undergoing remediation by Hewlett-Packard. 

Hewlett-Packard has agreed to retain the liability for the contamination, perform the required remediation and indemnify us with respect to claims arising out of the contamination. The determination of the existence and cost of any additional contamination caused by us could involve costly and time-consuming negotiations and litigation. While we expect that Hewlett-Packard will meet its remediation and indemnification obligations in this regard, there can be no guarantee that it will do so. Under our agreement with Hewlett-Packard, Hewlett-Packard will have access to these properties to perform the remediation. 

Hewlett-Packard has agreed to minimize interference with on-site operations at those properties during the course of the remediation, but there can be no guarantee that our operations will not be interrupted or that we will not be required to incur unreimbursed costs associated with the remediation. 

Remediation could also harm on-site operations and the future use and value of the properties. 

In addition, some of these properties are undergoing remediation by Hewlett-Packard under an order of an agency of the state in which the property is located. Although Hewlett-Packard has agreed to indemnify us with respect to that subsurface contamination, it is possible that one or more of the governmental agencies will require us to be named on any of these orders. The naming of our Company will not affect Hewlett-Packard's obligation to indemnify us with regard to these matters. 

We are liable and are indemnifying Hewlett-Packard for any contamination found at all facilities transferred to us by Hewlett-Packard excluding the properties undergoing remediation. In addition, we are indemnifying Hewlett-Packard for any liability associated with past non-compliance with environmental laws regulating ongoing operations at all properties transferred to us by Hewlett-Packard, as well as at sold or discontinued businesses that related to our businesses. While we are not aware of any material liabilities associated with such indemnified matters, there is no guarantee that such contamination or regulatory non-compliance does not exist, and will not expose us to material liability in the future. 

We are being indemnified by Hewlett-Packard with respect to all environmental liabilities for which Hewlett-Packard accrued a reserve and we are not aware of any material and probable environmental liabilities being assumed by us which are not subject to the indemnity. 

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT The names of our executive officers, and their ages, titles and biographies as of December 26, 2000, appear below. All officers are elected for one-year terms. 

24 27 EXECUTIVE OFFICERS: Edward W. Barnholt, 57, Mr. Barnholt has served as our President and Chief Executive Officer and as a director since May 1999. Before being named our Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Barnholt served as General Manager of Hewlett-Packard's Measurement Organization from 1998 to 1999, which included Hewlett-Packard's Electronic Instruments Group, the Microwave and Communications Group, the Communications Test Solutions Group, the Automated Test Group, the Chemical Analysis Group, the Components Group and the Medical Products Group. From 1990 to 1998, he served as General Manager of Hewlett-Packard's Test and Measurement Organization. He was elected a Senior Vice President of Hewlett-Packard in 1993 and an Executive Vice President in 1996. He is a director of KLA-Tencor Corporation. 

Byron Anderson, 57, has served as our Senior Vice President, Electronic Products and Solutions since August 1999. Prior to assuming that position, Mr. 

Anderson served as a vice president of Hewlett-Packard since November 1995 and General Manager of the Microwave and Communications Group since September 1997. 

In January 1991, Mr. Anderson was named General Manager of Hewlett-Packard's Communications Test Business Unit, which became the Test Solutions Group in 1994. 

Alain Couder, 54, Mr. Couder has served as our Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer since February 2000. Prior to assuming this position, Mr. Couder served as President, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer at Packard Bell NEC from 1998 to 2000. Prior to joining Packard Bell NEC, Mr. Couder held several management positions from 1991 through 1998, including Chief Operating Officer in 1997 with Groupe Bull. From 1984 to 1991, Mr. Couder was a General Manager in the computer business at Hewlett-Packard Company in the United States and France. 

William R. Hahn, 49, has served as our Senior Vice President, Communications and Marketing since August 1999. Since October 1997, Mr. Hahn served as the Sector Controller of Hewlett-Packard's Measurement Organization. 

From September 1995 to October 1997, he served as Operations Manager for Hewlett-Packard's interactive broadband program. From May 1993 to September 1995, Mr. Hahn served as Vice President of Finance and Manufacturing and Chief Financial Officer at Aspect Communications. 

Jean M. Halloran, 48, has served as our Senior Vice President, Human Resources since August 1999. Since 1997, Ms. Halloran served as Director of Corporate Education and Development for Hewlett-Packard. Prior to assuming this position, from 1993 to 1997, Ms. Halloran acted as personnel manager for Hewlett-Packard's Measurement Systems Organization. From 1990 to 1993, she acted as group Personnel Manager for Hewlett-Packard's Medical Products Group. Ms. 

Halloran joined Hewlett-Packard in 1980 in the Medical Products Group, where she held a variety of positions in human resources, manufacturing and strategic planning. 

Dorothy D. Hayes, 50, has served as our Vice President and Controller since August 1999. Prior to assuming that position, since October 1989, Ms. Hayes held a number of positions at Hewlett-Packard. She served as Transition General Manager from March to July 1999, Director of Internal Audit from July 1997 to June 1999, Measurement Systems Organization Controller from February 1994 to July 1997, Components Group Controller from September 1993 to February 1996 and Corporate Financial Reporting Manager from October 1989 to September 1993. 

Richard D. Kniss, 60, has served as our Senior Vice President, Chemical Analysis Group since August 1999. Prior to assuming that position, since May 1995, Mr. Kniss was General Manager of Hewlett-Packard's Chemical Analysis Group and was named a Vice President of Hewlett-Packard in June 1997. He served as General Manager of the Optical Communication Division from 1984 to 1995. 

D. Craig Nordlund, 51, was named our Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary in May 1999 and serves as an officer or director for a variety of Agilent subsidiaries. Mr. Nordlund served as Associate General Counsel and Secretary of Hewlett-Packard Company from 1987 to 1999. He is the immediate past Chairman of the National American Society of Corporate Secretaries organization and serves on the boards of the American Corporate Counsel Association, the American Society of Corporate Secretaries, and the HP Employees Federal Credit Union. 

25 28 Stephen H. Rusckowski, 43, has served as our Senior Vice President, Healthcare Solutions since October 1999. Prior to assuming that position, Mr. 

Rusckowski held a number of positions at Hewlett-Packard. He served as General Manager of the Cardiology Products Division from 1997 to 1999, General Manager of the Healthcare Information Management Division from 1996 to 1997 and General Manager of the Clinical Information Systems Division from 1994 to 1995. Mr. 

Rusckowski joined Hewlett-Packard in 1984. 

Thomas A. Saponas, 51, has served as our Senior Vice President and Chief Technology Officer since August 1999. Prior to being named Chief Technology Officer, from June 1998 to April 1999, Mr. Saponas was Vice President and General Manager of Hewlett-Packard's Electronic Instruments Group. Mr. Saponas has held a number of positions since the time he joined Hewlett-Packard. Mr. 

Saponas served as General Manager of the Lake Stevens Division from August 1997 to June 1998 and General Manager of the Colorado Springs Division from August 1989 to August 1997. In 1986, he was a White House Fellow in Washington, D.C. 

John E. Scruggs, 59, has served as our Senior Vice President, Automated Test since August 1999. Prior to assuming that position, since January 1992, Mr. 

Scruggs was General Manager of the Automated Test Group of Hewlett-Packard within the Test and Measurement Organization. He was elected a Vice President of Hewlett-Packard in November 1996. 

William P. Sullivan, 51, has served as our Senior Vice President, Semiconductor Products since August 1999. Prior to assuming that position, since February 1998, he served as Vice President and General Manager of Hewlett-Packard's Components Group. In 1997, Mr. Sullivan became General Manager of the Communication Semiconductor Solutions Division. From 1995 to 1997, he was General Manager of the Optical Communication Division. From April 1991 to February 1995, Mr. Sullivan served as Research and Development Manager for the Optical Communication Division. 

Robert R. Walker, 50, has served as our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since May 2000, and as our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since May 1999. During 1997 and 1998, Mr. Walker served as Vice President and General Manager of Hewlett-Packard's Professional Services Business Unit. From 1993 to 1997, he led Hewlett-Packard's information systems function. He became Chief Information Officer in 1995 and served in that position until 1997. Mr. Walker was named a Vice President of Hewlett-Packard in 1995. From 1975 to 1993, Mr. Walker held a variety of financial positions in Hewlett-Packard. 

Thomas White, 43, has served as our Senior Vice President, Communications Solutions since August 1999. From 1997 to August 1999, Mr. White served as Vice President and General Manager of the Communications Solutions Group of Hewlett-Packard. From 1996 to 1997, he served as General Manager of the Computer Peripherals Bristol Division and, in 1994, he served as General Manager for the Telecommunications Systems Division, South Queensferry, Scotland. 
