http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1090872/000089161802005622/f86150e10vk.htm
http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1090872/000089161802005622/f86150e10vk.htm
1.181e+12
A
2002-10-31
10-K
A_2002-10-31_10-K.txt

Item 1. 
Business Overview Agilent Technologies, Inc. ( we , Agilent or the Company ), incorporated in Delaware in May 1999, is a global diversified technology company that provides enabling solutions to markets within the communications, electronics, life sciences and chemical analysis industries. We have three primary businesses: Prior to our initial public offering of 15.9 percent of our stock in November 1999, we were a wholly-owned subsidiary of Hewlett-Packard Company ( Hewlett-Packard ). Hewlett-Packard distributed the remaining 84.1 percent of our stock to its stockholders on June 2, 2000 in the form of a stock dividend. 
Our test and measurement and semiconductor businesses share focus on growth opportunities in the communications and electronics sector, while our life sciences and chemical analysis business focuses on growth opportunities in life sciences, as well as chemical analysis in the environmental, chemical, food and petrochemical markets. 
We sell our products primarily through our direct sales force, but we also utilize distributors, resellers, telesales and electronic commerce. Of our total net revenue of $6.0 billion in the fiscal year ended October 31, 2002, we generated 39 percent in the United States ( U.S. ) and 61 percent internationally. As of October 31, 2002, we employed approximately 36,000 people worldwide. We have major research and development ( R&D ) and manufacturing sites in California, Colorado, Delaware and Washington in the U.S. and in China, Germany, Japan, Malaysia, Singapore and the United Kingdom. 
2 Our net revenue by business segment for each of the years ending October 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000 was: More financial information about the business segments is contained in Note 20, Segment Information, of the consolidated financial statements included in Item 15 of this report. Hewlett-Packard accounted for approximately 8 percent of our total net revenue in the fiscal year ended October 31, 2002, 7 percent in fiscal year 2001 and 7 percent in fiscal year 2000. 
Test and Measurement Our test and measurement business provides standard and customized solutions that are used in the design, development, manufacture, installation, deployment and operation of electronic equipment and systems and communications networks and services. These solutions include test and measurement instruments and systems, automated test equipment, communications network monitoring, management, and optimization tools and software design tools and associated services. 
Our test and measurement business employed approximately 18,000 people as of October 31, 2002. We serve customers in more than 110 countries and sell our products primarily through our direct sales force, as well as through resellers, distributors, telesales and electronic commerce. Our products are complemented by service and support offerings such as consulting, training, local solutions integration, and instrument calibration and repair. Our test and measurement business generated $3.3 billion in revenue in fiscal 2002, $5.4 billion in revenue in fiscal 2001 and $6.1 billion in revenue in fiscal 2000. 
Test and Measurement Markets The markets for our test and measurement products comprise three major customer groups: Communications Test Network equipment manufacturers provide products to facilitate the transmission of voice and data traffic. This transmission may be in various forms, such as electronic signals over copper wire, optical signals over fiber cables and radio frequency ( RF ) or microwave signals. The customers of the network equipment manufacturers are the communications service providers that deploy and operate the networks and services. These service providers require network equipment that enables their networks and services to operate at increasingly faster speeds while providing rapidly expanding capacity and superior reliability. To meet these demands, network component and equipment manufacturers require test and measurement instruments, systems and solutions for the development, production and installation of each new network technology. 
Communications and Internet service providers also require a range of sophisticated test instruments and systems to evaluate network performance and to identify any sources of communications failure. Additionally, these customers require advanced software and systems, known as operations support systems, to monitor and manage the network infrastructure and services on a 3 continuous, proactive basis to achieve either regulated or customer-specified service levels. Real-time monitoring of the network infrastructure also enables the implementation of additional services, such as fraud detection, which customers increasingly require of service providers. In addition, accurate monitoring enables service providers to bill more precisely for different types of network traffic. 
The market for cellular mobility has increased dramatically in recent years as the levels of wireless penetration in developed countries have grown rapidly. Many emerging economies have decided to build wireless communications infrastructure to meet their nations needs for telephony, rather than invest in expensive wire-based infrastructure. To develop cellular telephone equipment, manufacturers require electronic design automation software and test instruments and systems for the development of high-frequency communications circuits, devices and systems. Cellular equipment manufacturers also require advanced, high-frequency test instruments and systems to develop, manufacture and deploy cellular base stations for these wireless networks. In addition, the rapid growth of the cellular handset market has created a new market segment for automated test equipment to test cellular handsets on the factory floor. An emerging market for advanced R&D verification solutions for 2.5G and 3G network deployment is expanding as the demand for complex wireless data networks increases. Further, as new standards evolve in the wireless industry, new test and measurement equipment and systems have to be developed to enable testing of the new standards in the research, design and development and later in the manufacturing and deployment phases. An example of this is wireless fidelity ( Wi-Fi ), also called 802.11, for wireless local area networking. 
We believe that in the last several years, producers of networking communications equipment have increased their use of contract manufacturers. Contract manufacturers require test solutions that are particularly well-suited for faster production and flexible for use in different applications. Recently, mobile phone and appliance producers have also begun to increase their use of contract manufacturers and reference design platforms, including using contract manufacturers for functional test. This requires specialized test products and services to address the particular needs of these high-frequency products. 
General Purpose Test The electronics industry designs, develops and manufactures a wide range of products, including products produced in high volumes, such as computers, computer peripherals, electronic components, printed circuit assemblies, consumer electronics, enterprise servers, storage networks and communications devices including personal digital assistants. These components and printed circuit assemblies may be designed, developed and manufactured by electronic components companies, by original equipment manufacturers or by third-party contract manufacturers. For the development and timely commercialization of new technologies, original equipment manufacturers require state-of-the-art test instruments, systems and software design tools in order to design the products for efficient and cost-effective manufacturing and validate product performance in a variety of configurations and environments. 
High volume manufacturers of electronics products, such as printed circuit board assemblies, require sophisticated automated test equipment to operate and perform highly accurate tests at speeds and volumes matching those of the production line. This equipment includes in-circuit testing systems, automated x-ray inspection systems and automated optical inspection systems, all of which examine the printed circuit assemblies for manufacturing defects. Manufacturers are also beginning to demand automated functional test systems, which test an electronic device as if it were in its final environment. 
Electronics manufacturing also requires standardized test instruments, system components and complete solutions. Aerospace and defense are important markets for standardized electronic equipment because of the high electronic content of advanced defense systems and defense-related 4 communications and surveillance equipment. We believe that defense purchasers continue to shift from specialized test equipment to Commercial Off-the-Shelf ( COTS ) test products and systems. They require solutions that optimize asset utilization and effective Technology Lifecycle Management ( TLM ). 
Semiconductor Test Electronic Design Automation ( EDA ) tools are used by integrated circuit ( IC ) designers in the earliest stages of design. These software tools are used to analyze and predict circuit and system performance before fabrication. EDA tools are also important as IC designers start to build and test prototypes. Linking between EDA software and test equipment allows customers, including IC designers and test engineers, to verify the designs and compare and combine the virtual simulations with the actual measurements. 
Semiconductor test systems are used by semiconductor designers, semiconductor manufacturers and electronic component manufacturers in the design, manufacture and testing of a wide variety of semiconductor products, including logic, memory, mixed analog and digital signal, RF, microwave and system-on-a-chip integrated circuits. Semiconductor test systems are sold to semiconductor manufacturers and assembly and test subcontractors to the semiconductor industry. 
Demand for automated test equipment is driven primarily by the increased volume of semiconductor devices produced. Advances in semiconductor technology are also increasing demand for semiconductor test equipment. The development of increasingly faster and more complex semiconductor devices stimulates demand for testers capable of evaluating these high-speed devices. In addition, the continuing integration of functions, such as microprocessor, logic, analog, RF and logic, application specific integrated circuits ( ASICs ), memory, on a single integrated circuit has created a new category of device called system-on-a-chip ( SOC ). These devices require a new category of sophisticated and flexible automated test equipment. 
Our product strategy in this market area is to develop test solutions on a single system architecture and then deliver, over time, enhancements to that architecture that extend its test capabilities. In this way, we can provide a system at the lowest possible cost because many system components are common to every system; a customer s application determines the specific configuration required, and the lowest-price component capable of the job can be purchased. For example, it is possible to build a 93000 SOC Series system that can test DVD devices, with mixed-signal test modules and very modest digital test speeds, or to build a system that can handle the highest digital requirements of gigabit Ethernet devices, or to build a system with any combination of these capabilities. We have pursued this strategy on our semiconductor test systems since 1999, and this concept is now well accepted by the marketplace, which may give Agilent a significant competitive lead. 
Agilent supplies test systems used for several different purposes in the semiconductor manufacturing process, including wafer-level parametric testing, wafer-sort for memory test, package-level functional test, and package inspection. 
Test and Measurement Strategy Our test and measurement business pursues the following strategies to extend our global leadership position as the communications and electronics industries shift to new business models and value chains. 
Address the Needs of the Wireless and Internet Communications Market Our greatest focus is on providing product leadership and application-focused solutions to markets where wireless, Internet and computing technologies are converging. We have targeted our test and measurement products and services to enable our customers in this segment to bring their 5 new technologies to market and reduce ongoing cost of manufacturing in response to end market dynamics. 
Identify Customers Business and Technology Needs, Then Leverage Across the Value Chain We address the business and technology needs of players across the wireless and Internet communications value chain, from component manufacturers, network equipment manufacturers, and contract and design manufacturers to content providers, operators and service providers. A key success factor for this strategy is the development of technologies and platforms that can be reused and leveraged, enabling us to deploy new solutions and systems faster. 
Introduce Emerging Test Technologies to Accelerate Customer Progress Our product strategy is to introduce products and technologies that meet the business needs of our customers. Such products could give us a market advantage by placing us in the next generation of technology beyond what our competitors can offer. 
Satisfy Customers Through Operational Excellence A key component of our strategy is to help the customer achieve a competitive advantage through operational excellence in three areas: sales and support experience, whether contact is via the web, email, by telephone or in person; global manufacturing and supply chain management so that customers will receive high-quality products, when they need them; and product generation. 
Focus on Leading Edge Customers By engaging in collaborative, co-development relationships with wireless communications and Internet and computer leaders such as Nokia, Ericsson, Intel , Motorola and IBM, component manufacturers such as Murata, contract manufacturers such as Solectron, Flextronics International and Sanmina-SCI Systems and service providers such as AT&T Wireless, Verizon Wireless, China Unicom and Vodafone, we are developing solutions that support next generation technologies and enable these leaders to maximize their performance and continue to lead their industries. 
Build a New Global Capability in Solutions, Systems and Services Our strategy is to apply the technologies, platforms and knowledge we acquire from growing our core product categories into application-focused solutions, world-class systems and high-value services. These programs should increase our growth potential by building on and strengthening our customer relationships and by creating a services-based annuity stream that offsets capital equipment cycles. 
Test and Measurement Products Our test and measurement business designs, develops and manufactures test and design products that range from single-unit electronic measurement devices priced under $1,000 to large scale integrated-circuit test solutions priced at $1 million and higher. 
Communications Equipment Test Solutions We provide test solutions for fiber optic, broadband and data networks, wireless communications and microwave networks and products. 
Fiber Optics. 
Our products include optical signal and spectrum analysis instruments used by the industry s leading equipment manufacturers to develop and manufacture reliable optical components. Our products also include network analyzers and high-speed bit-error rate testers that measure key transmission properties of high-speed optical and electrical signals. 
6 Broadband and Data Networks. 
Our Internet Advisor product line helps to troubleshoot high-speed local area networks, wide area networks and asynchronous transfer mode networks. We also provide cable television test equipment. 
Wireless Communications and Microwave. 
Our RF and microwave test instruments and our EDA software tools assist in the design and production of cellular handsets and base stations, as well as satellite and aerospace defense systems. Examples of our wireless communications products include specialized versions of RF and microwave network analyzers, spectrum analyzers and signal sources, mobile testers, circuit simulation tools, and system simulation tools. 
Communications Service Providers Installation, Maintenance and Operations Support Solutions. 
Our solutions for installation test enable service providers to install, commission, and activate networks and services more quickly. For example, our 10-Gigabit Field Transmission Test Set enables technicians to test 192 fiber optic channels simultaneously. Also, our standards-based unification platform allows simplification of operation support and systems by reducing the software integration costs of such systems. 
We offer a number of industry-proven monitoring systems such as AcceSS7 for Signaling System 7 ( SS7 ) networks, AccessFIBRE, for fiber optic networks, NGN Analysis System for next-generation, mixed circuit- and packet-switched networks, and Firehunter for monitoring service level agreements by Internet service providers. We also market benchtop and handheld measurement devices such as lightwave multimeters, power meters and optical sources. 
General Purpose Test Solutions General Purpose Instruments. 
General purpose instruments are used principally by engineers in R&D laboratories, manufacturing, calibration and service for measuring voltage, current, frequency, signal pulse width and other standard electronics measurements. Examples of general purpose instruments include spectrum analyzers, network analyzers, signal generators, digitizing oscilloscopes, voltmeters and multimeters, frequency counters, bench and system power supplies, and function generators and waveform synthesizers. 
Modular Instruments and Test Software. 
Our modular instruments and test software, including instruments incorporating the VXI bus and modular measurement system software, is used to dynamically configure and reconfigure test systems for designers and manufacturers of electronic devices. 
Data Acquisition and Control Devices. 
Data acquisition and control products include digital-to-analog converters that are attached to sensors to measure a wide range of physical data such as temperature, airplane wing strain and vibrations in cars, jet engines and power generation equipment. 
Digital Design Products. 
These systems range from simple digital control circuits to complex, high-speed servers incorporating the latest microprocessor technology. Our digital design products include high performance oscilloscopes, logic analyzers, logic-signal sources and data generators. 
Automated Optical Inspection. 
Our automated optical inspection line of products enables automated visual inspection of printed circuit assemblies. These systems are able to locate, with a high degree of repeatability and reliability, misplaced and misaligned parts, gross solder defects and other process faults without the need for a human inspector. 
Automated X-ray Inspection. 
Our leading x-ray inspection products provide a three-dimensional scan of printed circuit board assemblies to identify and isolate quality defects caused by the manufacturing process. Our products can look through a device to identify structural defects in soldering that are not identified by visual inspection and that may not be detected with in-circuit testing. 
7 Automated In-Circuit Testing. 
Our leading in-circuit testers use a probe fixture that makes electrical contact with the circuit board. These systems make electrical measurements that identify quality defects such as bad and incorrect parts that affect electrical performance, and allow repair of the defects while it is still relatively inexpensive to make the diagnosis and repair. 
Intelligent Test. 
Our AwareTest software enables customers to design test processes that avoid unnecessary test duplication. For example, an in-circuit test system receives information about the faults that have already been detected by an x-ray inspection system and does not repeat the test of that circuit. 
Semiconductor Automated Test Equipment We produce semiconductor test equipment to perform electrical functional testing of the operation of logic, memory, mixed analog and digital signal, RF, microwave and SOC integrated circuits. Our parametric test instruments and systems combine hardware technology and customizable system software, and are used to examine semiconductor wafers during the semiconductor manufacturing process. Our product development efforts are targeted at leading edge technologies, such as SOC high-speed flash memory products and process parametric inspection of 300mm wafers. 
Our semiconductor test products test a variety of different circuit types. These devices are usually tested after final assembly, but the testing of some devices is most effective immediately after the production of the silicon wafer, when the wafers are sorted. We believe we are the industry leader in wafer-sort test solutions for flash memory devices, which retain data even when the power is turned off and that are critical for use in digital cameras, cellular phones, personal digital assistants and storage of portable digital audio files. Our flash memory test products can test as many as 36 sites of multiple devices in parallel, greatly improving test throughput and lowering test costs for our customers. Our SOC test system can test not only multiple devices at a time, but also multiple functional elements on a given device at the same time. As a result of its scalable platform architecture, this system can be field-upgraded to the latest technology without the customer needing to buy a new system or shut down the production line for an extended time. 
High-Frequency Electronic Design Tools. 
Our high-frequency electronic design automation software tools are used by radio frequency integrated circuit design engineers to model, simulate and analyze communications product designs at the circuit and system levels. Our recent alliance with Cadence Design Systems extended this core technology to a much larger base of customers. 
Test and Measurement Customers We market our test and measurement solutions to customers across a broad array of industries. Several of our customers purchase products across several of our major product lines for their different business units. No single customer is material for the test and measurement business. 
A representative list of the most significant customers of our test and measurement business follows: Test and Measurement Sales, Marketing and Support We have a focused sales strategy to strengthen customer satisfaction. Our direct sales force is focused on identifying customer needs and recommending solutions involving the effective use and deployment of our equipment and systems. Some members of our direct sales force focus on global accounts, providing uniform services on a worldwide basis. Others focus on our more complex 8 products such as our communications monitoring systems and our automated test equipment, where customers require intensive strategic consultation. Our sales force also specifically targets the contract manufacturer market by collaborating with original equipment manufacturers to specify that contract manufacturers use our test equipment, as well as marketing to contract manufacturers directly. 
Our direct sales force consists of field engineers and systems engineers who often hold advanced degrees and who have in-depth knowledge of the customers business and technology needs. Some of our field engineers are account managers for our large accounts, and enhance our understanding of the future needs of these customers. Our systems engineers provide a combination of consulting, systems integration and application and software engineering services, and are instrumental in all stages of the sale, implementation and support of our complex systems and solutions. We also use value-added resellers to address specific market segments. 
Test and Measurement Manufacturing We concentrate our test and measurement manufacturing efforts primarily on final assembly and test of our products. To maximize our productivity and our ability to respond to market conditions, we use contract manufacturers for the production of printed circuit boards, sheetmetal fabrication, metal die casting, plastic molding and standard electronic components. We also manufacture proprietary devices and assemblies, such as x-ray tubes and high-frequency ICs and devices, in our own foundries for competitive advantage. 
Test and Measurement Competition The market for test and measurement equipment is highly competitive, and we expect this competition to increase. Our test and measurement business competes with a number of significant competitors in all our major product categories and across our targeted industries. In communications test, our primary competitors are Acterna, Anritsu, IFR Systems, Inc./ Marconi Communications Ltd., IXIA, Network Associates, Inc., Rohde & Schwartz, Spirent, Tektronix, Inc., as well as INET Technologies, Inc. and Micromuse Inc. in the communications network monitoring market. In the semiconductor test market, we compete primarily against Advantest Corporation, NPTest, Keithley Instruments and Teradyne. In the printed circuit board test market, a segment of the electronics manufacturing market, we compete primarily against Teradyne, Inc. In the general purpose electronic test market, we compete against companies such as Fluke Corporation (a subsidiary of Danaher Corporation), Keithley Instruments, Inc., LeCroy Corporation, National Instruments Corporation and Tektronix. Our EDA business also has several software competitors, including Ansoft Corporation, Aplac, Applied Wave Research, Eagleware, and Xpedion. 
In many of our test and measurement businesses, we have seen increasing pricing pressure during the past year, but most of our equipment competes primarily on performance or differentiated capabilities and is not subject to severe discounting. 
Semiconductor Products Our semiconductor products business is a leading supplier of semiconductor components, modules and assemblies for high performance communications systems. We design, develop and manufacture products for the networking and personal systems markets. 
We believe we are a leading provider of: 9 As of October 31, 2002, our semiconductor products business had approximately 7,800 employees worldwide. Our semiconductor products business generated revenue of $1.6 billion in fiscal year 2002, $1.9 billion in fiscal year 2001, and $2.2 billion in fiscal year 2000. 
Semiconductor Markets Our semiconductor products business serves the following markets: Networking There is a continued evolution of networks both private (Local Area and Storage Area Networks) and public (Metro Area and Wide Area Networks) to higher speeds and greater bandwidth driven by the ongoing growth of data traffic. Business-to-consumer and business-to-business e-commerce, the ever-expanding World Wide Web, the growing volume of e-mail traffic, the growth of streaming video and audio, the delivery of online services, and peer-to-peer communications are all generating ever greater volumes of electronic data that must be processed, moved and stored. As a result, both private and public network managers drive a continual process of upgrading their networks to higher speeds and increased scalability, albeit at a slower rate than in recent years. Fiber optic transceivers and high-speed digital ICs are the semiconductor technologies that help enable higher speed, higher performance networks. 
We are a major supplier of fiber optic transceivers, which convert electronic digital data into light signals for transmission, and convert light signals back into electronic digital form on the receiving end of the communication. We market fiber optic transceivers for both short-range, local area and storage area network applications and long-range, metro and wide area network applications to major data networking and telecommunication vendors. 
In high-speed digital ICs we are the leading supplier of controller ICs for Fibre Channel. The Fibre Channel interconnect protocol, a standard for the transfer of information between computers and storage devices defined by the American National Standards Institute, is the leading technology for building storage area networks ( SANs ). In addition, we are a leading supplier of physical layer ICs which connect processing ICs, such as our Fibre Channel controllers, to fiber optic transceivers for data transmission. Finally, we are providing state-of-the-art ASICs and networking ICs for use in next-generation network switches. 
Personal Systems Products in our Personal Systems business are targeted for use in applications including printers, personal computer ( PC ) peripherals, mobile phones, and consumer electronics. 
As in networking, the driving trend in mobile communications is for higher-speed, higher-bandwidth connections to offer subscribers more digital services through their mobile phones. Consumer products that realize the convergence of palm-top computing, mobile telephony, and digital imaging are increasingly appearing on the market. We offer innovative wireless products such as our FBAR duplexers and E-pHEMT power amplifiers, which are helping enable smaller, more functionally rich mobile telephones. In addition, we supply a wide range of RF and microwave ICs for use in both mobile telephones and mobile telephone infrastructure. We are developing digital camera solutions to be embedded in next-generation mobile phones and information appliances. Finally, we are the leading supplier of infrared transceiver products for short-range, point-to-point wireless communications to manufacturers of computers, printers, mobile telephones, digital cameras, personal digital assistants and pagers. 
10 We are the leading supplier to Hewlett-Packard of ASICs for printers, workstations and servers. We provide precision motion control devices for inkjet-based printers and all-in-one products to both Hewlett-Packard and other printer manufacturers. In addition, we provide optical image sensor products and optical mice for leading PC peripheral manufacturers. 
We also provide general-purpose optoelectronic products such as LEDs and optocouplers that serve multiple markets including factory automation and transportation. 
Semiconductor Strategy To service the needs of our customers in the communications and computer industries, the semiconductor products business pursues the following strategies: We intend to continue to offer high-speed communications solutions that incorporate analog (optoelectronic or wireless), mixed-signal and digital IC technologies for next-generation network infrastructure and mobile communications systems. 
Continue to be Hewlett-Packard s Leading Supplier of ASICs We are focused on reducing the costs and improving the performance of the ASICs we provide to Hewlett-Packard by pursuing higher levels of device integration and employing advanced process technology. 
Take Advantage of Technology Partnerships We intend to continue to enter into strategic technology partnerships to gain access to intellectual property and advanced semiconductor manufacturing process technology. 
Semiconductor Products Our major product areas include: Networking Fiber Optics. 
We market optical transceivers, transmitters and receivers for high-speed data communications for Fast, Gigabit and 10-Gigabit Ethernet, Fibre Channel, and ATM/SONET applications up to 2.5 gigabits per second (OC-48). In addition, we are developing transmission and switching products for dense wave division multiplexing ( DWDM ) optical transport applications. 
High-Speed Digital Integrated Circuits. 
We produce physical layer ICs for high speed network switches and routers, devices that direct network traffic. We produce Fibre Channel protocol-based ICs and subsystems for SANs. We provide core electronics chipsets that support central processing units for selected Hewlett-Packard workstations and servers. We are developing customer-specific ASIC solutions for next-generation data switching products. 
Personal Systems Radio Frequency and Microwave Communications Devices. 
We produce a broad family of RF and microwave communications products, primarily integrated circuits for wireless communications products and infrastructure. Our latest products are the FBAR duplexer, a semiconductor based filter product, and E-pHEMT power amplifiers, a high power-added efficient wireless transmitter solution. Both FBAR and E-pHEMT are targeted for current and future generation mobile phones. Currently, we are shipping over one million FBAR duplexers per month and are making initial production shipments of E-pHEMT power amplifiers. While neither product contributed a material amount of revenue in 2002, we anticipate that these products will be among the top growth drivers 11 for semiconductor products in the years to come based on the significant design win activity at leading mobile phone manufacturers. 
Infrared Emitters, Detectors and Transceiver Modules. 
We produce a full line of infrared products that enable short range, point-to-point wireless communication between portable and stationary devices, including notebook personal computers, cellular phones, personal digital assistants and digital cameras. 
Printing ASICs. 
We provide printing ASICs which are the central processing ICs for Hewlett-Packard laser printers, inkjet printers and all-in-one products. 
Optical Image Sensors and Processors, and Optical Position Sensors. 
Our sensor products include color and monochrome still and video camera image capture solutions and intelligent optical sensors. Applications include optical mice for personal computers and embedded cameras for next-generation mobile phones. We also produce optical motion control products used primarily for precision paper handling and positioning in inkjet printers and all-in-one products. 
LEDs and Optocouplers. 
We manufacture and sell a broad range of LEDs, alphanumeric displays and optocouplers. LEDs are semiconductor devices that emit light when an electrical signal is applied. Optocoupler products are devices that provide both electrical insulation, for protection, and signal isolation, to prevent distortion of data, between differing electrical environments. 
Lighting Joint Venture. 
We are engaged in a global joint venture ( Lumileds ) with Philips Electronics. Lumileds develops, manufactures and sells LEDs, modules, products and systems for a broad spectrum of lighting applications, including automotive lighting, high-brightness traffic signals, contour lighting and signs, outdoor illumination and white LEDs for both indoor and outdoor applications. 
Semiconductor Customers We sell to a broad array of customers in networking and personal systems. We sell to original equipment manufacturers directly, as well as contract manufacturers including Celestica, Flextronics, Jabil Circuit, Sanmina-SCI Systems and Solectron. 
Our semiconductor technology licensing and supply arrangements with Hewlett-Packard limit our ability to sell products to other companies, subject to restrictions contained in the exhibits to our Master Patent Ownership and License Agreement with Hewlett-Packard and our ICBD Technology Ownership and License Agreement with Hewlett-Packard, which are exhibits to this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Through sales of ASICs, storage area networking components and motion-control products, Hewlett-Packard accounted for approximately 33 percent of our semiconductor products revenue in fiscal year 2002, approximately 31 percent in fiscal year 2001 and approximately 30 percent in fiscal year 2000. After Hewlett-Packard, our top five customers are Cisco Systems, Huawei, Logitech, Nortel Networks TM and Samsung. 
Semiconductor Sales, Marketing and Support Our semiconductor sales organization consists of nearly 350 technical sales professionals who have responsibility for large, global accounts in three regional areas: the Americas, Europe and Asia Pacific. Our sales force has specialized product and service knowledge that enables it to sell specific offerings at key levels throughout a customer s organization. We also have a direct sales team that focuses on supporting major contract manufacturers such as Celestica, Flextronics, Jabil Circuit, Sanmina-SCI Systems and Solectron. In addition to our direct sales force, we generate approximately 30 percent of our revenue through our relationships with key electronic distributors, such as Arrow Electronics, Inc. and Avnet, Inc. on a worldwide basis, Future Electronics, Inc. in Europe and North America, Ryoyo Electro Singapore PTE, Ltd. and Tokyo Electric Power Company in Japan and SECOM Telecom in China. We also provide a broad range of products and applications-related information to customers and channel partners via the Internet. 
12 For selected customers, we maintain finished goods inventory near or at customer manufacturing sites to support Just-In-Time production. 
Semiconductor Manufacturing The majority of our silicon and gallium arsenide wafer fabrication is done in the U.S. and Singapore, while our assembly and test operations are in Malaysia, Singapore and the United Kingdom. In addition to these facilities, we utilize a network of contract manufacturers throughout Asia for semiconductor fabrication and test. 
Our manufacturing strategy has been to outsource more mature technologies while using our in-house manufacturing fabrication, assembly and test capabilities to develop new products. Our production facilities have developed several quality-management processes designed to increase productivity. We have developed proprietary automated test systems, particularly in optical, LED and microwave test. 
Semiconductor Competition The markets for our semiconductor products are intensely competitive, and we expect competition to increase. Our ability to compete effectively depends on a number of factors, including: In the fiber-optic products market, our principal competitors are Finisar, JDS Uniphase and Infineon. In the market for high-speed digital ICs, our principal competitors are IBM, Texas Instruments, LSI Logic and Vitesse Semiconductor Corporation. Our principal competitors in RF wireless are Hitachi, RF Micro Devices, and SkyWorks. In the market for infrared products, our principal competitor is Vishay Intertechnology, Inc. We compete with companies including LSI Logic, Motorola and STMicroelectronics for printer ASICs. Principal competitors in our LED businesses include Lite-on, Inc., Stanley Electronic Co., Ltd., Infineon and Toshiba. 
Life Sciences and Chemical Analysis Our life sciences and chemical analysis business provides application-focused solutions that include instruments, software, consumables and services that enable customers to identify, quantify and analyze the physical and biological properties of substances and products. Our seven key product categories include: microarrays, microfluidics, gas chromatography, liquid chromatography, mass spectrometry, informatics and related consumables and services. 
We employed approximately 3,750 people as of October 31, 2002 in our life sciences and chemical analysis business. This business generated revenue of $1.1 billion in each of fiscal years 2002 and 2001, and $1.0 billion in fiscal year 2000. 
13 Life Sciences and Chemical Analysis Markets We estimate that the market niches that we serve represent approximately 25 percent of the total available life sciences and analytical instrumentation market. Primarily, our life sciences and chemical analysis business serves the following markets: Life Sciences and Pharmaceutical Our life sciences and pharmaceutical markets account for approximately 40 percent of revenue from the life sciences and chemical analysis business. Agilent s life sciences solutions are used by academic researchers, government institutes and pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical companies in every phase of the drug development process. The drug development process includes research into the basic causes and understanding of disease, identification and development of new drugs, maintaining regulatory compliance and drug manufacturing and quality control. Within the life sciences, we focus on the following areas: Gene Expression. 
Biological researchers today can study organisms and diseases based on genetic material. Gene expression researchers use devices called microarrays to measure the activity levels of many genes in a cell simultaneously for the purpose of understanding and characterizing disease, identifying drug targets and identifying patterns of gene activity that correlate to the toxicity or potential success of a drug. This is a rapidly growing market in which both our microarray and microfluidics solutions are sold. 
Proteomics. 
When a drug enters the body, one or more proteins is its target. Proteomics is a new, potentially high-growth, field with the goal of identifying, characterizing and analyzing proteins on a high-volume scale. Protein scientists currently apply traditional protein analysis technologies such as liquid chromatography, gas chromatography and mass spectrometry, as well as newer microfluidics technologies. We provide solutions in all of these areas and are investigating new technologies for proteomics research. 
Drug development and manufacturing quality control. 
Pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical companies develop and manufacture drugs under strict regulatory guidelines intended to ensure the quality of chemicals developed and given to patients, and to ensure the security and quality of information given to regulatory agencies. We provide liquid chromatography, gas chromatography and mass spectrometry solutions for the analysis and quality control of chemicals, and provide compliance services and data systems designed to further enable compliance with relevant regulations of the Food and Drug Administration ( FDA ) and other regulatory agencies. 
Chemical Analysis Our chemical analysis markets account for approximately 60 percent of revenue from the life sciences and chemical analysis business. Agilent chemical analysis solutions are used by corporations, government organizations and academic researchers to detect, characterize, quantify and analyze chemicals and biological entities that could impact human health, both those found in the environment and those created in the manufacturing of products. Within chemical analysis, we focus on the following areas: 14 Environmental. 
Our gas chromatography, liquid chromatography and mass spectrometry solutions are used by the environmental market for applications such as laboratory and field analysis of chemical pollutants in air, water, soils and solid waste. Environmental industry customers include all levels of government, the industrial and manufacturing sectors, engineering and consulting companies, commercial testing laboratories and colleges and universities. We believe there will be more international demand for environmental instrumentation, particularly in the Asia-Pacific region, as other countries implement new and stricter environmental regulations. 
Petrochemical. 
The natural gas and petroleum refining markets use our products to measure and control the quality of their finished products and to verify the environmental safety of their operations. We sell gas chromatographs, liquid chromatographs and mass spectrometers into these markets. Petroleum refiners use our measurement solutions to analyze crude oil composition, perform raw material analysis, verify and improve refining processes and ensure the overall quality of gasoline, fuels, lubricants and other products. Our gas chromatographs are used to monitor consistent quality in the delivery of natural gas. 
Forensics. 
Our liquid chromatography, gas chromatography and mass spectrometry solutions are used by forensics laboratories in the U.S. and abroad, particularly by the U.S. military in the analysis of evidence associated with crime or biological and chemical warfare. This instrumentation is either used in static or mobile laboratories by state police units, federal law enforcement agencies and by the U.S. military. We believe increased funding by the U.S. government for homeland defense, including the detection of biochemical agents, could increase demand for our products and services in this market. 
Bioagriculture and Foods. 
Food safety industries apply the same general technologies for chemical analysis as the pharmaceutical and environmental markets, including gas and liquid chromatography and mass spectrometry. Additionally, bioagriculture industries seek to improve crops and foods by conducting genetic research on these organisms using microarray and microfluidics solutions. We believe that increasing regulation will create more demand for our technologies, particularly in Europe and Asia. 
Life Sciences and Chemical Analysis Strategy In order to maintain our leading position in the instrumentation solutions market, our strategy is as follows: We continue to focus resources on the development and growth of bio-instrumentation, consumables and services solutions that increase understanding of the molecular cause of diseases in order to speed the development and increase the efficacy of new drugs. 
Focus on Growth Opportunities in Chemical Markets To address emerging environmental and food safety markets in the Asia-Pacific, Latin American and European regions, we are broadening our worldwide distribution capabilities and developing less complex instrumentation with lower prices. We continue to develop gas and liquid chromatography and mass spectrometry products that are smaller and more portable to meet increasing demand for use of these instruments outside of centralized laboratories, including the potential growth market of bioterrorism detection and crime investigation in the U.S. and Europe. 
15 Bring New Products and Technologies to Market Faster We seek to bring new products and technologies to market both through internal development and the strategic acquisition of technologies from third parties. We are expanding our programs to offer customers early access to products under development to ensure that these products are meeting customer needs. In addition, our development of modular hardware and software platforms allows us to bring new generations of products to market faster. 
In addition to our internal efforts, we consider acquisitions, strategic partnerships and minority equity investments to complement our current products, solutions and technologies and to accelerate our entry into strategic markets. 
Leverage Strategic Relationships and Alliances We intend to build strategic relationships to enable us to develop products and services that complement existing technologies and products in our target markets in order to deliver complete solutions. For example, we have formed and expanded relationships with Incyte Genomics for microarray content and with Rosetta Inpharmatics, Inc. for microarray analysis software. 
In addition, we develop our products with a commitment to open platforms and industry standards in order to work with our partners products, enabling us to offer our customers a broader range of products and solutions. 
Life Sciences and Chemical Analysis Products A key factor in all of our life sciences and chemical target markets is the need for new products that increase productivity of the customer and provide high quality data that enables decision-making. 
Microarrays Since announcing the launch of our DNA microarray program for the life sciences in December 1999, we have become the second leading supplier of microarray solutions. Using our refined inkjet manufacturing process, we make both oligonucleotide ( oligo ) and cDNA microarrays. This unique inkjet process is highly flexible and accurate, enabling the faster manufacture of new and custom high-density microarrays with highly uniform spot shape. 
In 2002, we developed numerous custom microarrays and introduced five new microarray kits: Rat (cDNA), Mouse (cDNA), Human 1 (oligo), Mouse (oligo), and Yeast (oligo). We also introduced version B of our microarray scanner, which is used to detect expression levels measured by the microarray. Improvements included laser and software enhancements that increase compatibility with third-party microarrays. 
Microfluidics The Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer instrument systems that we developed through our relationship with Caliper Technologies is the first commercial microfluidics solution for the analysis of a wide range of biological molecules, including DNA, RNA, proteins and cells. The microfluidics chip allows sample quality assessment to be done in a fraction of the usual time using less sample and reagents. This technology could eventually replace traditional gel electrophoresis in many applications. 
In 2002, Agilent and Caliper introduced a cell fluorescence LabChip kit with increased capabilities for staining procedures with minimum cell quantities. We are in the process of developing new microfluidics-based instruments and assays for 2003. 
16 Gas Chromatography We produce gas chromatography systems, both portable and stationary. A gas chromatograph ( GC ) is used to separate any gas, liquid or solid molecules that can be vaporized in order to determine the quantity and identity of the molecules present. As a market leader in gas chromatography, we continue to expand its applications with new columns and supplies, as well as product and software enhancements. 
In 2002, we introduced the most versatile of our micro GC family, the Agilent 3000 Micro GC, which enables analysis of virtually any type of complex gas using up to four channels simultaneously, and the Agilent 3000 Micro GC Portable, which is a small, easy-to-carry version that does not require an outside power source or external carrier gas supply. 
Liquid Chromatography A liquid chromatograph ( LC ) or a high performance liquid chromatograph ( HPLC ) is used to separate molecules of a liquid mixture to determine the quantity and identity of the molecules present. Used when chromatography is not an option, these instruments are modular in construction and can be configured to form instruments that perform specific analyses. As a leader in liquid chromatography, we continue to expand its applications with new LC and HPLC columns and provide ongoing product and software enhancements. 
In 2002, we introduced the 1100 Series fully integrated high-throughput liquid chromatography/mass spectrometry ( LC/MS ) system, based on the modular and scaleable design of our industry-leading 1100 Series HPLC. We also took the first step in creating universal, performance-based searchable mass spectral libraries for LC/MS. 
Mass Spectrometry A mass spectrometer ( MS ) identifies and quantifies chemicals based on a chemical s molecular mass and, in many cases, on characteristic patterns of fragment masses that result when a molecule is broken apart. Mass spectrometry is an important tool in analyzing proteins and other biological entities that undergo transformations because it enables the understanding and characterization of their many different states. MS systems are typically used in combination with gas or liquid chromatographs. 
In 2002, Agilent and MassTech Inc. introduced an atmospheric pressure matrix-assisted laser desorption/ ionization ( AP-MALDI ) source for use on the Agilent 1100 Series LC/MSD Trap SL ion trap mass spectrometer. We introduced the Nanoflow Proteomics Solution, a highly integrated liquid chromatograph/ion trap mass spectrometer system optimized for proteomics applications. Also, we released a new Plasma Chromatographic software suite for the Agilent 7500 inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometer. 
Also in 2002, we introduced a new, real-time gas analyzer, the Agilent 5000A real-time quadrupole mass spectrometer-based gas analyzer, that helps fuel cell developers understand and optimize fuel cell systems, lower fuel cell costs and improve process efficiencies. 
Software and Informatics Across all of our technology platforms, the software for controlling the instrument and the informatics solutions used to capture and analyze the instrument data are critical. In 2002, we embarked on an expansion of the informatics solutions we offer our life sciences and chemical analysis customers. 
In July, we began to ship the Agilent Cerity Pharmaceutical Networked Data System ( NDS ) for quality assurance and quality control in pharmaceutical drug development and manufacturing. The Cerity Pharmaceutical system includes software tools to help customers comply with FDA require- 17 ments regarding electronic signatures and secure record keeping. We also upgraded elements of our ChemStation Networked Data System solution. 
For drug discovery and development, in August we launched the Synapsia Informatics Workbench solution, which helps researchers to synthesize research from internal and external sources in a manner that supports hypothesis-driven research across distributed organizations with multi-disciplinary teams. For gene expression data analysis, Agilent and Rosetta Biosoftware introduced the Rosetta Luminator system, a scaled-down, lower-cost version of the Rosetta Resolver product that is targeted at a wider audience of academic and biotech researchers. For proteomics, we signed an exclusive license agreement with Millennium Pharmaceuticals, Inc. to develop and market Millennium Spectrum Mill protein analysis informatics software, which analyzes large volumes of complex mass spectrometry data. 
Services and Support, including Consumables We also offer a broad range of consumable products, which support our top ranked LC, GC and MS technology platforms. These consumable products include chemical and biological reagents, instrument replacement parts, brand-specific chromatography columns and consumable supplies to meet our customers analysis needs. All of our products, which include generic and proprietary supplies, are designed to work together. 
Our support services include all of our chemical and bioinstrumentation analysis hardware and software maintenance, troubleshooting, repair and training. Special service bundles have also been designed to meet the specific analysis instrument needs of various industries. 
Life Sciences and Chemical Analysis Customers We sell our products and services to a broad array of customers in each of the markets we serve. We have roughly 25,000 customers and no one customer, is material or accounts for more than 3 percent of the revenue of our life sciences and chemical analysis businesses. Our top 25 customers account for approximately 22 percent of revenue within our life sciences and chemical analysis businesses. The top 5 customers in our life sciences and chemical analysis markets are as follows: Life Sciences and Chemical Analysis Sales, Marketing and Support Our sales and support delivery channels are aligned by key markets. We market our products to our customers through our direct sales force, an inside-sales force, e-commerce, value-added resellers, manufacturers representatives and distributors. 
We use our direct sales force to market our solutions to all of our pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical accounts, large and medium-sized chemical customers and environmental accounts. We supplement our direct sales force with an inside-sales force and sales agents to provide broader geographic coverage and to cover smaller accounts. We also have an active value-added reseller program to augment our ability to provide more complete solutions to our customers. We sell our consumable products through distributors, telesales and electronic commerce. 
We offer a wide range of startup, operational, educational and compliance support services for our chemical analysis measurement and data handling systems. We deliver our support services to customers in a variety of ways, including on-site assistance with repair or exchange of returned 18 products, telephone support and self-diagnostic services provided over the Internet. Our support services limit the amount of time an instrument is out of service, provide increased system productivity, extend the instrument life and offer fast problem resolution. We also offer special industry-focused service bundles that are designed to meet the specific needs of hydrocarbon processing, environmental, pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical customers to keep instruments fully operational and compliant with the respective industry requirements. 
Life Sciences and Chemical Analysis Manufacturing Our manufacturing supports our diverse product range and customer-centric focus. We assemble highly configurable products to individual customer orders and make standard products to stock. We employ advanced manufacturing techniques and supply chain management systems to reduce costs and manufacturing cycle times. We selectively use partners to provide manufacturing capabilities outside our core competencies, such as the manufacture of quadrupole and printed circuit assemblies and the delivery of shipment logistics. We have manufacturing facilities in California and Delaware in the U.S., China, Germany and Japan. 
Life Sciences and Chemical Analysis Competition The markets for analytical instruments in which we compete are characterized by evolving industry standards and intense competition. Our principal competitors in the life sciences arena include: Applied Biosystems, Amersham Bioscience, Invitrogen, Waters, Thermo Electron and Affymetrix . Our principal competitors in the chemical analysis arena include: Shimadzu Corporation, Varian, Perkin Elmer Corp., Thermo Electron and Applied Biosystems. 
Life Sciences and Chemical Analysis Government Regulation The analysis products and related consumables marketed by our chemical analysis business are subject to regulation in the U.S. by the Environmental Protection Agency ( EPA ) under the Toxic Substances Control Act, and by government agencies in other countries under similar laws. The Toxic Substances Control Act regulations govern, among other things, the testing, manufacture, processing and distribution of chemicals, the testing of regulated chemicals for their effects on human health and safety and import and export of chemicals. The Toxic Substances Control Act prohibits persons from manufacturing any chemical in the U.S. that has not been reviewed by EPA for its effect on health and safety, and placed on an EPA inventory of chemical substances. Therefore, we must continually adapt our chemical analysis products to changing regulations. If we fail to comply with the notification, record-keeping and other requirements in the manufacture or distribution of our products, the EPA can obtain an order from a court that would prohibit the further distribution or marketing of a product that does not comply or we could face fines, civil penalties or criminal prosecution. 
Life Sciences and Chemical Analysis Seasonality The life sciences and chemical analysis business is susceptible to seasonality in its orders and revenues primarily based on U.S. government and large pharmaceutical company budgets. The result is that the first and fourth fiscal quarters tend to be the strongest for this group. However, general economic trends, new product introductions and competition might overshadow this trend in any given year. 
Agilent Technologies Laboratories ( Agilent Labs ) Agilent Labs, based in Palo Alto, California, with satellite offices in China; Fort Collins, Colorado; Japan; and Scotland, is our central research organization. Agilent Labs engages in two types of research: 1) applied research that leads to technology that can be transferred to our existing businesses in communications, life sciences, and electronics, and 2) research that creates new 19 businesses that are outside of our current markets but within our fields of interest. Agilent Labs also provides technology integration across our Company. 
Agilent Labs employs approximately 375 people. Over 75 percent of Agilent Labs employees are members of the technical staff, and about half of this 75 percent have advanced degrees that cover a wide range of scientific fields, including biology, bioinformatics, chemistry, computer science, electrical engineering, image processing, materials science, mathematics, optoelectronics, photonics, physics, physiology, semiconductor technology and systems integration. 
The following discussions of Backlog, Research and Development, Intellectual Property, Materials, Environmental, International Operations and Acquisition and Disposal of Material Assets include information common to all three of our segments. 
Backlog We believe that backlog orders are not a meaningful indicator of future business prospects. Backlog, as we define it, generally only represents cumulative outstanding orders that are scheduled for delivery within a six-month period. Therefore backlog is not a material indicator of our future medium- to long-term business prospects. We believe that our incoming orders in any given period are more indicative of short-term revenue trends. See Results of Continuing Operations in Item 7 of this report. 
Research and Development Research and development expenditures were $1,169 million in 2002, $1,280 million in 2001 and $1,065 million in fiscal year 2000, the vast majority of which was company-sponsored. We anticipate that we will continue to have significant R&D expenditures in order to maintain our competitive position with a continuing flow of innovative, high-quality products and services. 
Intellectual Property Our general policy has been to seek patent and other intellectual property protection for those inventions and improvements likely to be incorporated into our products and services or to give us a competitive advantage. While we believe that our licenses, patents and applications have value, in general no single patent or license is in itself essential. In addition, there can be no assurance that any of our proprietary rights will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, or that our rights will provide significant competitive advantages. 
Materials Our manufacturing operations employ a wide variety of semiconductors, electromechanical components and assemblies and raw materials such as plastic resins and sheet metal. Currently, we purchase materials and contract materials from 8,200 suppliers on a global basis. Of these, 350 suppliers made up 80 percent of our spending. Approximately 5 percent of our incoming materials require some custom work where it may be cost prohibitive to have multiple suppliers. Our long-term relationships with our suppliers allow us to proactively manage technology road maps and product discontinuance plans and monitor their financial health. Even so, some suppliers may still extend their lead times, limit supplies, increase prices or cease to produce necessary parts for our products. If these are unique components, we may not be able to find a substitute quickly, or at all. To address the potential disruption in our supply chain, we use a number of techniques, including qualifying multiple sources of supply, redesign of products for alternative components and purchase of incremental inventory for supply buffer. 
20 Environmental Our R&D, manufacturing and distribution operations involve the use of hazardous substances and are regulated under international, federal, state and local laws governing health and safety and the environment. We apply strict standards for protection of the environment and worker health and safety to sites inside and outside the U.S., even if not subject to regulation imposed by foreign governments. We believe that our properties and operations at our facilities comply in all material respects with applicable environmental laws and worker health and safety laws; however, the risk of environmental liabilities cannot be completely eliminated and there can be no assurance that the application of environmental and health and safety laws to our Company will not require us to incur significant expenditures. We are also regulated under a number of international, federal, state and local laws regarding recycling, product packaging and product content requirements. These laws are gradually becoming more stringent and may in the future cause us to incur significant expenditures. 
Some of our operations are located on properties that are known to have subsurface contamination that is undergoing remediation by Hewlett-Packard. Hewlett-Packard has agreed to retain the liability for the contamination, perform the required remediation and indemnify us with respect to claims arising out of the contamination. The determination of the existence and cost of any additional contamination caused by us could involve costly and time-consuming negotiations and litigation. While we expect that Hewlett-Packard will meet its remediation and indemnification obligations in this regard, there can be no guarantee that it will do so. Under our agreement with Hewlett-Packard, Hewlett-Packard will have access to these properties to perform the remediation. Hewlett-Packard has agreed to minimize interference with on-site operations at those properties during the course of the remediation, but there can be no guarantee that our operations will not be interrupted or that we will not be required to incur unreimbursed costs associated with the remediation. Remediation could also harm on-site operations and the future use and value of the properties. 
In addition, some of these properties are undergoing remediation by Hewlett-Packard under an order of an agency of the state in which the property is located. Although Hewlett-Packard has agreed to indemnify us with respect to that subsurface contamination, it is possible that one or more of the governmental agencies will require us to be named on any of these orders. The naming of our Company will not affect Hewlett-Packard s obligation to indemnify us with regard to these matters. 
We are liable and are indemnifying Hewlett-Packard for any contamination found at all facilities transferred to us by Hewlett-Packard excluding the properties undergoing remediation. In addition, we are indemnifying Hewlett-Packard for any liability associated with past non-compliance with environmental laws regulating ongoing operations at all properties transferred to us by Hewlett-Packard, as well as at sold or discontinued businesses that related to our businesses. While we are not aware of any material liabilities associated with such indemnified matters, there is no guarantee that such contamination or regulatory non-compliance does not exist, and will not expose us to material liability in the future. 
We are being indemnified by Hewlett-Packard with respect to all environmental liabilities for which Hewlett-Packard accrued a reserve and we are not aware of any material and probable environmental liabilities being assumed by us which are not subject to the indemnity. 
International Operations Our net revenue originating outside the U.S., as a percentage of our total net revenue, was approximately 61 percent in fiscal 2002, 60 percent in fiscal year 2001 and 57 percent in fiscal year 2000, the majority of which was from customers other than foreign governments. Approximately 11 percent of our international revenue in the last three years was derived from Japan. Long-lived assets located outside of the U.S., as a percentage of our total long-lived assets, was approximately 62 percent in fiscal year 2002, 44 percent in fiscal year 2001 and 49 percent in fiscal year 2000. 
21 Approximately 13 percent of our long-lived assets were located in Japan in fiscal year 2002, approximately 17 percent in fiscal year 2001 and approximately 14 percent in fiscal year 2000. 
Most of our sales in international markets are made by foreign sales subsidiaries. In countries with low sales volumes, sales are made through various representatives and distributors. However, we also sell into international markets directly from the U.S. 
Our international business is subject to risks customarily encountered in foreign operations, including interruption to transportation flows for delivery of parts to us and finished goods to our customers, changes in a specific country s or region s political or economic conditions, trade protection measures, import or export licensing requirements, unexpected changes in tax laws and regulatory requirements, difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations, differing labor regulations and differing protection of intellectual property. We are also exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk inherent in our sales commitments, anticipated sales, and assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the local functional currency, and may also become subject to interest rate risk inherent in any debt we incur, or investment and finance receivable portfolios we hold. The U.S. and international response to recent terrorist activities could exacerbate these risks. For example, there may be an increased risk of political unrest in regions where we have significant manufacturing operations such as Southeast Asia. However, we believe that our international diversification provides stability to our worldwide operations and reduces the impact on us of adverse economic changes in any single country. Financial information about our international operations is contained in Note 20, Segment Information, of the consolidated financial statements included in Item 15 of this report. 
Acquisition and Disposal of Material Assets On January 5, 2001, we acquired Objective Systems Integrators, Inc. ( OSI ) for approximately $716 million. OSI was a leading provider of next-generation operations-support-system software for communications service providers and has become part of our test and measurement business. In January 2000, April 2000 and January 2001, we acquired Yokogawa Electric Corporation s 25 percent equity interest in Agilent Technologies Japan, Ltd. for approximately $521 million. In addition to the OSI and Yokogawa acquisitions, we acquired several other companies since our incorporation that were not material. More information about these acquisitions is contained in Item 7 and Note 5, Acquisitions and Sale of Assets, to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 15 of this report. 
In the fourth quarter of 2000, we entered into an asset purchase agreement with CIT Group Inc. ( CIT, formerly Tyco Capital Corporation) to sell them substantially all of our leasing portfolio over the course of 2000 and 2001. We also entered into a vendor financing arrangement with CIT whereby CIT will provide equipment financing and leasing services to our customers on a global basis. More information about these agreements is contained in Item 7 and Note 5, Acquisitions and Sale of Assets, to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 15 of this report. 
In February 2001, we sold a parcel of surplus land in San Jose, California for $287 million in cash. 
On August 1, 2001, Agilent completed the sale of its healthcare solutions business to Koninklijke Philips Electronics, N.V. pursuant to an Asset Purchase Agreement for a total purchase price of $1.7 billion, as more specifically discussed in Item 7 and Note 4, Discontinued Operations, to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 15 of this report. 
Executive Officers of the Registrant The names of our executive officers, and their ages, titles and biographies as of November 30, 2002, appear below. All officers are elected for one-year terms. 
22 Edward W. Barnholt, 59, has served as our President and Chief Executive Officer and as a director since May 1999. He became chairman of the board of directors on November 20, 2002. Before being named our Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Barnholt served as General Manager of Hewlett-Packard s Measurement Organization from 1998 to 1999, which included Hewlett-Packard s Electronic Instrument Group, the Microwave and Communications Group, the Communications Test Solutions Group, the Automated Test Group, the Chemical Analysis Group, the Components Group and the Medical Products Group. From 1990 to 1998, he served as General Manager of Hewlett-Packard s Test and Measurement Organization. He was elected a Senior Vice President of Hewlett-Packard in 1993 and an Executive Vice President in 1996. He is a director of KLA-Tencor Corporation. 
Byron J. Anderson, 60, has served as our Senior Vice President and General Manager, Electronic Products and Solutions Group since August 1999. Prior to assuming that position, Mr. Anderson served as a vice president of Hewlett-Packard since November 1995 and General Manager of the Microwave and Communications Group since September 1997. In January 1991, Mr. Anderson was named General Manager of Hewlett-Packard s Communications Test Business Unit, which became the Communications Test Solutions Group in 1994. 
Dick M. Chang, 63, has served as our Senior Vice President and General Manager, Semiconductor Products Group since March 2002. Prior to assuming that position, he served as Vice President and General Manager of Networking Solutions Division from 1999 to March 2002. During 1998, Mr. Chang served as the General Manager of Communications Semiconductor Solutions Division of Hewlett-Packard and later that year assumed the same position for the Integrated Circuit Business Division of Hewlett-Packard. Mr. Chang joined Hewlett-Packard in 1967 as a member of Hewlett-Packard Labs technical staff and, over the years, held a variety of managerial positions within Hewlett-Packard. 
Alain A. Couder, 56, served as our Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer from February 2000 to March 2002. Prior to assuming this position, Mr. Couder served as President, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer at Packard Bell NEC from 1998 to 2000. Prior to joining Packard Bell NEC, Mr. Couder held several management positions from 1991 through 1998, including Chief Operating Officer in 1997 with Groupe Bull. From 1984 to 1991, Mr. Couder was a General Manager in the computer business at Hewlett-Packard Company in the U.S. and France. 
Adrian T. Dillon, 48, has served as our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since December 2001. Prior to assuming this position, Mr. Dillon served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial and Planning Officer of Eaton Corporation from April 1997 to December 2001. Mr. Dillon held various management positions at Eaton Corporation from 1979 to 1997. 
William R. Hahn, 51, has served as our Senior Vice President, Corporate Relations since August 1999. Since October 1997, Mr. Hahn served as the Sector Controller of Hewlett-Packard s Measurement Organization. From September 1995 to October 1997, he served as Operations Manager for Hewlett-Packard s interactive broadband program. From May 1993 to September 1995, Mr. Hahn served as Vice President of Finance and Manufacturing and Chief Financial Officer at Aspect Communications. 
Jean M. Halloran, 50, has served as our Senior Vice President, Human Resources since August 1999. Since 1997, Ms. Halloran served as Director of Corporate Education and Development for Hewlett-Packard. Prior to assuming this position, from 1993 to 1997, Ms. Halloran acted as human resources manager for Hewlett-Packard s Measurement Systems Organization. Ms. Halloran joined Hewlett-Packard in 1980 in the Medical Products Group, where she held a variety of positions in human resources, manufacturing and strategic planning. 
Dorothy D. Hayes, 51, has served as our Vice President and Controller since August 1999. Prior to assuming that position, since October 1989, Ms. Hayes held a number of positions at Hewlett-Packard. She served as Transition General Manager from March to July 1999, Director of Internal 23 Audit from July 1997 to June 1999, Measurement Systems Organization Controller from February 1994 to July 1997, Components Group Controller from September 1993 to February 1996 and Corporate Financial Reporting Manager from October 1989 to September 1993. She is a director of the Addison Avenue Federal Credit Union and a member of the Board of Trustees of the Woodside Priory School in Portola Valley, California. 
Larry C. Holmberg, 56, has served as our Senior Vice President, Sales, Marketing and Customer Support since February 2001. Prior to assuming this position, Mr. Holmberg served as Vice President of Sales, Marketing and Field Operations for the Communications Solutions Group since February 1999. From October 1998 to January 1999, Mr. Holmberg served as a Communications Service Provider Region Manager of Hewlett-Packard for the Asia region based in Hong Kong, the Region General Manager for the Test and Measurement Organizations of Hewlett-Packard for the Latin America region from 1996 to 1998. Prior to rejoining Hewlett-Packard in 1996, Mr. Holmberg held various computer system sales and general management positions with Digital Equipment Corporation from 1977 to 1996. Mr. Holmberg also has served on numerous boards of industry associations and public and private technology organizations such as NM Technet, one of the first US Internet Service Providers, where he was a co-founder and Riotech, a national technology transfer organization, where he was Chairman of the Board. 
D. Craig Nordlund, 53, was named our Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary in May 1999 and serves as an officer or director for a variety of Agilent subsidiaries. He is also a director of the Addison Avenue Federal Credit Union. Mr. Nordlund served as Associate General Counsel and Secretary of Hewlett-Packard Company from 1987 to 1999. 
Thomas A. Saponas, 53, has served as our Senior Vice President and Chief Technology Officer since August 1999. Prior to being named Chief Technology Officer, from June 1998 to April 1999, Mr. Saponas was Vice President and General Manager of Hewlett-Packard s Electronic Instruments Group. Mr. Saponas has held a number of positions since the time he joined Hewlett-Packard. Mr. Saponas served as General Manager of the Lake Stevens Division from August 1997 to June 1998 and General Manager of the Colorado Springs Division from August 1989 to August 1997. In 1986, he was a White House Fellow in Washington, D.C. 
John E. Scruggs, 61, served as our Senior Vice President, Automated Test Group from August 1999 to May 2002. Prior to assuming that position, since January 1992, Mr. Scruggs was General Manager of the Automated Test Group of Hewlett-Packard within the Test and Measurement Organization. He was elected a Vice President of Hewlett-Packard in November 1996. 
William P. Sullivan, 52, has served as our Senior Vice President, Semiconductor Products Group from August 1999 to March 2002 and our Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer since March 2002. Prior to assuming the position as our Senior Vice President in our Semiconductor Products Group in August 1999, from February 1998, he served as Vice President and General Manager of Hewlett-Packard s Components Group. In 1997, Mr. Sullivan served as General Manager of the Communication Semiconductor Solutions Division. From 1995 to 1997, he was General Manager of the Optical Communication Division. From April 1991 to February 1995, Mr. Sullivan served as Research and Development Manager for the Optical Communication Division. 
Jack P. Trautman, 52, has served as our Senior Vice President and General Manager, Automated Test Group since May 2002. Prior to assuming that position, Mr. Trautman served as Vice President and General Manager of Communications Management Solutions Business Unit from 2001 to 2002. He served as General Manager of the Data Protection Unit of Hewlett-Packard from 2000 to 2001. Mr. Trautman was the General Manager of Hewlett-Packard s Computer Peripherals Bristol Division in Bristol, England from 1997 to 2000. Mr. Trautman joined Hewlett-Packard in 1974 and held a number of managerial positions over the years. 
Chris Van Ingen, 56, has served as our Senior Vice President and General Manager, Life Sciences and Chemical Analysis Group since May 2001. Prior to assuming this position, since 1977, Mr. Van 24 Ingen held a number of positions at Hewlett-Packard. He served as Chemical Analysis Group Sales and Marketing Manager from 1996 to April 2001, the Americas Marketing Center Manager from 1989 to 1996, Product Marketing Manager at Little Falls Division from 1986 to 1989, Sales Support Manager at Little Falls Division from 1984 to 1986. 
Robert R. Walker, 52, served as our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer from May 2000 to December 2001 and as our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer from May 1999 to May 2000. During 1997 and 1998, Mr. Walker served as Vice President and General Manager of Hewlett-Packard s Professional Services Business Unit. From 1993 to 1997, he led Hewlett-Packard s information systems function. He became Chief Information Officer in 1995 and served in that position until 1997. Mr. Walker was named a Vice President of Hewlett-Packard in 1995. From 1975 to 1993, Mr. Walker held a variety of financial positions at Hewlett-Packard. 
Thomas E. White, 45, has served as our Senior Vice President and General Manager, Communications Solutions Group since August 1999. From 1997 to August 1999, Mr. White served as Vice President and General Manager of the Communications Solutions Group of Hewlett-Packard. From 1996 to 1997, he served as General Manager of the Computer Peripherals Bristol Division and, in 1994, he served as General Manager for the Telecommunications Systems Division, South Queensferry, Scotland. 
Investor Information We are subject to the informational requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act ). Therefore, we file periodic reports, proxy statements and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC ). Such reports, proxy statements and other information may be obtained by visiting the Public Reference Room of the SEC at 450 Fifth Street, NW, Washington, DC 20549 or by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, the SEC maintains an Internet site (http://www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically. 
You can access financial and other information at our Investor Relations website. The address is www.investor.agilent.com. We make available, free of charge, copies of our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after filing such material electronically or otherwise furnishing it to the SEC. 
Although the New York Stock Exchange s proposed rules requiring disclosure of some corporate governance documents on companies websites are not yet effective, we have voluntarily provided such information. Our Corporate Governance Standards, the charters of our Audit and Finance Committee, our Compensation Committee, our Executive Committee and our Nominating/Corporate Governance Committee and our Standards of Business Conduct are available on our website at www.investor.agilent.com and available in print to any stockholder who requests them by calling (877) 942-4200 in the U.S. and Canada, and (402) 573-9919 outside the U.S. and Canada. 