http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1090872/000104746908013312/a2189713z10-k.htm
http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1090872/000104746908013312/a2189713z10-k.htm
1.025e+12
A
2008-10-31
10-K
A_2008-10-31_10-K.txt

Item 8. 
Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 58 REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM To the Stockholders and Board of Directors of Agilent Technologies, Inc.: In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements listed in the index appearing under Item 8 present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Agilent Technologies, Inc. and its subsidiaries at October 31, 2008 and October 31, 2007 and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended October 31, 2008 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. In addition, in our opinion, the financial statement schedule listed in the index appearing under Item 15(a)(2) presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein when read in conjunction with the related consolidated financial statements. Also in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of October 31, 2008, based on criteria established in Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). The Company's management is responsible for these financial statements and financial statement schedule, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in Management's Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting appearing under Item 9A. Our responsibility is to express opinions on these financial statements, on the financial statement schedule, and on the Company's internal control over financial reporting based on our integrated audits. We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement and whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audits of the financial statements included examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audits also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions. 
As discussed in Note 14 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 158, "Employers' Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106 and 132(R)" as of October 31, 2007 and changed the manner in which it accounts for defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans as of October 31, 2007. 
As discussed in Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements, in accordance with the adoption of Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation No. 48, "Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes", the Company changed the manner in which it accounts for uncertain tax positions as of November 1, 2007. 
A company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company's internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (iii) provide 59 reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. 
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. 
PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS LLP San Jose, California December 19, 2008 60 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 
61 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 
62 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 
63 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 
64 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1. Overview and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Agilent Technologies, Inc. ("we", "Agilent" or the "company"), incorporated in Delaware in May 1999, is a measurement company, providing core bio-analytical and electronic measurement solutions to the communications, electronics, life sciences and chemical analysis industries. Prior to our initial public offering of 16 percent of our stock in November 1999, we were a wholly- owned subsidiary of Hewlett-Packard Company ("HP"). HP distributed the remaining 84 percent of our stock to its stockholders on June 2, 2000 in the form of a stock dividend. 
In the first quarter of 2006, we completed the divestiture of our semiconductor products business. In the third quarter of 2006, we completed the initial public offering of our semiconductor test solutions business, Verigy Ltd., ("Verigy"). Verigy was a majority-owned subsidiary of Agilent until the distribution of our remaining Verigy shares to Agilent stockholders on October 31, 2006. The results of our semiconductor products business and semiconductor test solutions business are presented as a discontinued operation for all periods in the consolidated financial statements included herein. 
Basis of presentation. 
The accompanying financial data has been prepared by us pursuant to the rules and regulations of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") and is in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"). Our fiscal year end is October 31. Unless otherwise stated, all years and dates refer to our fiscal year. 
Management is responsible for the fair presentation of the accompanying consolidated financial statements, prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP, and has full responsibility for their integrity and accuracy. In the opinion of management, the accompanying consolidated financial statements contain all adjustments necessary to present fairly our consolidated balance sheet, statement of operations, statement of cash flows and statement of stockholders' equity for all periods presented. 
Principles of consolidation. 
The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the company and our wholly- and majority-owned subsidiaries. All significant intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated. Partially owned, non-controlled equity affiliates are accounted for under the equity method. 
Use of estimates. 
The preparation of financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Management bases its estimates on historical experience and various other assumptions believed to be reasonable. Although these estimates are based on management's best knowledge of current events and actions that may impact the company in the future, actual results may be different from the estimates. Our critical accounting policies are those that affect our financial statements materially and involve difficult, subjective or complex judgments by management. Those policies are revenue recognition, inventory valuation, investment impairments, share-based compensation, retirement and post-retirement plan assumptions, valuation of long-lived assets and accounting for income taxes. 
Revenue recognition. 
We enter into agreements to sell products (hardware and/or software), services and other arrangements (multiple element arrangements) that include combinations of products and services. 
65 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) We recognize revenue, net of trade discounts and allowances, provided that (1) persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, (2) delivery has occurred, (3) the price is fixed or determinable and (4) collectibility is reasonably assured. Delivery is considered to have occurred when title and risk of loss have transferred to the customer, for products, or when the service has been provided. We consider the price to be fixed or determinable when the price is not subject to refund or adjustments. We consider arrangements with extended payment terms not to be fixed or determinable, and accordingly we defer revenue until amounts become due. At the time of the transaction, we evaluate the creditworthiness of our customers to determine the appropriate timing of revenue recognition. 
Product revenue. 
Our product revenue is generated predominantly from the sales of various types of test equipment. Product revenue, including sales to resellers and distributors, is reduced for estimated returns, when appropriate. For sales or arrangements that include customer-specified acceptance criteria, including those where acceptance is required upon achievement of performance milestones, revenue is recognized after the acceptance criteria have been met. For products that include installation, if the installation meets the criteria to be considered a separate element, product revenue is recognized upon delivery, and recognition of installation revenue is delayed until the installation is complete. Otherwise, neither the product nor the installation revenue is recognized until the installation is complete. 
Where software is licensed separately, revenue is recognized when the software is delivered and title and risk of loss have been transferred to the customer or, in the case of electronic delivery of software, when the customer is given access to the licensed software programs. We also evaluate whether collection of the receivable is probable, the fee is fixed or determinable and whether any other undelivered elements of the arrangement exist on which a portion of the total fee would be allocated based on vendor-specific objective evidence. 
Service revenue. 
Revenue from services includes extended warranty, customer support, consulting, training and education. Service revenue is deferred and recognized over the contractual period or as services are rendered and accepted by the customer. For example, customer support contracts are recognized ratably over the contractual period, while training revenue is recognized as the training is provided to the customer. In addition the four revenue recognition criteria described above must be met before service revenue is recognized. 
Multiple element arrangements. 
We use verifiable objective evidence of fair value or vendor-specific objective evidence of fair value for software to allocate revenue to elements in multiple element arrangements. We recognize revenue for delivered elements only when delivered elements have stand alone value, fair value of undelivered elements are known and there are no customer negotiated refund or return rights affecting the revenue recognized for the delivered elements. If the criteria are not met, then revenue is deferred until such criteria are met or until the period(s) over which the last undelivered element is delivered. In the absence of fair value of a delivered element, we allocate revenue to the fair value of the undelivered elements and the residual revenue to the delivered elements. The price charged when an element is sold separately generally determines fair value. 
Deferred revenue. 
Amounts billed or collected in advance of the period in which the related product or service qualifies for revenue recognition are recorded as deferred revenue. 
Accounts receivable, net. 
Trade accounts receivable are recorded at the invoiced amount and do not bear interest. Such accounts receivable has been reduced by an allowance for doubtful accounts, 66 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) which is our best estimate of the amount of probable credit losses in our existing accounts receivable. We determine the allowance based on customer specific experience and the aging of such receivables, among other factors. We do not have any off-balance-sheet credit exposure related to our customers. Accounts receivable are also recorded net of product returns. 
Share-based compensation. 
For the years ended 2008, 2007 and 2006, we accounted for share-based awards made to our employees and directors including employee stock option awards, restricted stock units, employee stock purchases made under our Employee Stock Purchase Plan ("ESPP") and performance share awards under Agilent Technologies, Inc. Long-Term Performance Program ("LTPP") using the estimated grant date fair value method of accounting in accordance with SFAS, No.123 (revised 2004), "Share-Based Payment" ("SFAS No. 123 (R)"), which was effective November 1, 2005 for Agilent. Under the fair value method, we recorded compensation expense in our consolidated statement of operations for share-based awards granted prior to but not yet vested as of November 1, 2005 as if the fair value method required for pro forma disclosure under SFAS No. 123 were in effect for expense recognition purposes. Additionally, we recorded compensation expense using the fair value method for all share-based awards granted after November 1, 2005. We recorded SFAS No. 123 (R) compensation expense of $82 million in 2008, $139 million in 2007 and $94 million in 2006. In 2007, share-based compensation expense included $15 million of incremental net expense associated with the modification of the FY2005 LTPP program. In September 2007 our Board of Directors approved a modification that removed the performance metric from the payout computation for the FY2005 plan only. The modification changed the award payout calculation to be based exclusively on a market performance measure. 
Inventory. 
Inventory is valued at standard cost, which approximates actual cost computed on a first-in, first-out basis, not in excess of market value. We assess the valuation of our inventory on a quarterly basis and periodically write down the value for estimated excess and obsolete inventory based on estimates about future demand. The excess balance determined by this analysis becomes the basis for our excess inventory charge. Our excess inventory review process includes analysis of sales forecasts, managing product rollovers and working with manufacturing to maximize recovery of excess inventory. 
Taxes on income. 
Income tax expense or benefit is based on income or loss before taxes. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized principally for the expected tax consequences of temporary differences between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their reported amounts. 
Warranty. 
Our standard warranty terms typically extend for one year from the date of delivery. We accrue for standard warranty costs in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 5, "Accounting for Contingencies" ("SFAS No. 5"), based on historical trends in warranty charges as a percentage of gross product shipments. The accrual is reviewed regularly and periodically adjusted to reflect changes in warranty cost estimates. Estimated warranty charges are recorded within cost of products at the time products are sold. See Note 15, "Guarantees". 
Shipping and handling costs. 
Our shipping and handling costs charged to customers are included in net revenue, and the associated expense is recorded in cost of products for all periods presented. 
Goodwill and purchased intangible assets. 
Our accounting complies with SFAS No. 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets" ("SFAS No. 142"). Goodwill is not amortized but reviewed 67 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) annually (or more frequently if impairment indicators arise) for impairment. Purchased intangible assets are carried at cost less accumulated amortization. Amortization is computed using the straight-line method over the economic lives of the respective assets, generally three to fifteen years. 
Advertising. 
Advertising costs are expensed as incurred and amounted to $45 million in 2008, $48 million in 2007 and $44 million in 2006 for Agilent continuing operations. 
Research and development. 
To date, costs related to research, design and development of our products are charged to research and development expense as they are incurred. 
Sales Taxes. 
Sales taxes collected from customers and remitted to governmental authorities are not included in our revenue. 
Net income per share. 
Basic net income per share is computed by dividing net income the numerator by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding the denominator during the period excluding the dilutive effect of stock options and other employee stock plans. Diluted net income per share gives effect to all potentially dilutive common stock equivalents outstanding during the period. In computing diluted net income per share under the treasury stock method, the average stock price for the period is used in determining the number of shares assumed to be purchased from the proceeds of stock option exercises. The number of shares assumed to be purchased also considers the amount of unrecognized compensation cost for future service as required under SFAS No. 123 (R). Diluted net income per share for fiscal years 2008, 2007 and 2006 excluded the potentially dilutive effect of 7 million, 5 million and 8 million options to purchase common stock, respectively, as their effect was antidilutive. 
Cash, cash equivalents and short term investments. 
We classify investments as cash equivalents if their original or remaining maturity is three months or less at the date of purchase. Cash equivalents are stated at cost, which approximates fair value. 
Approximately 4 percent of our cash and cash equivalents is held in the U.S., and 42 percent is held in a centrally managed global cash pool outside the U.S. The remainder is held by other Agilent entities throughout the world. Approximately 12 percent of our overall cash and cash equivalents is maintained in demand deposit accounts with global financial institutions of high credit quality and is available to be used in paying and receiving activities. The remainder is invested in institutional money market funds, short-term bank time deposits and similar short duration instruments with fixed maturities from overnight to three months. We continuously monitor the creditworthiness of the financial institutions and institutional money market funds in which we invest our surplus funds. 
We classify investments as short-term investments if their original or remaining maturities are greater than three months and their remaining maturities are one year or less. 
Restricted cash and cash equivalents was $1.6 billion in 2008 and 2007. 
Fair value of financial instruments. 
The carrying values of certain of our financial instruments, including cash and cash equivalents, accrued compensation and other accrued liabilities approximate fair value because of their short maturities. Agilent determines the fair value of short-term investments considering information obtained from independent pricing sources. The fair value of equity investments is determined using quoted market prices for those securities when available. 
68 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Concentration of credit risk. 
Financial instruments that potentially subject Agilent to significant concentration of credit risk include money market fund investments, time deposits, commercial paper and demand deposit balances. These investments are categorized as cash and cash equivalents, restricted cash and short-term and long-term investments. In addition, Agilent has credit risk from derivative financial instruments used in hedging activities and accounts receivable. We invest in a variety of financial instruments and limit the amount of credit exposure with any one financial institution. Credit risk with respect to our accounts receivable is diversified due to the large number of entities comprising our customer base and their dispersion across many different industries and geographies. We have a comprehensive credit policy in place and exposure to credit risk is monitored on an ongoing basis. Credit evaluations are performed on all customers requiring credit over a certain amount and we sell the majority of our products through our direct sales force. Credit risk is mitigated through collateral such as letter of credit, bank guarantees or payment terms like cash in advance. Credit evaluation is performed by an independent team to ensure proper segregation of duties. No single customer accounted for more than 10 percent or more of combined accounts receivable as of October 31, 2008. 
Foreign Exchange Derivative instruments. 
Agilent is exposed to global market exchange rate risks in the normal course of business. We enter into foreign exchange contracts, primarily forward contracts and purchased options, to manage financial exposures resulting from changes in foreign currency exchange rates. In the vast majority of cases, these contracts are designated at inception as hedges of the related foreign currency exposures, which include committed and anticipated revenue and expense transactions and assets and liabilities that are denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the subsidiary, which has the exposure. For option contracts, we exclude time value from the measurement of effectiveness. To achieve hedge accounting, contracts must reduce the foreign currency exchange rate risk otherwise inherent in the amount and duration of the hedged exposures and comply with established risk management policies; hedging contracts generally mature within twelve months. In order to manage foreign currency exposures in a few limited jurisdictions, such as China, we may enter into foreign exchange contracts that do not qualify for hedge accounting under SFAS No. 133 "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities" ("SFAS No. 133"). In such circumstances, the local foreign currency exposure is offset by contracts owned by the parent company. We do not use derivative financial instruments for speculative trading purposes. 
All derivatives are recognized on the balance sheet at their fair values. For derivative instruments that are designated and qualify as a fair value hedge, changes in value of the derivative are recognized in the consolidated statement of operations in the current period, along with the offsetting gain or loss on the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk. For derivative instruments that are designated and qualify as a cash flow or net investment hedge, changes in the value of the effective portion of the derivative instrument is recognized in accumulated comprehensive income, a component of stockholders' equity. Amounts associated with cash flow hedges are reclassified and recognized in income when either the forecasted transaction occurs or it becomes probable the forecasted transaction will not occur. Amounts associated with net investment hedges are recognized only when the subsidiary is sold or liquidated. Derivatives not designated as hedging instruments under SFAS No. 133 are recorded on the balance sheet at their fair value and changes in the fair values are recorded in the income statement in the current period. The fair values of derivatives held on the balance sheet as of October 31, 2008 were $95 million other accrued liabilities and $8 million other current assets. The fair values of derivatives held on the balance sheet as of October 31, 2007 were $9 million other accrued liabilities and $20 million other current assets. Changes in the fair value of the ineffective 69 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) portion of derivative instruments are recognized in earnings in the current period. Ineffectiveness in 2008, 2007 and 2006 was not significant. 
We may also, from time to time, acquire warrants or other equity types of securities to purchase securities of other companies as part of strategic relationships. 
Property, plant and equipment. 
Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation. Additions, improvements and major renewals are capitalized; maintenance, repairs and minor renewals are expensed as incurred. When assets are retired or disposed of, the assets and related accumulated depreciation and amortization are removed from our general ledger, and the resulting gain or loss is reflected in the consolidated statement of operations. Buildings and improvements are depreciated over the lesser of their useful lives or the remaining term of the lease and machinery and equipment over three to ten years. We currently use the straight-line method to depreciate assets. 
Leases. 
We lease buildings, machinery and equipment under operating leases for original terms ranging generally from one to twenty years. Certain leases contain renewal options for periods up to twenty years. These operating leases are accounted for in accordance with SFAS No. 13, "Accounting for Leases." Capitalized software. 
We capitalize certain internal and external costs incurred to acquire or create internal use software in accordance with AICPA Statement of Position 98-1, "Accounting for the Costs of Computer Software Developed or Obtained for Internal Use". Capitalized software is included in property, plant and equipment and is depreciated over three to five years once development is complete. 
Impairment of long-lived assets. 
We continually monitor events and changes in circumstances that could indicate carrying amounts of long-lived assets, including intangible assets, may not be recoverable. When such events or changes in circumstances occur, we assess the recoverability of long-lived assets by determining whether the carrying value of such assets will be recovered through undiscounted expected future cash flows. If the total of the undiscounted future cash flows is less than the carrying amount of those assets, we recognize an impairment loss based on the excess of the carrying amount over the fair value of the assets. 
Employee compensation and benefits. 
Amounts owed to employees, such as accrued salary, bonuses and vacation benefits are accounted for within employee compensation and benefits. The total amount of accrued vacation benefit was $134 million as of October 31, 2008 and $147 million as of October 31, 2007. 
Foreign currency translation. 
We follow SFAS No. 52, "Foreign Currency Translation", for both the translation and remeasurement of balance sheet and income statement items into U.S. dollars. For those subsidiaries that operate in a local currency functional environment, all assets and liabilities are translated into U.S. dollars using current exchange rates; revenue and expenses are translated using monthly exchange rates which approximate to average exchange rates in effect during each period. Resulting translation adjustments are reported as a separate component of accumulated comprehensive income (loss) in stockholders' equity. The cumulative translation adjustment balance at October 31, 2008 and 2007 was an unrealized gain of $232 million and $357 million, respectively. 
70 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) For those subsidiaries that operate in a U.S. dollar functional environment, foreign currency assets and liabilities are remeasured into U.S. dollars at current exchange rates except for nonmonetary assets and capital accounts which are remeasured at historical exchange rates. Revenue and expenses are generally remeasured at monthly exchange rates which approximate average exchange rates in effect during each period. Gains or losses from foreign currency remeasurement are included in consolidated net income. Net gains or losses resulting from foreign currency transactions, including hedging gains and losses, are reported in other income, net and were $4 million net gain, $17 million net loss and $2 million net loss for fiscal years 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. 
2. New Accounting Pronouncements In September 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued SFAS No. 157, " Fair Value Measurements" ("SFAS No. 157"). SFAS No. 157 defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value in accordance with U.S. GAAP, and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. SFAS No. 157 does not require any new fair value measurements; rather, it applies to other accounting pronouncements that require or permit fair value measurements. In February 2008, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position ("FSP") No. 157-2, "Effective Date of FASB Statement No. 157" ("FSP No. 157-2"). FSP No. 157-2 delays the effective date of SFAS No. 157 for nonfinancial assets and nonfinancial liabilities, except for certain items that are recognized or disclosed at fair value in the financial statements on a recurring basis (at least annually). We are required to apply the provisions of SFAS No. 157 to financial assets and liabilities prospectively as of November 1, 2008. We do not believe its adoption will materially impact our future results of operations or financial position. We will be required to apply the provisions of SFAS No. 157 to nonfinancial assets and nonfinancial liabilities as of November 1, 2009 and are currently evaluating the impact of the application of SFAS No. 157 as it pertains to these items. 
On October 31, 2007, the company adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 158, "Employers' Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106, and 132 (R)" ("SFAS No. 158"). This standard requires recognition of the overfunded or underfunded status of each plan as an asset or liability in the consolidated balance sheet with the offsetting change in that funded status to accumulated other comprehensive income. Upon adoption, this standard requires immediate recognition in accumulated other comprehensive income of actuarial gains/losses and prior service costs/benefits both of which were previously unrecognized. Additional minimum pension liabilities and related intangible assets are eliminated upon adoption of the new standard. As required by SFAS No. 158, the company will move the measurement date for our non-U.S. plans from September 30 to October 31 effective October 31, 2009. Based on the evaluation to date, we do not believe the adoption of the measurement date provisions of SFAS 158 will have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. 
In February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 159, "The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities including an amendment of FAS 115" ("SFAS No. 159"). SFAS No. 159 allows companies to choose, at specified election dates, to measure eligible financial assets and liabilities at fair value that are not otherwise required to be measured at fair value. Unrealized gains and losses shall be reported on items for which the fair value option has been elected in earnings at each subsequent reporting date. SFAS No. 159 also establishes presentation and disclosure requirements. SFAS No. 159 is effective for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007 and will be applied prospectively. We do not plan to elect to re-measure any of our existing financial assets or liabilities under the provisions of this standard. 
71 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) In June 2006, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation No. 48, "Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109" ("FIN No. 48"). FIN No. 48 defines the threshold for recognizing the benefits of tax return positions in the financial statements as "more-likely-than-not" to be sustained by the taxing authority and provides guidance on the derecognition, measurement and classification of income tax uncertainties, along with any related interest and penalties. FIN No. 48 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2006, and was effective for Agilent on November 1, 2007. See Note 7, "Provision for Taxes", for additional information, including the effects of adoption on our consolidated financial statements. 
In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141R, "Business Combinations" ("SFAS No. 141R"). SFAS No. 141R amends SFAS 141 and provides revised guidance for recognizing and measuring identifiable assets and goodwill acquired, liabilities assumed, and any noncontrolling interest in the acquiree. It also provides disclosure requirements to enable users of the financial statements to evaluate the nature and financial effects of the business combination. It is effective for fiscal years beginning on or after December 15, 2008 and will be applied prospectively. We are currently evaluating the impact of adopting SFAS No. 141R on our consolidated financial statements. 
In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 160, "Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements an amendment of ARB No. 51" ("SFAS No. 160"). SFAS No. 160 requires that ownership interests in subsidiaries held by parties other than the parent, and the amount of consolidated net income, be clearly identified, labeled, and presented in the consolidated financial statements. It also requires once a subsidiary is deconsolidated, any retained noncontrolling equity investment in the former subsidiary be initially measured at fair value. Sufficient disclosures are required to clearly identify and distinguish between the interests of the parent and the interests of the noncontrolling owners. It is effective for fiscal years beginning on or after December 15, 2008 and requires retroactive adoption of the presentation and disclosure requirements for existing minority interests. All other requirements shall be applied prospectively. We are currently evaluating the impact of adopting SFAS No. 160 on our consolidated financial statements. 
In March 2008, the FASB issued SFAS No. 161, "Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities an amendment of FASB Statement No. 133", ("SFAS No. 161"), which requires additional disclosures about objectives and strategies for using derivative instruments, how the derivative instruments and related hedged items are accounted for under SFAS No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities", and related interpretations, and how the derivative instruments and related hedged items affect our financial statements. SFAS No. 161 also requires disclosures about credit risk-related contingent features in derivative agreements. SFAS No. 161 is effective for fiscal years and interim periods beginning after November 15, 2008 and will be applied prospectively. We are currently evaluating the impact of SFAS No. 161 on our consolidated financial statements. 
3. Share-Based Compensation Effective November 1, 2005, Agilent adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 123 (R) which requires the measurement and recognition of compensation expense for all share-based payment awards made to our employees and directors including employee stock option awards, restricted stock units, employee stock purchases made under our ESPP and performance share awards granted to selected members of our senior management under the LTPP based on estimated fair values. Agilent previously 72 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) applied the provisions of APB No. 25 and related Interpretations and provided the required pro forma disclosures under SFAS No. 123, "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation," ("SFAS No. 123"). 
Description of Share-Based Plans Employee stock purchase plan. 
Effective November 1, 2000, we adopted the ESPP. Under the provisions of the ESPP, eligible employees may contribute up to ten percent of their base compensation to purchase shares of our common stock at 85 percent of the lower of the fair market value at the entry date or the purchase date as defined by the ESPP. The ESPP has a maximum contractual term of two years. As of October 31, 2008, the number of shares of common stock authorized and available for issuance under our ESPP was 26,222,236. Shares authorized for issuance in connection with the ESPP are subject to an automatic annual increase of the lesser of one percent of the outstanding common stock of Agilent or an amount determined by the Compensation Committee of our Board of Directors. Under the terms of the ESPP, in no event shall the number of shares issued under the ESPP exceed 75 million shares. Effective November 1, 2008, the Compensation Committee of Board of Directors approved a change to our ESPP that eliminates the 24-month look back period. The ESPP will continue to allow eligible employees to purchase shares of our common stock at 85 percent of the purchase price, but will only use the purchase date to establish the fair market value. 
Incentive compensation plans. 
On September 17, 1999, we adopted the Agilent Technologies, Inc. 1999 Stock Plan (the "Stock Plan") and subsequently reserved 67,800,000 shares of our common stock for issuance under the Stock Plan. In addition, on May 31, 2000, 19,000,000 shares of our common stock were registered pursuant to converted stock options previously granted by HP. In February 2001, our stockholders approved an additional 45,000,000 shares of our common stock for issuance under the Stock Plan. These shares were subsequently registered in May 2002. At October 31, 2008, shares available for option and restricted stock grants were 34,315,282. 
Stock options, restricted stock units, stock appreciation rights and performance stock awards may be granted under the Stock Plan. Options granted under the Stock Plan may be either "incentive stock options", as defined in Section 422 of the Internal Revenue Code, or non-statutory. Options generally vest at a rate of 25 percent per year over a period of four years from the date of grant and generally have a maximum contractual term of ten years. The exercise price for stock options is generally not less than 100 percent of the fair market value of our common stock on the date the stock award is granted. 
On March 4, 2003, our stockholders approved an amendment to the Stock Plan. The amendment permitted the company to offer a one-time exchange of options issued under the Stock Plan having an exercise price greater than $25 for a lesser number of options to be granted at least six months and one day from the cancellation of surrendered options (the "Option Exchange Program"). On May 20, 2003, we implemented the Option Exchange Program by filing a Tender Offer Statement with the SEC, which allowed eligible employees a one-time opportunity to exchange options to purchase shares of the company's common stock, whether vested or unvested, which were granted under our Stock Plan, with exercise prices greater than $25 per share. The Option Exchange Program was offered from May 20, 2003 to June 18, 2003 and options to purchase approximately 26 million shares were exchanged, with an average exercise price of $51. As a result, the company issued options to purchase approximately 13.8 million shares at a weighted-average exercise price of $28 per share during the first quarter of 2004. As a result of the SFAS No. 123 (R) adoption, in fiscal year ended 2006, we recognized a 73 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) remaining amount of approximately $3 million in our consolidated statement of operations for the issuance of these replacement options. 
Effective November 1, 2003, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors approved the LTPP, which is a performance stock award program under the Stock Plan, for the company's executive officers and other key employees. Participants in this program are entitled to receive unrestricted shares of the company's stock after the end of a three-year period, if specified performance targets are met. The maximum contractual term for awards under the LTPP program is three years. The following table summarizes the shares approved by the Compensation Committee to be issued under the LTPP: In all cases, the final award may vary from zero to 200 percent of the target award as it is based on certain performance metrics. We consider the dilutive impact of this program in our diluted net income per share calculation only to the extent that the performance conditions are met. 
In March 2007, we began to issue restricted stock units under the Stock Plan. The estimated fair value of the restricted stock unit awards was determined based on the market price of Agilent's common stock on the date of grant. Restricted stock units generally vest at a rate of 25 percent per year over a period of four years from the date of grant. 
Impact of SFAS No. 123 (R) Agilent adopted SFAS No. 123 (R) using the modified prospective transition method beginning November 1, 2005. Accordingly, in 2006, we recorded share-based compensation expense for awards granted prior to but not yet vested as of November 1, 2005 as if the fair value method required for pro forma disclosure under SFAS No. 123 were in effect for expense recognition purposes adjusted for estimated forfeitures. The effect of forfeitures on the unamortized compensation expense of pre-adoption awards was not material. For these awards, we have continued to recognize compensation expense using the accelerated amortization method under FASB Interpretation No. 28 "Accounting for Stock Appreciation Rights and Other Variable Stock Option or Award Plans an interpretation of APB Opinions No. 15 and 25". For share-based awards granted after November 1, 2005 we have recognized compensation expense based on the estimated grant date fair value method required under SFAS No. 123 (R). For these awards we have recognized compensation expense using a straight-line amortization method. As SFAS No. 123 (R) requires that share-based compensation expense be based on awards that are ultimately expected to vest, estimated share-based compensation has been reduced for estimated forfeitures. 
74 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) The impact on our results for share-based compensation was as follows: At October 31, 2008 there was no share-based compensation capitalized within inventory as the amount would have been zero. Income tax benefit recognized in 2008, 2007 and 2006 in the statement of operations for share-based compensation was zero. The weighted average grant date fair value of options, as determined under SFAS No. 123 (R), granted in 2008, 2007 and 2006 was $12.01, $10.98 and $10.46 per share, respectively. 
Included in the 2007 share-based compensation expense amount of $139 million is $6 million of expense related to the FY2004 LTPP program. During 2007, we received the final performance results of our FY2004 LTPP program which ended on October 31, 2006. The results indicated that we exceeded our specified performance targets. Consequently, we recorded incremental expense to reflect this program's performance results. In addition, in 2007, we recorded $4 million of expense for the acceleration of unvested awards related to the separation of a senior executive. 
In 2007, share-based compensation expense included $15 million of incremental net expense associated with the modification of the FY2005 LTPP program. In September 2007, our Board of Directors approved a modification that removed the performance metric from the payout computation for the FY2005 program only which ended on October 31, 2007. The modification changed the award payout calculation to be based exclusively on the market metric. The number of shares awarded under the FY2005 LTPP program was 200 percent of the target award. 
Included in income from and gain on sale of discontinued operations of our semiconductor products business and recorded under the provisions of SFAS No. 123 (R) for the fiscal year ended 2006 was approximately $3 million of share-based compensation expense in connection with the 2005 modification to the terms of the options held by employees of our divested semiconductor products business. 
Included in income from discontinued operations of our semiconductor test solutions business and recorded under the provisions of SFAS No. 123 (R) for fiscal year ended 2006 was $9 million of share-based compensation expense for Agilent options held by Verigy employees and $2 million of new Verigy awards that were issued prior to the final distribution of Verigy shares by Agilent. As a result of the final distribution of Verigy shares by Agilent which took place on October 31, 2006, non-vested Agilent stock options held by Verigy employees were cancelled. Vested Agilent stock options held by Verigy employees received a period of up to three months in which to exercise the Agilent options before such options were cancelled. Retirement eligible Verigy employees received a period of up to three years in which to exercise the Agilent options before such options will be cancelled. To the extent 75 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) that the Agilent options were not vested as of the distribution date, Verigy issued replacement Verigy awards. 
Valuation Assumptions For all periods presented, the fair value of share-based awards for employee stock option awards and employee stock purchases made under our ESPP was estimated using the Black-Scholes option pricing model. For all periods presented, shares granted under the LTPP were valued using a Monte Carlo simulation. The estimated fair value of restricted stock unit awards was determined based on the market price of Agilent's common stock on the date of grant. 
The assumptions used to estimate the fair value of employee stock options granted, ESPP purchases and the LTPP were as follows: Both the Black-Scholes and Monte Carlo simulation fair value models require the use of highly subjective and complex assumptions, including the option's expected life and the price volatility of the underlying stock. The expected stock price volatility assumption was determined using the implied volatility of Agilent's publicly traded, similarly priced, stock options. We consider several factors in estimating the expected life of our options granted, including the expected lives used by a peer group of companies and the historical option exercise behavior of our employees, which we believe are representative of future behavior. We have determined that implied volatility is more reflective of market conditions and a better indicator of expected volatility than a combined method of determining volatility. 
In the first quarter of 2007, we revised our estimate of the expected life of our employee stock options. In revising this estimate, we considered several factors, including the expected lives used by a peer group of companies and the historical option exercise behavior of our employees. In the first quarter of 2008, we granted the majority of our employee stock options to executive employees and the 76 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) review of our data indicated that our executive employees, on average, exercise their options at 4.6 years. 
Under the anti-dilution provision of the 1999 Stock Plan, on November 1, 2006, Agilent adjusted the exercise price downward and number of option shares upward for each outstanding employee stock option to preserve the value of the options after the Verigy spin-off. The impact of the adjusted exercise price and number of options has been reflected in our disclosures as of November 1, 2006. 
Share-Based Payment Award Activity Employee Stock Options The following table summarizes employee stock option award activity made to our employees and directors for 2008: The plan shares expired per the above table represent cancelled options granted under the HP stock option plan that are not added back to our available for grant options. 
Forfeited and expired options in 2008 were as follows: 77 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) The options outstanding and exercisable for equity share-based payment awards at October 31, 2008 were as follows: The aggregate intrinsic value in the table above represents the total pre-tax intrinsic value, based on the company's closing stock price of $22.19 at October 31, 2008, which would have been received by award holders had all award holders exercised their awards that were in-the-money as of that date. The total number of in-the-money awards exercisable at October 31, 2008 was approximately 7 million. 
The following table summarizes the aggregate intrinsic value of options exercised and the fair value of options granted in 2008, 2007 and 2006: The amount of cash received from the exercise of share-based awards granted was $211 million in 2008, $375 million in 2007 and $547 million in 2006. See Note 7, "Provision (Benefit) for Income Taxes from Continuing Operations" for the tax impact on share-based award exercises. 
78 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Non-vested Awards The following table summarizes non-vested award activity in 2008 primarily for our LTPP and restricted stock unit awards: As of October 31, 2008, the unrecognized share-based compensation costs for non-vested restricted stock awards, net of expected forfeitures, was approximately $59 million which is expected to be amortized over a weighted-average period of 2.5 years. The total fair value of restricted stock awards vested was $40 million for 2008, $41 million for 2007 and zero for 2006. 
4. Discontinued Operations of Our Semiconductor Products Business On December 1, 2005, we completed the divestiture of our semiconductor products business to Avago Technologies Ltd. ("Avago"). Our consolidated financial statements and footnotes for all periods presented reflect the semiconductor products business as a discontinued operation in accordance with SFAS No. 144, "Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets." Under the terms of the Asset Purchase Agreement ("APA"), Agilent received approximately $2,559 million in cash proceeds. The key components of the gain from sale of discontinued operations, net of taxes for the year ended October 31, 2006 were as follows: Subsequent to the quarter ended January 31, 2006, we adjusted the gain on sale of discontinued operations by $23 million which includes $21 million for working capital and other adjustments and $2 million for the disposal of fixed assets. The $36 million costs of disposition are reported net of a gain of $51 million for pension curtailments and settlements. The tax impact of the sale of our semiconductor products business reflects the utilization of the valuation allowance within the U.S. and a low effective tax rate in other jurisdictions. 
79 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) The following table summarizes results from discontinued operations of our semiconductor products business for the year ended October 31, 2006 included in the consolidated statement of operations: Indemnifications by the company to Avago are detailed in Note 15, "Guarantees". 
5. Discontinued Operations of Our Semiconductor Test Solutions Business On August 15, 2005, Agilent announced its intention to separate its semiconductor test solutions business, Verigy, into a stand-alone publicly traded company. During the third quarter of fiscal 2006, Verigy completed the initial public offering ("IPO") of 8.7 million of its ordinary shares at a price of $15 per share for total net proceeds of $121 million. As part of the offering, Agilent made a payment to Verigy of $19 million, the amount by which the net IPO proceeds were insufficient to complete the agreed-upon Verigy initial capitalization of $140 million. Following the offering, Agilent owned approximately 50 million shares or 85 percent of Verigy's ordinary shares. As a result of the IPO, Agilent recorded additional paid-in capital of $74 million related to the excess of the IPO price over the book value of the shares sold. Underwriter fees related to the IPO were approximately $9 million which were netted against the proceeds. Agilent recorded direct IPO costs of $2 million within operating expenses related to third-party legal fees, filing fees and other services. 
On October 31, 2006, Agilent completed the spin-off of Verigy by distributing its remaining 85 percent equity interest in Verigy to Agilent stockholders. The spin-off was effected by way of a pro rata non-cash dividend to Agilent stockholders, which reduced retained earnings by $310 million. In the distribution, Agilent distributed to its stockholders .122435 of an ordinary share of Verigy for each outstanding share of Agilent common stock owned as of close of market on October 16, 2006. In the aggregate, Agilent distributed 50 million Verigy ordinary shares to Agilent stockholders. Based on the closing price for Verigy ordinary shares on the NASDAQ Global Select Market on October 31, 2006 of $16.80 per share, the aggregate market value of the shares distributed in the distribution was approximately $840 million. Our consolidated financial statements and footnotes for all periods presented reflect Verigy as a discontinued operation through the spin-off date. 
80 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) The following table summarizes results from discontinued operations of our semiconductor test solutions business for the year ended October 31, 2006 included in the consolidated statement of operations: Indemnifications by the company to Verigy are detailed in Note 15, "Guarantees". 
6. Equity in Net Income of Unconsolidated Affiliate and Gain on Sale Lumileds Lumileds Lighting International, B.V. ("Lumileds"), was a global joint venture between Agilent and Koninklijke Philips Electronics N.V. ("Philips") under a Second Amended and Restated Joint Venture Agreement (the "Joint Venture Agreement"), dated as of November 29, 2004, between Agilent and Philips. Lumileds manufactures high-power light emitting diodes and solid-state lighting solutions. Our ownership interest in Lumileds was approximately 47 percent as of October 31, 2005, after selling 1 percent of our interest to Philips in the second quarter of 2005. Our equity in the net income of our unconsolidated affiliate including the gain on sale of our interest in Lumileds was $901 million in 2006. 
On November 28, 2005, we completed the sale of our ownership in Lumileds. Pursuant to the Share Purchase Agreement, upon closure of the sale transaction, the Joint Venture Agreement and the ancillary agreements were terminated. The purchase price paid by Philips under the Share Purchase Agreement was $949 million. In addition, Lumileds repaid the $51 million of outstanding principal debt and accrued interest due to us as of the date of sale under the Credit Agreement, dated as of November 30, 2001. 
The components of the gain from sale of Lumileds, net of income tax are shown in the table below: The tax impact of the sale of our Lumileds joint venture primarily reflected the utilization of valuation allowances within the U.S. 
81 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 7. Provision (Benefit) For Income Taxes From Continuing Operations The provision (benefit) for income taxes from continuing operations is comprised of: The income tax provisions do not reflect potential future tax savings resulting from excess deductions associated with our various share-based award plans. 
The significant components of deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities included on the consolidated balance sheet are: 82 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) The breakdown between current and long-term deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities was as follows for the years 2008 and 2007: The consolidated balance sheet reflects the allocation of the valuation allowance based on the pro-rata portion of gross current and non-current deferred tax assets in each jurisdiction where a valuation allowance is required. During 2003, we established valuation allowances for the deferred tax assets of the U.S. and certain entities in foreign jurisdictions. The valuation allowances were determined in accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 109, "Accounting for Income Taxes" ("SFAS No. 109"), which require an assessment of both positive and negative evidence when determining whether it is more likely than not that deferred tax assets are recoverable. Such assessment is required on a jurisdiction-by-jurisdiction basis. During 2007, we concluded that it is more likely than not that a significant portion of our U.S. federal deferred tax assets would be realized and reversed a portion of the valuation allowance. During 2008, we maintained a partial U.S. federal valuation allowance and concluded that a significant portion of our U.S. state deferred tax assets would be realized and reversed a portion of the valuation allowance. The valuation allowance increased substantially as a result of changes to other comprehensive income-related taxes for pensions, certain mark to market investments, currency translation adjustments and an increase in the amount of foreign tax credits. Cumulative losses incurred by certain entities in foreign jurisdictions in recent years represent sufficient negative evidence to require maintaining full valuation allowances. During 2008, we established a partial valuation allowance for the deferred tax assets of one foreign entity. We intend to maintain partial or full valuation allowances until sufficient positive evidence exists to support reversal of a valuation allowance in a given taxing jurisdiction. 
At October 31, 2008, we had federal net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $28 million and tax credit carryforwards of approximately $148 million. The federal net operating losses expire in years beginning 2010 through 2026, and the federal tax credits expire in 2019, if not utilized. At October 31, 2008, we had state net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $7 million which expire in years beginning 2013 through 2028, if not utilized. In addition, we had state tax credit carryforwards of $44 million that do not expire. All of the federal and some of the state net operating loss carryforwards are subject to change of ownership limitations provided by the Internal Revenue Code and similar state provisions. These annual loss limitations may result in the expiration or reduced utilization of the net operating losses. At October 31, 2008, we also had foreign net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $518 million. Of this foreign loss, $281 million will expire in years beginning 2010 through 2016, if not utilized. The remaining $237 million has an indefinite life. Some of the foreign losses are subject to annual loss limitation rules. 
83 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) SFAS 123 (R) prohibits recognition of a deferred tax asset for excess tax benefits related to stock and stock option plans that have not yet been realized through reduction in income taxes payable. Such unrecognized deferred tax benefits totaled $147 million as of October 31, 2008 and will be accounted for as a credit to shareholders' equity, if and when realized through a reduction in income taxes payable. 
The differences between the U.S. federal statutory income tax rate and our effective tax rate from continuing operations are: The domestic and foreign components of income (loss) earnings from continuing operations before taxes are: The income tax provision for 2008 includes a beneficial release of a portion of the U.S. federal and state valuation allowances which results in U.S. tax expense of nearly zero. It also includes tax on earnings in other jurisdictions that have low effective tax rates. Without considering interest and penalties, the provision for taxes was recorded for income generated in jurisdictions other than the Netherlands, Puerto Rico, Switzerland, the U.S., and the U.K. where we have recorded valuation allowances. We intend to maintain partial or full valuation allowances in these jurisdictions until sufficient positive evidence exists to support the reversal of the valuation allowances. 
The income tax provision for 2007 includes a benefit of $31 million related to valuation allowance adjustments based on changes in other comprehensive income items, portions of which are attributable to increases in currency translation adjustments and to increases in the value of certain stock investments. In addition, the tax rate includes benefits totaling $73 million related to the resolution of primarily non-U.S. tax issues associated with the 2000 spin-off of Agilent from Hewlett-Packard. 
84 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) The income tax provision for 2006 includes a benefit of $29 million related to the resolution of domestic tax-related issues for years covered by a Tax Sharing Agreement between Agilent and Hewlett-Packard. The Tax Sharing Agreement is related to the 2000 spin-off of Agilent from Hewlett-Packard. 
Agilent records U.S. income taxes on the undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries unless the subsidiaries' earnings are considered permanently reinvested outside the U.S. As of October 31, 2008, the cumulative amount of undistributed earnings considered permanently reinvested is $2,851 million. The determination of the unrecognized deferred tax liability on these earnings is not practicable. If management decides to remit these permanently reinvested earnings to the U.S. in a future period, our provision for income taxes may increase materially in that period. 
Agilent enjoys tax holidays in several different jurisdictions, most significantly in Singapore, Malaysia and Switzerland. The tax holidays provide lower rates of taxation on certain classes of income and require various thresholds of investments and employment in those jurisdictions. During the years 2000 through 2008, Agilent enjoyed tax holidays that applied to manufacturing income generated in Malaysia and Singapore. The tax holiday in Malaysia expires in 2010. In Singapore, three holidays have now expired. However, all are currently being renegotiated. In 2004, Agilent secured a reduced tax rate in Switzerland for income generated from activity that Agilent began in Switzerland during that year. The tax holiday expires in 2013. Also in 2004, Agilent secured an additional Singapore tax holiday for earnings from investments and related activity that began in 2004. The tax holiday applies to applicable earnings of Agilent until the end of 2013, with the opportunity for a reduced rate thereafter. 
As a result of the incentives, the impact of the tax holidays decreased income taxes by $112 million, $190 million and $76 million in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The benefit of the tax holidays on net income per share (diluted) was approximately $0.30, $0.47 and $0.17 in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. 
In June 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued FASB Interpretation No. 48, "Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109" ("FIN No. 48"). FIN No. 48 defines the threshold for recognizing the benefits of tax return positions in the financial statements as "more-likely-than-not" to be sustained by the taxing authority and provides guidance on the derecognition, measurement and classification of income tax uncertainties, along with any related interest and penalties. FIN No. 48 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2006, and was effective for Agilent on November 1, 2007. 
As a result of the implementation of FIN No. 48, we increased the liability for net unrecognized tax benefits by $74 million, and accounted for the increase as a cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle that resulted in a decrease to retained earnings of $74 million. The total amount of gross unrecognized tax benefits as of the date of adoption was $915 million. We historically classified unrecognized tax benefits in current taxes payable, or as reductions to tax receivables or net deferred tax assets when appropriate. As a result of adopting FIN No. 48, approximately $355 million of unrecognized tax benefits and related interest and penalties were reclassified to long-term income taxes payable from current taxes payable. As of October 31, 2008, the total gross amount of unrecognized tax benefits, reported in other liabilities, was $946 million. If recognized, the full amount of unrecognized tax benefits of $946 million, would affect our effective tax rate. Any prospective 85 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) adjustments to our reserves for income taxes will be recorded as an increase or decrease to our provision for income taxes and would impact our effective tax rate. 
We continue to include interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits within the provision for income taxes on the consolidated statements of operations. As of October 31, 2008, we accrued and reported $40.3 million of interest and penalties relating to unrecognized tax benefits of which $12.5 million was recognized in 2008. 
A 2008 rollforward of our FIN No. 48 uncertain tax positions including all federal, state and foreign tax jurisdictions is as follows: In the U.S. and other major jurisdictions where we conduct business, the tax years generally remain open back to the year 2000. It is reasonably possible that changes to our unrecognized tax benefits could be significant in the next twelve months due to lapses of statutes of limitation and tax audit settlements. Due to the uncertainty regarding the timing of the completion of tax audits in various jurisdictions and their possible outcomes, an estimate of the range of increase or decrease that could occur in the next twelve months cannot be made. 
Our U.S. federal income tax returns for 2000 through 2002 have been under audit by the Internal Revenue Service ("IRS"). In August 2007, we received a Revenue Agent's Report ("RAR"). In the RAR, the IRS proposes to assess a net tax deficiency, after applying available net operating losses from the years under audit and undisputed tax credits, for those years of approximately $405 million, plus penalties of approximately $160 million and interest. If the IRS were to fully prevail, our net operating loss and tax credits generated in recent years would be utilized earlier than they otherwise would have been, and our annual effective tax rate will have increased as a result. The RAR addresses several issues. One issue, however, relating to the use of Agilent's brand name by our foreign affiliates, accounts for a majority of the claimed tax deficiency. We believe that the claimed IRS adjustment for this issue in particular is inconsistent with applicable tax laws and that we have meritorious defenses to this claim. Therefore, we have not included any tax for this item in our tax provision for 2007 or 2008. We have filed a formal protest and will address these matters with the Appeals Office of the IRS. In the protest, we vigorously opposed the claim associated with Agilent's brand name, and most of the other claimed adjustments proposed in the RAR. In April of 2008, we received a rebuttal to our formal protest, and after reviewing the IRS's arguments, our assessment of the risks remains the same. The final resolution of the proposed adjustments is uncertain and may take several years. Based on current 86 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) information, it is our opinion that the ultimate disposition of these matters is unlikely to have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or liquidity. 
We are subject to ongoing tax examinations of our tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities in various jurisdictions. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. These assessments can require considerable estimates and judgments. If our estimate of income tax liabilities proves to be less than the ultimate assessment, a further charge to expense would be required. If events occur and the payment of these amounts ultimately proves to be unnecessary, the reversal of the liabilities would result in tax benefits being recognized in the period when we determine the liabilities are no longer necessary. 
8. Net Income Per Share The following is a reconciliation of the numerators and denominators of the basic and diluted net income per share computations for the periods presented below. 
The dilutive effect of share-based awards is reflected in diluted net income per share by application of the treasury stock method, which includes consideration of unamortized share- based compensation required by SFAS No. 123 (R). The total number of awards exercised in 2008, 2007 and 2006 were 7 million, 13 million and 19 million, respectively. 
In connection with the October 31, 2006 Verigy distribution, on November 1, 2006 Agilent distributed .122435 of an ordinary share of Verigy for each outstanding share of Agilent common stock owned as of October 16, 2006 to Agilent's stockholders. In addition, under the anti-dilution provision of the 1999 Stock Plan, on November 1, 2006 Agilent adjusted the exercise price downward and number of option shares upward for each outstanding employee stock option to preserve the value of 87 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) the options after the Verigy spin-off. For further details on the distribution see Note 3, "Share-Based Compensation." The following table presents options to purchase shares of common stock, which were not included in the computation of diluted net income per share because they were anti-dilutive. 
9. Supplemental Cash Flow Information Cash paid for income taxes was $210 million in 2008, $86 million in 2007 and $156 million in 2006. Cash paid for interest was $88 million in 2008, $89 million in 2007 and $55 million in 2006. 
10. Inventory Inventory-related excess and obsolescence charges of $24 million, $21 million and $38 million were recorded in total cost of products in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. We record excess and obsolete inventory charges for both inventory on our site as well as inventory at our contract manufacturers and suppliers where we have non-cancelable purchase commitments. 
11. Property, Plant and Equipment, Net 88 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Asset impairments other than restructuring were $1 million in 2008 and 2007 and zero in 2006. Depreciation expenses for continuing operations were $126 million in 2008, $142 million in 2007 and $141 million in 2006. We sold our San Jose site for a total consideration of $88 million and recorded a gain of $56 million during the second quarter of 2006. In May 2006, we completed the sale of our Palo Alto site for a total consideration of $98.5 million and recorded a gain of $65 million. 
12. Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets The goodwill balances at October 31, 2008 and 2007 and the movements in 2008 and 2007 for each of our reportable segments are shown in the table below: The component parts of other intangible assets at October 31, 2008 and 2007 are shown in the table below: We purchased $103 million of other intangibles and recorded $67 million of goodwill during 2008 relating to seven acquisitions and a purchase of the remaining unowned portion of a joint venture. Pro forma disclosures were not required for these acquisitions, as they were not material. 
89 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Amortization of intangible assets was $53 million in 2008, $40 million in 2007, and $24 million in 2006. Future amortization expense related to existing purchased intangible assets is estimated to be $47 million in 2009, $43 million for 2010, $39 million for 2011, $31 million for 2012, $21 million for 2013, and $47 million thereafter. 
On December 18, 2007, we completed the acquisition of Velocity11, a designer, manufacturer and marketer of robotic solutions. The aggregate purchase price was approximately $111 million in cash used to purchase 100 percent of Velocity11's outstanding common shares and vested common stock options that Velocity11 employees held on the closing date of the acquisition. 
Acquisition of Stratagene On June 6, 2007, we completed our acquisition of Stratagene, a leading developer, manufacturer and marketer of specialized life science research and diagnostic products. The aggregate purchase price was approximately $252 million in cash used to purchase 100 percent of Stratagene's outstanding common shares and vested common stock options that Stratagene employees held on the closing date of the acquisition. 
Under the purchase method of accounting, the purchase price of the transaction was allocated to the tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their estimated fair values. In the fourth quarter of 2007 when we finalized our assessment of the pre-acquisition contingencies, we reduced goodwill by $11 million. During 2008, we increased goodwill by $1 million after obtaining more information regarding taxes. 
Based upon the purchase price of the acquisition, the purchase price allocation is as follows: Identifiable intangible assets consist of purchased technology, customer relationships, and trademarks. The useful life was based on the period over which the intangible asset is expected to contribute directly or indirectly to the future cash flows, in accordance with SFAS 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets". 
As part of the merger agreement with Stratagene we entered into an Asset Purchase Agreement with Catalyst LLC ("Catalyst"), a Delaware limited liability company, to sell, transfer, and assign certain intangible and tangible assets to Catalyst on June 7, 2007. Catalyst was formed by the former chairman, CEO and founder of Stratagene to pursue molecular diagnostic applications. We received $7 million in cash for the following: intangible assets, $5 million and tangible assets, $2 million. No gain or loss was recognized on the sale of these assets to Catalyst. 
The results of operations for Stratagene have been included in our consolidated financial statements from the date of acquisition. The financial results of this acquisition are considered 90 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) immaterial for purposes of pro forma financial disclosures. Goodwill recorded as a result of the acquisition of Stratagene is not deductible for tax purposes. 
13. Investments The following table summarizes the company's investments as of October 31, 2008 and 2007 (net book value): Cost method investments consist of non-marketable equity securities and are accounted for at historical cost. Trading securities are reported at fair value, with gains or losses resulting from changes in fair value recognized currently in earnings. Investments designated as available-for-sale are reported at fair value, with unrealized gains and losses, net of tax, included in stockholders' equity. 
In February 2008, Agilent traded an externally managed short-term investment fund for the underlying securities of the investment and now manages those investments internally. The securities received were fixed income debt securities and are held as available-for-sale. Agilent estimated the fair values based on quoted market prices or pricing models using current market rates. These estimated fair values may not be representative of actual values that could have been realized as of October 31, 2008 or that will be realized in the future. 
Investments in available-for-sale securities at estimated fair value were as follows as of October 31, 2008 and October 31, 2007: Other represents shares we own in two special funds that target underlying investments of approximately 40 percent in debt securities and 60 percent in equity securities. 
91 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Contractual maturities of available-for-sale debt securities were as follows at October 31, 2008: All of our investments, excluding trading securities, are subject to periodic impairment review. The impairment analysis requires significant judgment to identify events or circumstances that would likely have significant adverse effect on the future value of the investment. We consider various factors in determining whether an impairment is other-than-temporary, including the severity and duration of the impairment, forecasted recovery, the financial condition and near-term prospects of the investee, and our ability and intent to hold the investment for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery in market value. 
Amounts included in other income (expense) for realized gains and losses on the sale of available-for-sale securities and other than temporary impairments were as follows for the years ended October 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006. 
Unrealized gains and losses on our trading securities portfolio were $15 million of unrealized losses in 2008, $10 million of unrealized gains in 2007 and $6 million of unrealized gains in 2006. 
Realized gains and losses from the sale of cost method securities were zero for 2008, 2007 and 2006. 
14. Retirement Plans and Post Retirement Pension Plans General. 
Substantially all of our employees are covered under various defined benefit and/or defined contribution pension plans. Additionally, we sponsor post-retirement health care benefits and a death benefit under the Agilent Survivor Protection Plan for our eligible U.S. employees. 
Agilent provides U.S. employees, who meet eligibility criteria under the retirement and deferred profit-sharing plans, defined benefits which are generally based on an employee's highest five consecutive years' average pay during the years of employment and on length of service. For eligible service through October 31, 1993, the benefit payable under the Agilent Retirement Plan is reduced by any amounts due to the eligible employee under our defined contribution Deferred Profit-Sharing Plan ("DPSP"), which was closed to new participants as of November 1993. 
92 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) As of October 31, 2008 and 2007, the fair value of plan assets of the DPSP for U.S. Agilent Employees was $520 million and $732 million, respectively. Note that the projected benefit obligation for the DPSP equals the fair value of plan assets. 
Eligible employees outside the U.S. generally receive retirement benefits under various retirement plans based upon factors such as years of service and employee compensation levels. Eligibility is generally determined in accordance with local statutory requirements. Our U.S. retirees who retired prior to January 1, 2005, are also covered by a lump sum death benefit that is part of the Retiree Survivor's Benefit Plan. In July 2004, the Retiree Survivor's Benefit Plan was revised to eliminate the $5,000 Retiree Survivor Benefit for all U.S. retirees who retire on or after January 1, 2005. 
401(k) defined contribution plan. 
Our U.S. eligible employees may participate in the Agilent Technologies, Inc. 401(k) Plan (the "401(k) Plan"). Enrollment in the 401(k) Plan is automatic for employees who meet eligibility requirements unless they decline participation. Under the 401(k) Plan, we provide matching contributions to employees up to a maximum of 4 percent of an employee's annual eligible compensation. The maximum contribution to the 401(k) Plan is 50 percent of an employee's annual eligible compensation, subject to regulatory and plan limitations. The 401(k) Plan expense included in income from continuing operations was $26 million in 2008, $25 million in 2007 and $26 million in 2006. 
Post-retirement medical benefit plans. 
In addition to receiving pension benefits, our U.S. employees who meet retirement eligibility requirements as of their termination dates may participate in our Non-Medicare Medical or Medicare Medical Plans (the "Post-retirement Medical Plans") under the Agilent Health Plan. Current U.S. employees may become eligible for these benefits, and the existing benefit obligation relates primarily to those employees. Once participating in a medical plan, retirees may choose from managed-care and indemnity options, with their contributions dependent on the options chosen and length of service. 
Plan amendments. 
In July 2004, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors approved design changes to Agilent's Post-retirement Medical Plans. One option available to existing post-65 retirees is a new Medicare Supplement Plan in 2005. The Medicare Supplement Plan supplements Medicare coverage by reimbursing Medicare Parts A and B deductibles after Medicare pays its portion of the retiree's expenses. Effective January 1, 2008, the Medicare Supplement Plan reimbursement rate for Medicare Parts A and B deductibles changed from 100 percent to 80 percent. The U.S Post-retirement Benefit Plan was revised for eligible retirees who were less than 50 years of age as of January 1, 2005 and for new hires of any age on or after January 1, 2005. This change established Retiree Medical Accounts with maximum lifetime limits which may be used to reimburse retiree medical premiums. 
Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003. 
In December 2003, the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 ("the Act") was passed which expands Medicare to include an outpatient prescription drug benefit beginning in 2006. In May 2004, the FASB issued FSP 106-2, "Accounting and Disclosure Requirements Related to the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003", which provides guidance on how companies should account for the impact of the Act on its postretirement healthcare plans. Beginning in 2006, the federal government provides a non-taxable subsidy to employers that sponsor prescription drug benefits to retirees that are "actuarially equivalent" to Medicare Part D benefits. We have determined that the prescription drug benefits offered under our plans qualify for this subsidy 93 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) and assuming that we will continue to offer these benefits, we have reflected the expected subsidy according to the guidance in FSP 106-2 prospectively in our financial statements. 
Components of net periodic cost. 
The company uses alternate methods of amortization as allowed by SFAS No. 87 which amortizes the actuarial gains and losses on a consistent basis for the years presented. For U.S. Plans, gains and losses are amortized over the average future working lifetime. For Non-U.S. Plans and U.S. Post-Retirement Benefit Plans, gains and losses are amortized using a separate layer for each year's gains and losses. For the years ended October 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, our net pension and post-retirement benefit costs were comprised of: As of December 1, 2005, due to the divestiture of the semiconductor products business, we recorded curtailments and settlements as required by SFAS No. 88, "Employers' Accounting for Settlements and Curtailments of Defined Benefit Pension Plans and for Termination Benefits," ("SFAS No. 88") and as required under the SFAS No. 106, "Employers' Accounting for Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions," ("SFAS No. 106"). The impact to the U.S. Plans and the U.S. Post Retirement Benefit Plan was curtailment gains of $22 million and $21 million, recorded in discontinued operations. The impact on the Non-U.S. Plans was a settlement gain of $8 million recorded in discontinued operations. 
Due to the separation of our semiconductor test solutions business into a separate legal company, Verigy, as of June 1, 2006, and due to significant workforce reductions, we recorded curtailments and settlements as required by SFAS No. 88 and SFAS No. 106 in the third quarter of 2006. The impact to the U.S. Plans was a curtailment gain of $12 million consisting of curtailment gain of $3 million for continuing operations and curtailment gain of $9 million for discontinued operations as well as a $4 million settlement gain relating to continuing operations. The impact to the U.S. Post Retirement Benefit Plan was a curtailment gain of $12 million for continuing operations. The impact to the Non-U.S. Plans was a curtailment loss of $1 million and a settlement gain of $4 million, that were recorded in discontinued operations. 
94 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) In the U.S., because of additional workforce reductions along with cessation of retiree medical benefits for Verigy employees as of October 31, 2006, we recorded curtailments and settlements as required by SFAS No. 88 and SFAS No. 106 in the fourth quarter of 2006. The impact to the U.S. Plans was curtailment gains of $2 million and a settlement gain of $2 million both of which were for continuing operations. For the U.S. Post Retirement Benefit Plan, we recorded a curtailment gain of $5 million which was for discontinued operations. 
For the U.S. plans, because of lump sum payouts in the first quarter of 2007, we recorded a $1 million settlement gain in accordance with SFAS No. 88. 
Funded status. 
As of October 31, 2008 and 2007, the funded status of the defined benefit and post-retirement benefit plans was: 95 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Adoption of SFAS 158. 
On October 31, 2007, the company adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 158. This standard requires recognition of the overfunded or underfunded status of each plan as an asset or liability in the consolidated balance sheet with the offsetting change in that funded status to accumulated other comprehensive income. Upon adoption, this standard requires immediate recognition in accumulated other comprehensive income of actuarial gains/losses and prior service costs/benefits both of which were previously unrecognized. The statement also requires defined benefit plans to be measured at the fiscal year end. The measurement date requirement will not be effective until fiscal years ending after December 15, 2008 at which point we will adopt this provision of the statement. 
The amounts in accumulated other comprehensive income expected to be recognized as components of net expense during 2009 are as follows: Investment policies and strategies as of October 31, 2008 and 2007. 
Plan assets consist primarily of publicly-traded stocks and bonds. In the U.S., our Agilent Retirement Plan and post-retirement benefit target asset allocation is approximately 80 percent to equities and approximately 20 percent to fixed income investments. Our DPSP target asset allocation is approximately 60 percent to equities and approximately 40 percent to fixed income investments. Approximately 10 percent of our U.S. equity portfolio consists of alternative investments, largely private equity partnerships. The general investment objective for all our plan assets is to obtain the optimum rate of investment return on the total investment portfolio consistent with the assumption of a reasonable level of risk. The safety and protection of principal is a primary concern, and we believe that a well-diversified investment portfolio will result in the highest attainable investment return (income plus capital appreciation) with the lowest overall risk. Specific investment objectives for the plans' portfolios are to: maintain and enhance the purchasing power of the plans' assets; achieve investment returns consistent with the level of risk being taken; and earn performance rates of return in accordance with the benchmarks adopted for each asset class. Outside the U.S., our assets target allocation is from 45 to 60 percent to equities, from 30 to 55 percent to fixed income investments, and from 0 to 10 percent to real estate investments, depending on the plan. All plans' assets are broadly diversified. 
Comment on current market conditions. 
Due to recent significant declines in equity markets, our actual allocations of plan assets at October 31, 2008 differs from the target allocation. Our policy is to bring the actual allocation in line with the target allocation. 
96 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) The table below presents the combined projected benefit obligation ("PBO"), accumulated benefit obligation ("ABO") and fair value of plan assets, grouping plans using comparisons of the PBO and ABO relative to the plan assets as of October 31, 2008 or 2007. 
Contributions and estimated future benefit payments. 
During fiscal year 2009, we expect to contribute $34 million to the U.S. defined benefit plans, $50 million to plans outside the U.S., and zero 97 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) to the Post-retirement Medical Plans. The following table presents expected future benefit payments for the next 10 years. 
Assumptions. 
The assumptions used to determine the benefit obligations and expense for our defined benefit and post-retirement benefit plans are presented in the table below. The expected long-term return on assets below represents an estimate of long-term returns on investment portfolios consisting of a mixture of equities, fixed income and alternative investments in proportion to the asset allocations of each of our plans. We consider long-term rates of return, which are weighted based, on the asset classes (both historical and forecasted) in which we expect our pension and post-retirement funds to be invested. Discount rates reflect the current rate at which pension and post-retirement obligations could be settled based on the measurement dates of the plans October 31 for the U.S. plans and September 30 for the non-U.S. plans. The U.S. discount rates at October 31, 2008 and 2007 were determined by matching the expected plan benefit payments against an industry discount curve as well as reviewing the movement of industry benchmarks. The discount rates at October 31, 2006 were determined based on the results of matching expected plan benefit payments with cash flows from a hypothetically constructed bond portfolio. The non-U.S. rates were generally based on published rates for high-quality corporate bonds. The range of assumptions that were used for the non-U.S. defined benefit plans reflects the different economic environments within various countries. 
Assumptions used to calculate the net periodic cost in each year were as follows: 98 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Assumptions used to calculate the benefit obligation were as follows: Assumed health care trend rates could have a significant effect on the amounts reported for Post-retirement Medical Plans. A one percentage point change in the assumed health care cost trend rates for the year ended October 31, 2008 would have the following effects: 15. Guarantees Standard Warranty A summary of the standard warranty accrual activity is shown in the table below. 
Indemnifications to Avago In connection with the sale of our semiconductor products business in December 2005, we agreed to indemnify Avago, its affiliates and other related parties against certain damages that it might incur in the future. The continuing indemnifications primarily cover damages relating to liabilities of the businesses that Agilent retained and did not transfer to Avago, as well as pre-closing taxes and other specified items. In our opinion, the fair value of these indemnifications was not material as of October 31, 2008. 
99 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Indemnifications to Verigy In connection with the spin-off of Verigy, we agreed to indemnify Verigy and its affiliates against certain damages which it might incur in the future. These indemnifications primarily cover damages relating to liabilities of the businesses that Agilent did not transfer to Verigy, liabilities that might arise under limited portions of Verigy's IPO materials that relate to Agilent, and costs and expenses incurred by Agilent or Verigy to effect the IPO, arising out of the distribution of Agilent's remaining holding in Verigy ordinary shares to Agilent's stockholders, or incurred to effect the separation of the semiconductor test solutions business from Agilent to the extent incurred prior to the separation on June 1, 2006. In our opinion, the fair value of these indemnifications was not material as of October 31, 2008. 
Indemnifications to Hewlett-Packard We have given multiple indemnities to Hewlett-Packard in connection with our activities prior to our spin-off from HP for the businesses that constituted Agilent prior to the spin-off. These indemnifications cover a variety of aspects of our business, including, but not limited to, employee, tax, intellectual property and environmental matters. The agreements containing these indemnifications have been previously disclosed as exhibits to our registration statement on Form S-1 filed on August 16, 1999. In our opinion, the fair value of these indemnifications was not material as of October 31, 2008. 
Indemnifications to Officers and Directors Our corporate by-laws require that we indemnify our officers and directors, as well as those who act as directors and officers of other entities at our request, against expenses, judgments, fines, settlements and other amounts actually and reasonably incurred in connection with any proceedings arising out of their services to Agilent and such other entities, including service with respect to employee benefit plans. In addition, we have entered into separate indemnification agreements with each director and each board-appointed officer of Agilent which provide for indemnification of these directors and officers under similar circumstances and under additional circumstances. The indemnification obligations are more fully described in the by-laws and the indemnification agreements. We purchase standard insurance to cover claims or a portion of the claims made against our directors and officers. Since a maximum obligation is not explicitly stated in our by-laws or in our indemnification agreements and will depend on the facts and circumstances that arise out of any future claims, the overall maximum amount of the obligations cannot be reasonably estimated. Historically, we have not made payments related to these obligations, and the fair value for these obligations was zero on the consolidated balance sheet as of October 31, 2008. 
Other Indemnifications As is customary in our industry and as provided for in local law in the U.S. and other jurisdictions, many of our standard contracts provide remedies to our customers and others with whom we enter into contracts, such as defense, settlement, or payment of judgment for intellectual property claims related to the use of our products. From time to time, we indemnify customers, as well as our suppliers, contractors, lessors, lessees, companies that purchase our businesses or assets and others with whom we enter into contracts, against combinations of loss, expense, or liability arising from various triggering events related to the sale and the use of our products and services, the use of their goods and services, the use of facilities and state of our owned facilities, the state of the assets and businesses that we sell and other matters covered by such contracts, usually up to a specified maximum amount. In 100 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) addition, from time to time we also provide protection to these parties against claims related to undiscovered liabilities, additional product liability or environmental obligations. In our experience, claims made under such indemnifications are rare and the associated estimated fair value of the liability was not material as of October 31, 2008. 
16. Commitments and Contingencies Operating Lease Commitments: We lease certain real and personal property from unrelated third parties under non-cancelable operating leases. Future minimum lease payments under operating leases related to continuing operations at October 31, 2008 were $77 million for 2009, $64 million for 2010, $47 million for 2011, $32 million for 2012, $23 million for 2013 and $44 million thereafter. Future minimum sublease income under leases at October 31, 2008 was $6 million for 2009, $3 million for 2010, $2 million for 2011, $2 million for 2012 and zero thereafter. Certain leases require us to pay property taxes, insurance and routine maintenance, and include escalation clauses. Total rent expense, including charges relating to the consolidation of excess facilities, for continuing operations was $89 million in 2008, $73 million in 2007 and $110 million in 2006. 
We are involved in lawsuits, claims, investigations and proceedings, including patent, commercial and environmental matters. There are no matters pending that we expect to be material in relation to our business, consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 
17. Restructuring and Asset Impairment Our FY2005 Plan, announced in the fourth quarter of 2005, is largely complete. The remaining obligations under this and previous plans relate primarily to lease obligations that are expected to be satisfied over approximately the next three years. 
A summary of the total restructuring activity is shown in the table below: The restructuring accrual for all plans, which totaled $10 million at October 31, 2008 and $32 million at October 31, 2007, is recorded in other accrued liabilities and other long-term liabilities on the consolidated balance sheet and represents estimated future cash outlays. 
In the first quarter of 2008, we reduced our estimated liability relating to the consolidation of excess facilities by $4 million due to changes in the underlying property markets. 
101 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) A summary of the charges/(income) in the statement of operations resulting from all restructuring plans is shown below: 18. Senior Notes In October 2007, the company issued an aggregate principal amount of $600 million in senior notes. The senior notes were issued at 99.60% of their principal amount. The notes will mature on November 1, 2017, bear interest at a fixed rate of 6.50% per annum, payable semi-annually on May 1st and November 1st of each year, commencing on May 1, 2008. The senior notes are unsecured and will rank equally in right of payment with all of Agilent's other senior unsecured indebtedness. The company initially incurred issuance costs of $5 million in connection with the senior notes and recorded them in "Other assets" in the consolidated balance sheet. These debt issuance costs are being amortized to interest expense over the term of the senior notes. 
Upon the closing of the offering of the senior notes, we entered into three interest rate swaps with three different counterparties with an aggregate notional amount of $600 million. Under the interest rate swaps, we received fixed-rate interest payments and were obligated to make payments based on the six month U.S. dollar LIBOR. The economic effect of these swaps was to convert the fixed-rate interest expense on the senior notes to a variable LIBOR-based interest rate. The swaps were accounted for as a fair value hedge of the interest rate risk inherent in the senior notes and therefore the fair value of the swap are recorded on our consolidated balance sheet at each period end until maturity in 2017. In addition, as a result of the fair value hedge, the senior notes were reflected on our consolidated balance sheet at fair value, reflecting the change in their value attributable to interest rate risk. The hedging relationship qualifies for the shortcut method of assessing hedge effectiveness, and consequently we do not expect any ineffectiveness during the life of the swaps and any movement in the value of the swaps would be reflected in the movement in fair value of the senior notes. 
On September 11, 2008 we terminated the contract with one of the counterparties with notional amount of $200 million. Following termination, amounts are due to us from that counterparty and we have assessed the likely recovery of those amounts. Interest rate swaps for the remaining notional amount of $400 million were in effect as of October 31, 2008. At October 31, 2008, the fair value of the remaining swaps was an asset of $13 million. As a result, the carrying value of the senior notes at October 31, 2008 has increased by $13 million to reflect their increased fair value attributable to interest rate risk. As at October 31, 2008 the senior notes are valued at $611million comprising the discounted principal of $598 million and $13 million increase in fair value of the senior notes attributable to interest rate risk. 
102 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) On November 25, 2008, we terminated the two remaining interest rate swap contracts associated with our senior notes that represented the remaining notional amount of $400 million. The asset value upon termination was approximately $43 million. The gain will be deferred and amortized over the remaining life of the senior notes. 
19. Long-Term Debt and Long-Term Restricted Cash & Cash Equivalents The following table summarizes the company's long-term debt as of October 31, 2008: World Trade Debt In January 2006, Agilent Technologies World Trade, Inc., a consolidated wholly owned subsidiary of Agilent ("World Trade"), entered into a five-year Master Repurchase Agreement with a counterparty in which World Trade sold 15,000 Class A preferred shares of Agilent Technologies (Cayco) Limited ("Cayco") to the counterparty, having an aggregate liquidation preference of $1.5 billion. World Trade owns all of the outstanding common shares of Cayco, a separate legal entity. 
Agilent and World Trade have entered into a Related Agreement, dated as of September 22, 2008 (the "Lloyds Related Agreement"), with Lloyds TSB Bank plc ("Lloyds TSB"). Under the Lloyds Related Agreement, Lloyds TSB has agreed that on or prior to November 17, 2008, Lloyds TSB will accept the transfer by novation (the "Novation") of all of the rights and obligations of the counterparty under a revised Master Repurchase Agreement and collectively referred to as the "Current Repurchase Agreement". The counterparty is the current registered owner of the preferred shares. 
The Lloyds Related Agreement required that upon the Novation, Lloyds TSB shall pay $1.5 billion to the counterparty in consideration of the Novation and the Current Repurchase Date shall be extended to January 27, 2011 (the "Extended Repurchase Date"). Following the Novation neither World Trade nor Agilent will have the right to accelerate the Extended Repurchase Date. Lloyds TSB can accelerate the Extended Repurchase Date or cause a redemption of the preferred shares only upon certain events of default. World Trade is obligated to make aggregate quarterly payments to Lloyds TSB at a rate per annum, reset quarterly, with reference to LIBOR plus 175 basis points beginning on November 17, 2008. 
The obligation of World Trade to repurchase the preferred shares from the previous counterparty, Steers Repo Pass-Thru Trust 2008-1, has been extinguished resulting in no gain or loss in the statement of operations. The refinancing of the World Trade obligation has been recorded at a fair value of $1.5 billion and classified as a long-term debt in our consolidated balance sheet. The amortization of debt issuance costs was $17 million for 2008. On November 17, 2008, the novation agreement with Lloyds TSB became effective. 
Other Debt On August 11, 2008 a consolidated wholly-owned subsidiary of Agilent, borrowed Indian Rupees equivalent to $14 million from Citibank N.A. at 12.75 percent per annum interest rate for 5 years, 103 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) maturing on August 9, 2013 to finance a capital project in India. The loan is classified as long-term debt in our consolidated balance sheet. 
Credit Facilities On May 11, 2007, we entered into a five-year credit agreement, which provides for a $300 million unsecured credit facility that will expire on May 11, 2012. The company may use amounts borrowed under the facility for general corporate purposes. As of October 31, 2008 the company has no borrowings outstanding under the facility. 
Long-Term Restricted Cash & Cash Equivalents As of October 31, 2008 and 2007, $1,582 million and $1,615 million were reported as long-term restricted cash and cash equivalents on our consolidated balance sheet, respectively. Of these amounts, as of October 31, 2008 and 2007, are $1,571 million and $1,580 million, respectively, of commercial paper maintained in connection with our World Trade debt obligations per the Repurchase Agreement mentioned above. 
20. Stock Repurchase Program As of October 31, 2008, our Board of Directors authorized stock repurchase programs of up to $8.466 billion of our common stock. As of October 31, 2008, we had repurchased a total of approximately 211 million shares of our common stock for $7.467 billion. In addition, $3 million of service and legal fees were recorded in equity. All such shares and related costs are held as treasury stock and accounted for using the cost method. The remaining amount that is authorized to be repurchased is approximately $1 billion. 
21. Segment Information Description of segments. 
We are a measurement company, providing core bio-analytical and electronic measurement solutions to the communications, electronics, life sciences and chemical analysis industries. During 2006, we completed the divestiture of our semiconductor products business and spin-off of our semiconductor test solutions business. Following this re-organization, Agilent has two businesses bio-analytical measurement and electronic measurement each of which comprises a reportable segment. The segments were determined based primarily on how the chief 104 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) operating decision maker views and evaluates our operations. Other factors, including customer base, homogeneity of products, technology and delivery channels, were also considered in determining our reportable segments. 
A description of our two reportable segments as of October 31, 2008 is as follows: Bio-analytical measurement business provides application-focused solutions that include instruments, software, consumables and services that enable customers to identify, quantify and analyze the physical and biological properties of substances and products. Our key product categories include: gas chromatography, liquid chromatography, mass spectrometry, inductively coupled plasma mass spectroscopy, microfluidics, microarrays, microscopy, laser interferometers, PCR (Polymerase Chain Reaction) instrumentation, laboratory automation and robotics, software and informatics, and related bioreagents, consumables and services. 
 Electronic measurement business provides standard and customized electronic measurement instruments and systems, monitoring, management and optimization tools for communications networks and services, software design tools and related services that are used in the design, development, manufacture, installation, deployment and operation of electronics equipment and communications networks and services. Related services include start-up assistance, instrument productivity and application services and instrument calibration and repair. We also offer customization, consulting and optimization services throughout the customer's product lifecycle. 
A significant portion of the segments' expenses arise from shared services and infrastructure that we have historically provided to the segments in order to realize economies of scale and to efficiently use resources. These expenses, collectively called corporate charges, include costs of centralized research and development, legal, accounting, real estate, insurance services, information technology services, treasury and other corporate infrastructure expenses. Charges are allocated to the segments, and the allocations have been determined on a basis that we considered to be a reasonable reflection of the utilization of services provided to or benefits received by the segments. Corporate charges previously allocated to our semiconductor products business and semiconductor test solutions business, but not classified within discontinued operations, were not reallocated to our other segments. These charges are presented below as a component of the reconciliation between the segments' income from operations and Agilent's income from continuing operations before taxes and equity income and are classified as unallocated semiconductor products business corporate charges and unallocated semiconductor test solutions business corporate charges. 
Upon the adoption of SFAS No. 123 (R) in the first quarter of 2006, we included share-based compensation expense in our GAAP results but did not include such expense in our segment reporting. In the third quarter of 2008, we included share-based compensation expense in our segment results. All segment numbers have been reclassified to conform to the current period presentation. 
The following tables reflect the results of our reportable segments under our management reporting system. The performance of each segment is measured based on several metrics, including adjusted income from operations. These results are used, in part, by the chief operating decision maker in evaluating the performance of, and in allocating resources to, each of the segments. 
105 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) The profitability of each of the segments is measured after excluding restructuring and asset impairment charges, investment gains and losses, interest income, interest expense, non-cash amortization and impairment of other intangibles and other items as noted in the reconciliation below. 
The following table reconciles segment results to Agilent's total enterprise results from continuing operations before taxes and equity income: Major customers. 
No customer represented 10 percent or more of our total net revenue in 2008, 2007 or 2006. 
106 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) The following table presents assets and capital expenditures directly managed by each segment. Unallocated assets primarily consist of cash, cash equivalents, accumulated amortization of other intangibles, the valuation allowance relating to deferred assets and other assets. 
The following table reconciles segment assets to Agilent's total assets: Geographic Information The following table presents summarized information for net revenue and long-lived assets by geographic region for continuing operations. Long lived assets consist of property, plant, and equipment, long-term receivables and other long-term assets excluding intangible assets. The rest of the world primarily consists of Southeast Asia and Europe. 
107 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 22. Subsequent Event On December 12, 2008, Agilent approved a targeted restructuring program. The restructuring program is in response to deteriorating economic conditions and is designed to enhance the potential of some of our businesses to reach their operating model goals. The restructuring program is one of a series of actions being taken by us in response to the current economic situation. 
The focus of the restructuring plan is on the Agilent businesses that have been most severely impacted by the economic downturn. As a result of the restructuring program, we expect that our global workforce will be reduced by approximately 500 regular and 300 temporary positions. The timing and scope of workforce reductions will vary by location based on local legal requirements. We expect to complete a majority of the activities related to the restructuring program by May 31, 2009, with the remainder expected to be completed by October 31, 2009. 
In connection with the restructuring plan, we expect to record in the aggregate approximately $55 million in pre-tax restructuring charges, mostly related to employee severance arrangements. Substantially all the charges will result in future cash expenditures. 
QUARTERLY SUMMARY (Unaudited) 108 Item 9. 
Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure None. 
Item 9A. 
Controls and Procedures Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures Our management has evaluated, under the supervision and with the participation of our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures as of October 31, 2008, pursuant to and as required by Rule 13a-15(b) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act"). Based on that evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have concluded that, as of October 31, 2008, the company's disclosure controls and procedures, as defined by Rule 13a-15(b) under the Exchange Act, were effective and designed to ensure that (i) information required to be disclosed in the company's reports filed under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC's rules and forms, and (ii) information is accumulated and communicated to management, including the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosures. 
Management's Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, as such term is defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(f). Under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, we conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting based on the framework in Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Based on the results of this evaluation, our management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of October 31, 2008. 
The effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of October 31, 2008 has been audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in their report which appears in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 
Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting There were no changes in our internal control over financial reporting that occurred during Agilent's last fiscal quarter that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting. 