http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1090872/000119312504216917/d10k.htm
http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1090872/000119312504216917/d10k.htm
9.436e+12
A
2004-10-31
10-K
A_2004-10-31_10-K.txt

Item 1. 
Business Overview Agilent Technologies, Inc. ( we , Agilent or the company ), incorporated in Delaware in May 1999, is a global diversified technology company that provides enabling solutions to markets within the communications, electronics, life sciences and chemical analysis industries. We have four primary businesses: Prior to our initial public offering of 15.9 percent of our stock in November 1999, we were a wholly-owned subsidiary of Hewlett-Packard Company ( Hewlett-Packard ). Hewlett-Packard distributed the remaining 84.1 percent of our stock to its stockholders on June 2, 2000 in the form of a stock dividend. 
Our test and measurement, automated test and semiconductor products businesses focus on growth opportunities in the communications and electronics industries, while our life sciences and chemical analysis business focuses on growth opportunities in the life sciences industry and in the environmental, chemical, food and petrochemical industries. 
We sell our products primarily through direct sales, but we also utilize distributors, resellers, manufacturer s representatives, telesales and electronic commerce. Of our total net revenue of $7.2 billion for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2004, we generated 31 percent in the United States ( U.S. ) and 69 percent outside the U.S. As of October 31, 2004, we employed approximately 28,000 people worldwide. Our primary research and development ( R&D ) and manufacturing sites are in California, Colorado, Delaware and Washington in the U.S. and in China, Germany, Japan, Malaysia, Singapore and the United Kingdom. 
3 Our net revenue by business segment for each of the years ending October 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002 was: More financial information about our business segments is contained in Note 19, Segment Information, of the consolidated financial statements included in Item 15 of this report. Hewlett-Packard accounted for approximately 4 percent of our total net revenue for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2004, 5 percent for fiscal year 2003 and 8 percent for fiscal year 2002. These figures include items sold to contract manufacturers who manufacture products on Hewlett-Packard s behalf. 
Test and Measurement Business Our test and measurement business provides standard and customized solutions that are used in the design, development, manufacture, installation, deployment and operation of electronics equipment and communications networks and services. These solutions include test and measurement instruments and systems, communications services and network monitoring, management and optimization tools, software design tools and related services. Related services include start-up assistance, instrument productivity and application services and instrument calibration and repair. We also offer customization, consulting and optimization services throughout the customer s product lifecycle. 
Our test and measurement business employed approximately 11,200 people as of October 31, 2004. We sell our test and measurement products through direct sales, distributors, resellers, manufacturer s representatives, telesales and electronic commerce. Our test and measurement business generated $2.9 billion in revenue in fiscal 2004, $2.5 billion in revenue in fiscal 2003 and $2.6 billion in revenue in fiscal 2002. 
Test and Measurement Markets Our test and measurement products compete in two major markets: The Communications Test Market We market our communications test products and services to Network Equipment Manufacturers ( NEMs ) and communications service providers. 
NEMs manufacture and sell products to facilitate the transmission of voice and data traffic, including network and subscriber equipment. This transmission may be in various forms, such as electronic signals over copper wire, optical signals over fiber cables and radio frequency ( RF ) or microwave signals. The NEMs customers are the distributors of end-user subscriber devices, including cell phones and personal digital assistants ( PDAs ), as well as communications service 4 providers that deploy and operate the networks and services. To meet their customers demands, NEMs require test and measurement instruments, systems and solutions for the development, production and installation of each network technology. 
Communications service providers require reliable network equipment that enables their networks and services to operate at ever-faster speeds, permits an expanding capacity and provides quick feedback. To achieve this, communications service providers require a range of sophisticated test instruments and systems to evaluate network performance and to identify any sources of communications failure. 
Agilent s communications service provider customers require advanced software and systems, known as operations support systems ( OSSs ), to monitor and manage the network infrastructure and services on a continuous, proactive basis to achieve either regulated or customer-specified service levels. Real-time monitoring of the network infrastructure also enables the implementation of additional services, such as fraud detection and intercarrier billing, which enable service providers to capture the greatest revenue from network usage. 
The overall market for cellular mobility, specifically in handsets, grew in recent years as the levels of wireless penetration in developed countries have increased. Wireless communications in emerging economies continues to increase. To advance cellular telephone equipment, manufacturers require electronic design automation software, test instruments and systems for the development of wireless devices, high-frequency communications circuits and systems. Cellular equipment manufacturers also require advanced, high-frequency test instruments and systems to develop, manufacture and deploy cellular base stations for these wireless networks. In addition, the rapid expansion of the cellular handset market, coupled with subscriber turnover created by the introduction of new technologies, has fueled growth for automated test equipment to test cellular handsets on the factory floor. Investments continue for advanced R&D verification solutions for 2.5 generation ( G ) and 3G appliance development and network deployment as the demand for complex wireless data networks increases. 
Further, as new standards evolve in the wireless industry, new test and measurement equipment and systems have to be developed to enable testing of the new standards in the research, design and development and later in the manufacturing and deployment phases. An example of this is wireless fidelity ( Wi-Fi ), also called 802.11, for wireless local area networking. Companies are constantly finding applications for wireless technology, and are providing their customers wireless network access in areas called hot spots, such as airports, coffee shops and libraries. As the adoption of these new standards becomes mainstream, additional markets are emerging, including larger companies and their network operators. The use of wireless test and measurement solutions is quickly being adopted by these larger companies to ensure robust quality of service. 
In the last several years, producers of networking communications equipment have increased their use of contract manufacturers. Contract manufacturers require test solutions that are designed for faster production and for use in different applications. Mobile phone and other appliance producers are also increasing their use of contract manufacturers, original design manufacturers and reference design platforms, including using contract manufacturers for functional test. This requires specialized test products and services to address the particular needs of these high-frequency products. 
The General Purpose Test Market We market our general purpose test products and services to the electronics industry. The electronics industry designs, develops and manufactures a wide range of products, including those 5 produced in high volumes, such as computers, computer peripherals, electronic components, consumer electronics, enterprise servers, storage networks and communications devices including PDAs. The components, printed circuit assemblies and functional devices for these products may be designed, developed and manufactured by electronic components companies, by original equipment manufacturers or by contract manufacturers. For the development and timely commercialization of new technologies, manufacturers require state-of-the-art test instruments, systems and software design tools in order to design products for efficient and cost-effective manufacturing and to validate product performance in a variety of configurations and environments. Manufacturers of electronics products require sophisticated test equipment to operate and perform highly accurate tests from design through manufacturing. They also demand automated functional test systems, which test an electronic device as if it were in use in its final environment. Finally, electronics manufacturers require standardized test instruments, system components and complete solutions. 
We also market our general purpose test products to the aerospace and defense industry. Aerospace and defense is an important market for standardized electronic equipment because of the high electronic content of advanced defense systems and defense-related communications and surveillance equipment. We believe that defense purchasers will continue to shift from specialized test equipment to commercial off-the-shelf test products and systems and will continue to require solutions that optimize asset utilization and effective technology lifecycle management. 
Test and Measurement Products Our test and measurement business designs, develops and manufactures test and measurement products and services that range from single-unit electronic measurement devices priced under $1,000 to large scale test systems or OSS solutions priced at $1 million and higher. We divide our test and measurement products into two groups: (1) communications test products and (2) general purpose test products. 
Communications Test Products We sell installation and maintenance solutions and OSS, including monitoring and network management systems, for the following types of communications networks and systems: fiber optics networks, transport networks, broadband and data networks, wireless communications and microwave networks. 
Fiber Optic Network Products. 
Our fiber optic network test products include optical signal instruments, spectrum analysis instruments and lightwave optical systems, such as optical amplifier test, passive component test and jitter test instruments. These items are used by the industry s leading NEMs to develop and manufacture reliable optical components and modules. Our products also include tunable laser sources, multi-wavelength meters, photonic all-parameter testers and high-speed bit-error rate testers that measure key transmission properties of high-speed optical and electrical signals. 
Transport Network Products. 
Our transport network test products, our OmniBER OTN and OmniBER XM network simulators, provide capabilities for testing next generation Synchronous Optical Network/Synchronous Digital Hierarchy ( SONET/SDH ) network equipment. Our N2X multi-service tester combines services testing with carrier-grade infrastructure testing and emulation, and integrates the performance of Router Tester 900, OmniBER XM and SAN Tester. 
Broadband and Data Network Products. 
Our broadband and data network test products include our Network Analyzer and Router Tester 900. Our Network Analyzer product line helps to troubleshoot high-speed local area networks ( LANs ), wide area networks ( WANs ) and asynchronous transfer mode networks. Our Router Tester 900 is the industry leader in core edge router performance verification. 
6 Wireless Communications and Microwave Network Products. 
We design and sell RF and microwave test instruments and Electronic Design Automation ( EDA ) software tools, which assist in the design and production of cellular handsets and base stations, as well as satellite and aerospace defense systems. Examples of our wireless communications products include specialized versions of RF and microwave network analyzers, spectrum analyzers, signal sources, mobile testers, circuit simulation tools and system simulation tools. Agilent also offers solutions for centralized wireless LAN monitoring and network optimization. Our AiRMS solution provides remote monitoring of network performance using a series of remote probes deployed in service vehicles and taxicabs. The Agilent N5250A PNA series millimeter-wave network analyzer has frequency coverage from 10 MHz to 110 GHz in a single sweep. This capability enables engineers and system integrators working at millimeter-wave frequencies to take advantage of additional performance and connectivity, and gives them the ability to characterize 1.0 mm coaxial and on-wafer components, subsystems and systems. 
Installation and Maintenance Solutions. 
Our solutions for installation test enable service providers to install, commission, and activate networks and services more quickly. Agilent has a breadth of solutions for troubleshooting and maintaining optical, wireless, wireline and large-company networks. These solutions include Fiber Break Locator, Network Tester, Optical Time Domain Reflectometers ( OTDR ), Network Troubleshooting Center, and Framescope. We also market bench-top and handheld measurement devices such as lightwave multimeters, power meters and optical sources. 
Operations Support Systems and Services. 
Agilent s OSS focus is to help communications service providers manage their business from a customer-centric perspective so they can understand how problems in network or service performance affect individual subscribers or groups of subscribers. Our integrated OSS solutions reduce software integration costs and enable high-value service-level management functions not possible with stand-alone systems. We offer a number of industry-proven monitoring and management systems, such as acceSS7 for Signaling System 7 networks; NETeXPERT for circuit, packet and hybrid networks; NgN Analysis System for next-generation telephony and Internet offload networks; Wireless Service Manager for wireless services and networks; and Wireless QoS Manager for mobile data services and networks. 
General Purpose Test Products We sell the following types of products into the general purpose test market: general purpose instruments, modular instruments and test software, digital design products and high frequency electronic design tools. 
General Purpose Instruments. 
General purpose test instruments are used principally by engineers in R&D laboratories, manufacturing, calibration and service for measuring voltage, current, frequency, signal pulse width and other standard electronics measurements. Examples of our general purpose test instruments include spectrum analyzers, network analyzers, signal generators, digitizing oscilloscopes, voltmeters, multimeters, frequency counters, bench and system power supplies, function generators and waveform synthesizers. 
Modular Instruments and Test Software. 
Our modular instruments and test software, including instruments incorporating the new LXI standard (LAN eXtensions for Instrumentation) and modular measurement system software, are used to dynamically configure and reconfigure test systems for designers and manufacturers of electronic devices. This allows easy and fast connectivity between instruments and PCs. In addition, release 14 of Agilent s IO Library Suite reduces PC configuration and connect time to less than 15 minutes. Together with major revisions of Agilent VEE (7.0) and the Test & Measurement Programmers Toolkit for Visual Studio (2.0), these products speed test development and reduce the cost of test for our customers. 
7 Digital Design Products. 
Our digital design products range from simple digital control circuits to complex, high-speed servers incorporating the latest microprocessor technology, and include high performance oscilloscopes, logic analyzers, logic-signal sources and data generators. Agilent s 10 to 13 GHz real-time oscilloscopes are the only models in the industry that offer full-bandwidth, 40 GSa/s per channel. When these new scopes are paired with the Agilent InfiniiMax probes of up to 12 GHz, the new system delivers industry-leading performance, accuracy and probing connectivity. This is used by R&D engineers in the computer, communications and semiconductor industries for validating and verifying the performance of new high-speed digital product designs. 
High-Frequency Electronic Design Tools. 
Our high-frequency electronic design automation software tools are used by RF integrated circuit design engineers to model, simulate and analyze communications product designs at the circuit and system levels. The main products in this area are the Advanced Design System (ADS), the RF Design Environment (RFDE) and the IC-CAP Device Modeling Software. Each are well-established software platforms within the wireless and the aerospace and defense design communities. Our customers are also applying this technology more frequently to model signal integrity problems in digital design applications. 
Test and Measurement Customers Agilent s test and measurement customers include the NEMs who design, develop, manufacture and install network equipment, and the service providers who implement, maintain and manage communication networks and services. Many of our customers purchase solutions across several of our major product lines for their different business units. As of the end of fiscal 2004, no single customer represented greater than 10% of the net revenue of the business. 
The orders and revenues of the test and measurement business are somewhat seasonal, with our fourth quarter traditionally bringing larger volumes of business and our first quarter generally showing reduced volumes. This is especially true of products that we sell to the aerospace and defense industry as well as those that are linked to consumer spending, including some of our communications test equipment. However, the seasonal impact is tempered by the diversity of the test and measurement business s products and customers, which span multiple industries. 
Test and Measurement Sales, Marketing and Support We have a focused sales strategy, using a direct sales force, resellers, manufacturer s representatives and distributors to strengthen customer satisfaction. Our direct sales force is focused on identifying customer needs and recommending solutions involving the effective use and deployment of our equipment, services, systems and capabilities. Some members of our direct sales force focus on global accounts, providing uniform services on a worldwide basis. Others focus on our more complex products such as our communications OSS monitoring systems, where customers require intensive strategic consultation. Our sales force also specifically targets the contract manufacturer market by collaborating with original equipment manufacturers to specify that contract manufacturers use our test equipment, as well as marketing to contract manufacturers directly. 
Our direct sales force consists of field engineers and systems engineers who have in-depth knowledge of the customers business and technology needs. Some of our field engineers are account managers for our large accounts, and enhance our understanding of the future needs of these customers. Our systems engineers provide a combination of consulting, systems integration and application and software engineering services, and are instrumental in all stages of the sale, implementation and support of our complex systems and solutions. 
8 To complement our direct sales force we have agreements with many channel partners around the world. These partners, including resellers, manufacturer s representatives, and distributors, serve Agilent s customers across a number of product lines and provide the same level of service and support expected from our direct channel. Our products come with clearly outlined warranties and extended warranties available for an additional cost. 
Test and Measurement Manufacturing We concentrate our test and measurement manufacturing efforts primarily on final assembly and test of our products. To maximize our productivity and our ability to respond to market conditions, we use contract manufacturers for the production of printed circuit boards, sheetmetal fabrication, metal die-casting, plastic molding and standard electronic components. We also manufacture proprietary devices and assemblies, in our own fabrication facilities for competitive advantage. 
We generally only manufacture products when we have received firm orders for delivery, and do not generally hold large stocks of finished inventory. However, due to the large number of components and products we manufacture, we hold relatively large amounts of raw materials. 
Test and Measurement Competition The market for test and measurement equipment is highly competitive, and we expect this competition to increase. Our test and measurement business competes with a number of significant competitors in all our major product categories and across our targeted industries. In the general purpose electronic test market, we compete against companies such as Fluke Corporation (a subsidiary of Danaher Corporation), Keithley Instruments, Inc., LeCroy Corporation, National Instruments Corporation and Tektronix, Inc. In the communications test market, our primary competitors are Acterna Corporation, Aeroflex Incorporated, Anritsu Corporation, EXFO Electro-Optical Engineering, Inc., Ixia, Marconi Corporation, McAfee, Inc. (formerly Network Associates, Inc.), Rohde & Schwartz GmbH & Co. KG, Spirent, Tektronix, Inc., as well as Telcordia, Hewlett Packard Company and Micromuse, Inc. in the communications network monitoring market. Our EDA business also has several software competitors, including Ansoft Corporation, APLAC Solutions Corporation, Applied Wave Research, Inc., Eagleware Manufacturing Company, Inc., and Xpedion Design Systems, Inc. 
In fiscal year 2004 and following the general economic recovery, pricing pressure eased in some of our markets. 
Automated Test Business Our automated test business provides test solutions that are used in the manufacture of semiconductor devices, electronics (primarily printed circuit-board assemblies) and flat panel displays ( FPDs ). These solutions are complemented by consulting, service and support offerings such as start-up assistance, application services and system calibration and repair. Our automated test business s test solutions enable electronics designers and manufacturers to shorten the design-to-production cycle, lower manufacturing cost of test, confirm the functional quality of their devices and of their manufacturing processes and accelerate the high-volume delivery of their products. 
Our automated test business employed approximately 2,200 people as of October 31, 2004. We sell our automated test business s solutions through direct sales and through manufacturers representatives. Our automated test business generated $0.9 billion in revenue in fiscal 2004, $0.8 billion in revenue in fiscal 2003 and $0.7 billion in revenue in fiscal 2002. 
9 Automated Test Markets Agilent s automated test business sells to the semiconductor manufacturing markets, the electronics manufacturing markets and the FPD markets. Customers in these markets use our automated test equipment for wafer-level parametric testing, wafer-sort and final sort for memory test, package-level functional test, structural and electrical testing and inspection for printed circuit board assemblies and thin-film transistor ( TFT ) array test for FPDs. 
Market demand for automated test equipment is driven both by changes in the increased volume of semiconductor devices produced and by developments in semiconductor performance and function, packaging and assembly technology. 
The development of increasingly faster and more complex semiconductor devices stimulates demand for testers capable of evaluating these high-speed devices. In addition, the continuing integration of functions, such as microprocessor, logic, analog, RF and logic, application specific integrated circuits ( ASICs ) and memory on a single integrated circuit has created a category of device called system-on-a-chip ( SOC ). These devices require updates to our sophisticated and flexible automated test equipment. 
In the electronics manufacturing market, new technologies and processes, increasing density and miniaturization of parts, stimulate demand. New materials and smaller parts such as ceramic column grid arrays, ceramic ball grid arrays and ultra-miniature resistors or capacitors ( 0201s ), make new demands on test equipment. The same is true for new and evolving manufacturing processes, such as the pending introduction of lead-free solder. This increases demand for test equipment that provides increased resolution for the highest call accuracy and a range of solutions to access issues. 
The use of FPDs is becoming increasingly common in a wide variety of consumer devices that include cellular phones, digital cameras, liquid crystal display ( LCD ) televisions, computer displays, digital cameras and PDAs. Different technologies are evolving to improve brightness and resolution on the screens. A TFT array tester, such as the two testers introduced by our automated test business in October 2004, helps improve display quality while lowering costs. These TFT array testers detect defects accurately and early in the manufacturing process, regardless of the FPD technology being used. 
Automated Test Products Our automated test business designs, develops and manufactures semiconductor test equipment, electronics manufacturing test equipment and TFT array test equipment. We typically develop our automated test products on a single system architecture and then deliver, over time, enhancements to that architecture that extend its test capabilities. For instance, in 2004 Agilent expanded the capabilities of our 93000 SOC system by further expanding its high-speed performance to address emerging high-speed interconnect technology. At the same time, Agilent introduced a low-cost parallel probe (wafer sort) solution on the same platform. Our customers can adapt their 93000 SOC system according to their needs without having to buy multiple unique testers. We also introduced the V5400 memory tester, based on current Agilent Versatest architecture, that addresses the growing phenomenon of stacked, mixed memory chips, including any combination of flash, dynamic random access memory ( DRAM ) and static random access memory ( SRAM ). 
Semiconductor Test Equipment We produce semiconductor test equipment to perform electrical functional testing of the operation of logic, memory, mixed analog and digital signal, RF, microwave and SOC integrated 10 circuits. Our parametric test instruments and systems combine hardware technology and customizable system software, and are used to examine semiconductor wafers during the semiconductor manufacturing process. Our product development efforts are targeted at leading edge technologies, such as high-speed interconnects, highly integrated mixed-signal memory, parametric test for 90nm and below geometries, and emerging-technology FPDs. 
Our semiconductor test equipment tests a variety of different circuit types. We test both at the wafer level and at final assembly. We are an industry leader in wafer-sort test solutions for flash memory devices, which retain data even when the power is turned off and that are used in digital cameras, cellular phones, PDAs and storage of portable digital audio files. Our flash memory test products can test as many as 4,608 channels to test multiple devices in parallel, greatly improving test throughput and lowering test costs for our customers. Our SOC test system can test not only multiple devices at a time, but also multiple functional elements on a given device at the same time. As a result of its scalable platform architecture, this system can be field-upgraded to the latest technology without the customer needing to buy a new system or shut down the production line for an extended time. 
Electronics Manufacturing Test Equipment Automated Optical Inspection Products. 
Our automated optical inspection line of products enables automated visual inspection of printed circuit assemblies. These systems locate, with a high degree of repeatability and reliability, misplaced and misaligned parts, gross solder defects and other process faults without the need for a human inspector. 
Automated X-ray Inspection Products. 
Our leading x-ray inspection products provide a three-dimensional scan of printed circuit board assemblies to identify and isolate quality defects caused by the manufacturing process. Our products can look through a device to identify structural defects in soldering that are not identified by visual inspection and that may not be detected with in-circuit testing. 
Automated In-Circuit Testing Products. 
Our leading in-circuit testers use a probe fixture that makes electrical contact with the circuit board. These systems make electrical measurements that identify quality defects such as bad and incorrect parts that affect electrical performance, and allow repair of the defects while it is still relatively inexpensive to make the diagnosis and repair. 
Manufacturing Test System Software. 
Our Agilent Quality Tool and Agilent Repair Tool software use the Agilent Intelligent Test Framework that connects and integrates information from the Agilent portfolio of test and inspection equipment. The software provides common tools to enable customers to use information across the manufacturing line for effective process control, repair and test design. 
TFT Array Test Equipment Effective production process testing is essential for FPD manufacturing, because most failures occur during the TFT array process, and correcting overlooked failures post-process is prohibitively expensive. Our TFT array tester family, introduced in October 2004, provides FPD manufacturers with a test solution for all key technologies in the rapidly growing FPD market. An array tester can provide significant cost savings by detecting defects early in the process of manufacturing FPDs. 
Automated Test Customers Many of our customers purchase solutions across several of our major product lines for their different business units. Generally, our customers are involved in producing digital consumer and 11 wireless products, computation, PC and PC peripherals, wireline communications, or enterprise networking and storage. As of the end of fiscal 2004, no single customer represented greater than 10% of the net revenue of the business. 
We also engage in collaborative, co-development relationships with electronics industry leaders and contract manufacturers. 
The back-to-school and holiday seasons affect our automated test business to the extent that we are subject to the cycles of consumer electronics manufacturing. Our customers include manufacturers who produce a wide range of consumer electronics equipment requiring the test of semiconductors, printed-circuit board assemblies and FPDs. 
Automated Test Sales, Marketing and Support Our automated test business s products are distributed using direct sales and through manufacturers representatives. Some portions of the direct sales force provide general services around the world, while others provide specialized consultation services for particular segments of the automated test business. Manufacturers representatives address specific geographic markets. They provide the same level of service and support to Agilent s customers as is expected from our direct channel. 
Automated Test Manufacturing Our automated test business has manufacturing facilities in Germany, Japan and Singapore, and contract manufacturing relationships in Europe, Asia, Japan and the U.S. We do not maintain a high level of finished goods inventory, due to a combination of product platform strategy and outsourcing. However, for those products that we do manufacture, we hold relatively large amounts of raw materials. 
Automated Test Competition The market for automated test solutions is highly competitive, and we expect this competition to increase. Our automated test business competes with a number of significant competitors in all our major product categories and across our targeted industries. In the semiconductor test market, we compete primarily against Advantest Corporation and Teradyne. In the electronics manufacturing test market, we compete primarily against Teradyne. In the large-panel FPD test market, we compete against Photon Dynamics, Applied Komatsu Technologies and Shimadzu Corporation. In emerging FPD technologies, we compete primarily against Wintest. 
Most of our equipment competes primarily on performance or differentiated capabilities. Other contributing factors include cost of test, system scalability and flexibility, sensitivity, speed, reliability and yield. 
Semiconductor Products Business Our semiconductor products business is a leading supplier of semiconductor components, modules and assemblies for consumer and commercial electronics applications. We design, develop and manufacture products for the networking and personal systems markets. Our networking products include fiber optic transceivers for sending and receiving data over high-speed networks and ICs for enterprise storage and networking. In 2004 and 2003, about two-thirds of the semiconductor products business came from customers in consumer electronics markets. 
As of October 31, 2004, our semiconductor products business had approximately 6,800 employees worldwide. Our semiconductor products business generated revenue of $2.0 billion in fiscal year 2004, $1.6 billion in fiscal year 2003 and $1.6 billion in fiscal year 2002. 
12 Semiconductor Markets Our semiconductor products business serves the following markets: Personal Systems Markets We sell products into the Personal Systems market, which are targeted for use in applications including mobile phones, printers, PC peripherals and consumer electronics. 
The driving trend in mobile communications is for higher-speed, higher-bandwidth connections to offer subscribers more digital services through their mobile phones. Consumer products that realize the convergence of palm-top computing, mobile telephony and digital imaging are increasingly appearing on the market. 
Networking Markets We sell products into the networking market, including computing, storage, local area and public network applications. There is a continued evolution of networks both private (local area and storage area networks) and public (metro and wide area networks) to higher speeds and greater bandwidth driven by the ongoing growth of data traffic. Business-to-consumer and business-to-business e-commerce, the internet, the growing volume of e-mail traffic, the growth of streaming video and audio, the delivery of online services, and peer-to-peer communications are all generating ever greater volumes of electronic data that must be processed, moved and stored. As a result, both private and public network managers drive a continual process of upgrading their networks to higher speeds and increased scalability. Fiber optic transceivers and high-speed digital ICs are the semiconductor technologies that help enable higher speed, higher performance networks. 
Semiconductor Products Our semiconductor products business designs and sells semiconductor components modules and assemblies. The major product areas of our semiconductor products business include: Personal Systems Products Radio Frequency and Microwave Communications Device Products. 
We produce a broad family of RF and microwave communications products, primarily integrated circuits for wireless communications products and infrastructure. Our latest products are the Film Bulk Acoustic Resonator ( FBAR ) duplexer, a semiconductor based filter product, and E-pHEMT power amplifiers, a high power-added efficient wireless transmitter solution. The FBAR duplexer and the E-pHEMT power amplifier help enable smaller, more functionally rich mobile telephones. These two products are targeted for both current and future generation mobile phones. We began increasing the production of these two products towards the end of 2003. They have been among the top growth areas for our semiconductor products business. 
Infrared Emitters, Detectors and Transceiver Module Products. 
We are a leading supplier of infrared ( IR ) products that enable short range, point-to-point wireless communication between portable and stationary devices, including notebook personal computers, printers, cellular phones, PDAs, pagers and digital cameras. In 2003, we delivered the industry s first infrared transceiver with remote control functionality for consumer electronics devices such as TVs and VCRs. The semiconductor products business also introduced a solution, known as the Ambient Light Photo Sensor, that senses available light and signals whether backlighting for displays or keypads is required. By not turning on backlighting when it is not needed, mobile systems can save significant battery life. In 2004 we introduced products for Infrared Financial Messaging ( IrFM ), a standard for wirelessly sending digital transactions through use of an IR transceiver in a cell phone, PDA or 13 digital wallet. These payment transactions can take place between a customer and millions of point-of-sale devices to provide instant IR connectivity for secure wireless payment. 
Printing ASICs. 
We are a leading supplier to Hewlett-Packard for printing ASICs, which are the central processing ICs for Hewlett-Packard laser printers, inkjet printers and all-in-one products. Agilent provides subsystem solutions for Hewlett-Packard printers, aimed at capturing more content of printer components and offering higher integration and shorter time-to-market. 
Optical Image Sensors and Processors, and Optical Position Sensors. 
Our products include sensors used in embedded camera modules for mobile phones, and navigation sensors for laser and LED optical mice. We also produce optical motion control products used primarily for precision paper handling and positioning in inkjet printers and all-in-one products. In the fourth quarter of 2004 we agreed to sell inventory and fixed assets relating to our camera module business. We will continue to sell the image sensors that are a component part of the camera modules, but after the sale we will no longer produce the assembled modules. We will retain intellectual property and research and development activities associated with the image sensor technology. 
LEDs and Optocoupler Products. 
We manufacture and sell a broad range of LEDs, alphanumeric displays and optocouplers used in consumer electronics, factory automation and transportation. LEDs are semiconductor devices that emit light when an electrical signal is applied. Optocoupler products are devices that provide both electrical insulation, for protection, and signal isolation, to prevent distortion of data between differing electrical environments. We are a leading supplier of optocouplers for use in Plasma Display Panel ( PDP ) digital TVs. We provide integrated color management solutions and color sensor applications for LEDs which are used for color detection, measurement and control capabilities that can be integrated into different applications including LCD TVs using LED backlights. We are a leading supplier of LED optoelectronic solutions used for keypad and display backlighting, and for camera flash. 
Lighting Joint Venture. 
We are engaged in a global joint venture, Lumileds, with Philips Electronics. Lumileds develops, manufactures and sells LEDs, modules, products and systems for a broad spectrum of lighting applications, including automotive lighting, high-brightness traffic signals, contour lighting and signs, outdoor illumination and white LEDs for both indoor and outdoor applications. In 2004, consumer electronics companies introduced the first products that employ LEDs as an alternative to Cold Cathode Fluorescent lamps ( CCFLs ) as a source of backlighting in LCD displays. 
Networking Products Fibre Channel Controller Products. 
We are the leading supplier of controller ICs for Fibre Channel. The Fibre Channel interconnect protocol, a standard for the transfer of information between computers and storage devices defined by the American National Standards Institute, is the leading technology for building storage area networks ( SANs ). 
In 2004 we introduced the industry s first 4 Gb/s Fibre Channel controller ICs. The controllers offer storage OEMs performance and port density in a single chip. 4 Gb/s Fibre Channel controller IC provides the industry s highest performance for redundant arrangement of independent disk ( RAID ) arrays, storage subsystem virtualization devices, storage routers, host bus adapters and host computer motherboards for mid- to high-end storage applications that use multiprocessor systems. These newest products expand our leading portfolio of Fibre Channel controller solutions for 1 and 2 Gb/s. We also offer physical layer ICs, which connect processing ICs, such as our Fibre Channel controllers, to fiber optic transceivers for data transmission. 
Fiber Optic Products . We are a leading supplier of fiber optic transceivers, which convert electronic digital data into light signals for transmission, and convert light signals back into 14 electronic digital form on the receiving end of the communication. We market optical transceivers, transmitters and receivers for high-speed data communications for Fast, Gigabit and 10-Gigabit Ethernet, 2 and 4 Gb/s Fibre Channel, and Asynchronous Transfer Mode/Synchronous Optical Network ( ATM/SONET ) applications up to 2.5 gigabits per second (OC-48). In addition, we are developing products for dense wave division multiplexing ( DWDM ) optical transport applications. 
High-Speed Digital Integrated Circuit Products. 
We provide core electronics chipsets that support central processing units for selected Hewlett-Packard workstations and servers. We provide customer-specific ASIC solutions for next-generation data switching products. Finally, we are a provider of state-of-the-art ASICs and networking ICs for use in next-generation network switches. 
Semiconductor Customers We sell to customers in the networking and personal systems markets. We sell to original equipment manufacturers directly, as well as contract manufacturers. As we move toward more consumer-centric products, including components for mobile phones and for optical mice, we expect our business to reflect the seasonality inherent in the consumer market. 
Our semiconductor technology licensing and supply arrangements with Hewlett-Packard limit our ability to sell products to other companies, subject to restrictions contained in the exhibits to our Master Patent Ownership and License Agreement with Hewlett-Packard and our ICBD Technology Ownership and License Agreement with Hewlett-Packard, which are exhibits to this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Through sales of ASICs, storage area networking components and motion-control products, Hewlett-Packard accounted for approximately 14 percent of our semiconductor products revenue in fiscal year 2004, 20 percent in fiscal year 2003 and approximately 33 percent in fiscal year 2002. 
Semiconductor Sales, Marketing and Support Our semiconductor sales organization consists of approximately 300 employees who have responsibility for emerging accounts or for large, global accounts. Our sales force has specialized product and service knowledge that enables it to sell specific offerings at key levels throughout a customer s organization. We also have a direct sales team that focuses on supporting major contract manufacturers. In addition to direct sales, we generate approximately 30 percent of our revenue through our relationships with key electronic distributors worldwide. We also provide a broad range of products and applications-related information to customers and channel partners via the Internet. 
Semiconductor Manufacturing The majority of our silicon and gallium arsenide wafer fabrication is done in the U.S. and Singapore, while our assembly and test operations are in Malaysia and Singapore. In addition to these facilities, we utilize a network of contract manufacturers throughout Asia for semiconductor fabrication, packaging and test. 
Our manufacturing strategy has been to outsource more mature technologies while using our in-house manufacturing fabrication, assembly and test capabilities to develop new products. Our production facilities have developed several quality-management processes designed to increase productivity. We have developed proprietary automated test systems, particularly in optical, LED and microwave test. 
For selected customers, we maintain finished goods inventory near or at customer manufacturing sites to support their just-in-time production. In 2004, we negotiated extended payment terms for most of the materials that we purchased. 
15 Semiconductor Competition The markets for our semiconductor products are intensely competitive, and we expect competition to increase. Our ability to compete effectively depends on a number of factors, including: In the fiber-optic products market, our principal competitors are Finisar, Infineon and JDS Uniphase. In the market for high-speed digital ICs, our principal competitors are IBM, LSI Logic, Texas Instruments and Vitesse Semiconductor Corporation. Our principal competitors in RF wireless are Renesas, RF Micro Devices and SkyWorks. In the market for infrared products, our principal competitor is Vishay Intertechnology, Inc. We compete with companies including LSI Logic, Motorola and STMicroelectronics for printer ASICs. Principal competitors in our LED businesses include Lite-on, Inc., Nichia, Osram, Stanley Electronic Co. Ltd. and Toshiba. 
Life Sciences and Chemical Analysis Business Our life sciences and chemical analysis business provides application-focused solutions that include instruments, software, consumables and services that enable customers to identify, quantify and analyze the physical and biological properties of substances and products. Our seven key product categories include: microarrays, microfluidics, gas chromatography, liquid chromatography, mass spectrometry, software and informatics, and related consumables, reagents and services. 
We employed approximately 3,900 people as of October 31, 2004 in our life sciences and chemical analysis business. This business generated revenue of $1.3 billion in fiscal 2004, $1.2 billion in fiscal 2003 and $1.1 billion in fiscal 2002. 
Life Sciences and Chemical Analysis Markets Primarily, our life sciences and chemical analysis business serves the following markets: Life Sciences Markets Our life science markets account for approximately 40 percent of revenue from our life sciences and chemical analysis business. Agilent s life science solutions are used by academic researchers, government institutes and pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical companies in every phase of the drug development process. The drug development process includes research into the basic causes and understanding of disease, drug discovery, drug development, drug manufacturing and quality assurance/quality control ( QA/QC ). Within the life sciences, we focus on the following areas: pharmaceutical analysis (drug development, manufacturing and QA/QC), gene expression and proteomics. 
The Pharmaceutical Analysis Market. 
Pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical companies develop and manufacture drugs under strict regulatory guidelines intended to ensure the quality of products developed and given to patients, and to ensure the security and quality of information given to regulatory agencies. We provide liquid chromatography, gas chromatography and mass 16 spectrometry solutions for the analysis of chemicals, and provide compliance services and data systems designed to further enable compliance with relevant regulations of the Food and Drug Administration ( FDA ) and other regulatory agencies. 
The Gene Expression Market. 
Biological researchers today can study organisms and diseases based on genetic material. Gene expression researchers use devices called microarrays to measure the activity levels of many genes in a cell simultaneously for the purpose of understanding and characterizing disease, identifying drug targets and identifying patterns of gene activity that correlate to the potential toxicity or effectiveness of a drug. This is a double-digit growth market in which our microarray, microfluidics and informatics solutions are sold. 
The Proteomics Market. 
When a drug enters the body, it usually targets one or more proteins. Proteomics is a new and growing field with the goal of identifying, characterizing and analyzing proteins on a high-volume scale. Proteomics is also important to the large-scale manufacture of protein-based therapies in development by biotech companies. Protein scientists currently apply traditional protein analysis technologies such as liquid chromatography, gas chromatography and mass spectrometry, as well as newer microfluidics technologies and reagents. We provide solutions in all of these areas and are investigating new technologies for proteomics research. 
Chemical Analysis Markets Our chemical analysis markets account for approximately 60 percent of revenue from the life sciences and chemical analysis business. Agilent s chemical analysis solutions are used by corporations, government organizations and academic researchers to detect, characterize, quantify and analyze chemicals and biological entities that could affect human health, both those found in the environment and those created in the manufacturing of products. Within chemical analysis, we focus primarily on the following areas: petrochemical, environmental, homeland security and forensics and bioagriculture and food safety. 
The Petrochemical Market. 
The natural gas and petroleum refining markets use our products to measure and control the quality of their finished products and to verify the environmental safety of their operations. We sell gas chromatographs, liquid chromatographs and mass spectrometers into these markets. Petroleum refiners use our measurement solutions to analyze crude oil composition, perform raw material analysis, verify and improve refining processes and ensure the overall quality of gasoline, fuels, lubricants and other products. Our gas chromatographs are also used to monitor consistent quality in the delivery of natural gas. 
The Environmental Market. 
Our gas chromatography, liquid chromatography and mass spectrometry solutions are used by the environmental market for applications such as laboratory and field analysis of chemical pollutants in air, water, soil and solid waste. Environmental industry customers include all levels of government, the industrial and manufacturing sectors, engineering and consulting companies, commercial testing laboratories and colleges and universities. We are seeing increased international demand for environmental instrumentation in the Asia-Pacific region. 
The Homeland Security and Forensics Market. 
Our liquid chromatography, gas chromatography, mass spectrometry and microfluidics solutions are used by health and forensics laboratories in the U.S. and abroad, particularly in the analysis of evidence associated with crime or with the detection and identification of biological and chemical warfare agents. This instrumentation is either used in static or mobile laboratories. Customers include local, state, federal, and international law enforcement agencies and health laboratories. 
17 The Bioagriculture and Food Safety Market. 
Food safety industries apply the same general technologies for chemical analysis as the pharmaceutical and environmental markets, including gas and liquid chromatography and mass spectrometry. Additionally, bioagriculture industries seek to improve crops and foods by conducting research on these organisms, as well as testing for genetically modified content, using microarray and microfluidics solutions. 
Life Sciences and Chemical Analysis Products A key factor in all of our life sciences and chemical target markets is the need for new products that increase customer productivity and provide high quality data that enables decision-making by our customers. 
Microarray Products Since announcing the launch of our DNA microarray program for the life sciences in December 1999, we have become the second leading supplier of microarray solutions which we sell primarily to pharmaceutical companies, biotech companies and academia. Using our refined inkjet manufacturing process, we make highly sensitive 60-mer oligonucleotide ( oligo ) microarrays. This unique inkjet process is highly flexible and accurate, enabling the faster manufacture of new and custom high-density microarrays with highly uniform spot shape. 
In 2004, we introduced our line of whole genome microarrays, including kits for human, mouse and Arabidopsis, a model plant organism. In a collaborative effort, we also commercialized the first 60-mer oligo microarray for the study of rice, a staple food for half the world s population. We now provide microarrays for the study of human, mouse, rat, Arabidopsis, rice, rice blast (a type of rice fungus) and yeast. 
Microfluidics Products The Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer is the first commercial microfluidics solution for the analysis of a wide range of biological molecules, including DNA, RNA, proteins and cells. The bioanalyzer chips allow sample quality assessment to be done in a fraction of the usual time using less sample and reagents. This technology could eventually replace traditional gel electrophoresis in many applications. 
In 2004, we introduced the Agilent 2100 Expert Software with compliance features that enable the bioanalyzer to be used for the development and manufacture of protein-based therapeutics in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries. 
To standardize RNA quality measurement using the bioanalyzer, Agilent introduced a beta version of its RNA integrity number ( RIN ) software. It is the first tool for objectively grading and communicating the quality of RNA used in experiments. 
In November 2004, Agilent introduced the first fully automated, high-throughput lab-on-a-chip system, which will enable unattended analysis of thousands of DNA or protein samples per day. 
Gas Chromatography Products We produce gas chromatography systems, both portable and stationary. A gas chromatograph ( GC ) is used to separate any gas, liquid or solid molecules that can be vaporized in order to determine the quantity and identity of the molecules present. As a market leader in gas chromatography, we continue to expand its applications with new columns and supplies, as well as product and software enhancements. 
In 2004, we introduced a network headspace sampler that features an inert sample pathway and significant improvements in sensitivity, performance and productivity. We also introduced a thermal 18 performance qualification service for Agilent gas chromatographs, which helps to verify that a GC s heated zones (oven, injection ports and detectors) are working properly. In April, Agilent also became the first company to offer online training for gas chromatography. 
Liquid Chromatography Products A liquid chromatograph ( LC ) or a high performance liquid chromatograph ( HPLC ) is used to separate molecules of a liquid mixture to determine the quantity and identity of the molecules present. Used when gas chromatography is not an option, these instruments are modular in construction and can be configured to form instruments that perform specific analyses. We offer a HPLC system, the Agilent 1100 Series, with over 50,000 systems sold since its introduction. As a leader in liquid chromatography, we continue to expand its applications with new LC and HPLC columns and provide ongoing product and software enhancements. 
In 2004, we introduced improvements to the Agilent 1100 Series HPLC purification system. We released a new dual loop autosampler for the purification platform that provides flexible sample handling and high sample throughput in a compact design that conserves critical bench space. We also released new purification system software, which provide flexible functionality for preparative HPLC, enabling users to add modules for specific needs. 
We also introduced the Agilent 1100 Series HPLC micro collection/spotting system. It is a complete software-controlled separation solution for proteomics that features direct spotting on matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization mass spectrometry (MALDI-MS) targets. 
Mass Spectrometry Products A mass spectrometer ( MS ) identifies and quantifies chemicals based on a chemical s molecular mass and on characteristic patterns of fragment masses that result when a molecule is broken apart. Mass spectrometry is an important tool in analyzing proteins and other biological entities that undergo transformations because it enables the understanding and characterization of their many different states. MS systems are typically used in combination with gas or liquid chromatographs. 
In the past three years, Agilent significantly expanded its mass spectrometry portfolio with a focus on ease of use, sensitivity and reliability. We introduced several instruments including new ion trap, time-of-flight ( TOF ) and inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry ( ICP-MS ) systems. We also significantly upgraded our existing LC/MS and GC/MS quadrupole systems. 
In 2004, we continued to expand our MS portfolio with several new products and solutions. We introduced a new 7500ce ICP-MS system, which is up to five times more sensitive than its predecessor. We introduced the Agilent LC/MSD Trap XCT Plus ion trap MS, which is four times more sensitive than its predecessor. We upgraded our TOF MS by providing new autotuning and compatibility features and improving its integration with our capillary electrophoresis system. We introduced the Agilent protein identification solution, a multiple-system LC/MS package for proteomics and pharmaceutical applications. 
Software and Informatics Products We provide software for controlling instruments, managing the laboratory, and analyzing the data generated by instrument platforms. 
Early in 2004, Agilent introduced a new version of the Agilent Cerity Networked Data System for Pharmaceutical QA/QC that is the first system of its kind to provide automated 3-D analysis, generic instrument control and a spreadsheet-style custom calculator. We also released the Agilent 19 MSD Security ChemStation, the first Agilent data system for GC/MS that facilitates the regulatory-compliant use of GC/MS in pharmaceutical environments. 
Agilent also announced an exclusive agreement in the life sciences area to market, sell and support Scientific Software s CyberLAB Enterprise Content Management System, a Web-based electronic library that collects, organizes, indexes, stores, archives and shares electronic records. 
Agilent shipped an upgrade to its Spectrum Mill MS proteomics workbench for better performance and ease of use in a broad range of proteomics applications. We also released new protein confirmation software for the TOF that allows researchers to easily and reliably check the identity and purity of proteins. 
In October 2004, we acquired Silicon Genetics, a leading provider of software solutions for life science discovery. The acquisition adds several new products to Agilent s portfolio: GeneSpring, a genomics expression data visualization and analysis solution; Varia, high-volume genetic variation analysis software; and GeNet, a scalable repository for expression data. 
We also announced an agreement to partner in an $11.7 million grant from the National Institute of Standards and Technology s Advanced Technology Program to develop informatics technologies for life science research. 
Consumables, Reagents and Services We also offer a broad range of consumable products, which support our LC, GC and MS technology platforms. These consumable products include chemical and biological reagents, instrument replacement parts, brand-specific chromatography columns and consumable supplies to meet our customers analysis needs. All of our products, which include generic and proprietary supplies, are designed to work together. 
Our support services include all of our chemical and bioinstrumentation analysis hardware and software maintenance, troubleshooting, repair and training. Special service bundles have also been designed to meet the specific analysis instrument needs of various industries. 
In 2004, we continued to expand our portfolio of consumables and services. We introduced new versions of our multiple affinity removal system for protein research, including a new LC column that removes the three most abundant proteins from mouse serum and a new spin cartridge format. 
We introduced a Lys Tag 4H reagent kit for tagging lysine peptides during MS analysis. We released Agilent Prep LC columns, a line of preparative LC columns designed specifically for industrial-scale purification of target compounds in the pharmaceutical industry. We also introduced the HP-88, a long-lasting GC column designed specifically for efficient, reliable analysis of trans fatty acid content in food. 
Life Sciences and Chemical Analysis Customers Our top 25 customers account for approximately 21 percent of revenue within our life sciences and chemical analysis businesses. We have roughly 21,000 customers, and as of the end of fiscal 2004, no single customer represented greater than 10% of the net revenue of the business. 
The life sciences and chemical analysis business is susceptible to seasonality in its orders and revenues primarily based on U.S. government and large pharmaceutical company budgets. The result is that our first and fourth fiscal quarters tend to deliver the strongest profits for this group. 
20 However, general economic trends, new product introductions and competition might overshadow this trend in any given year. 
Life Sciences and Chemical Analysis Sales, Marketing and Support Our sales and support delivery channels are aligned by key markets. We market products to our customers through direct sales, electronic commerce, resellers, manufacturers representatives and distributors. Additionally, we are optimizing our worldwide distribution capabilities to address high-growth opportunities such as the environmental, food safety and pharmaceutical markets in the Asia-Pacific region. 
We use direct sales to market our solutions to all of our pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical accounts, large- and medium-sized chemical customers and environmental accounts. Sales agents supplement direct sales by providing broader geographic coverage and coverage of smaller accounts. Our active reseller program augments our ability to provide more complete solutions to our customers. We sell our consumable products through distributors, telesales and electronic commerce. 
We offer a wide range of startup, operational, educational and compliance support services for our measurement and data handling systems. We deliver our support services to customers in a variety of ways, including on-site assistance with repair or exchange of returned products, telephone support and self-diagnostic services provided over the Internet. We also offer special industry-focused service bundles that are designed to meet the specific needs of hydrocarbon processing, environmental, pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical customers to keep instruments fully operational and compliant with the respective industry requirements. 
Life Sciences and Chemical Analysis Manufacturing Our manufacturing supports our diverse product range and customer-centric focus. We assemble highly configurable products to individual customer orders and make standard products to stock. We employ advanced manufacturing techniques and supply chain management systems to reduce costs and manufacturing cycle times. We selectively use third parties to provide manufacturing capabilities outside our core competencies, such as the manufacture of printed circuit assemblies and the delivery of shipment logistics. We have manufacturing facilities in California and Delaware in the U.S., China, Germany and Japan. We utilize just-in-time manufacturing, and so typically do not maintain a high level of inventory. Our products typically come with standard warranties, and extended warranties are available for additional cost. 
Life Sciences and Chemical Analysis Competition The markets for analytical instruments in which we compete are characterized by evolving industry standards and intense competition. Our principal competitors in the life sciences arena include: Affymetrix , Applied Biosystems, GE Healthcare, Invitrogen, Thermo Electron and Waters. Our principal competitors in the chemical analysis arena include: Applied Biosystems, Perkin Elmer Corp., Shimadzu Corporation, Thermo Electron and Varian. Agilent competes on the basis of product performance, reliability, support quality, applications expertise and global channel coverage. 
Life Sciences and Chemical Analysis Government Regulation The analysis products and related consumables marketed by our chemical analysis business are subject to regulation in the U.S. by the Environmental Protection Agency ( EPA ) under the Toxic Substances Control Act, and by government agencies in other countries under similar laws. The Toxic Substances Control Act regulations govern, among other things, the testing, manufacture, processing and distribution of chemicals, the testing of regulated chemicals for their effects on 21 human health and safety and import and export of chemicals. The Toxic Substances Control Act prohibits persons from manufacturing any chemical in the U.S. that has not been reviewed by EPA for its effect on health and safety, and placed on an EPA inventory of chemical substances. Therefore, we must continually adapt our chemical analysis products to changing regulations. If we fail to comply with the notification, record-keeping and other requirements in the manufacture or distribution of our products, the EPA can obtain an order from a court that would prohibit the further distribution or marketing of a product that does not comply or we could face fines, civil penalties or criminal prosecution. 
Agilent Technologies Laboratories ( Agilent Labs ) Agilent Labs, based in Palo Alto, California, with satellite offices in China; Fort Collins, Colorado; and Scotland, is our central research organization. Agilent Labs engages primarily in two types of research: 1) applied research that leads to technology that can be transferred to our existing businesses in communications, life sciences, and electronics, and 2) research that creates new businesses that are outside of our current markets but within our fields of interest. Agilent Labs also provides technology integration across our company. 
Agilent Labs employs approximately 300 people. About 70 percent of Agilent Labs employees are members of the technical staff, and about 70 percent of the technical staff have advanced degrees that cover a wide range of scientific fields, including biology, bioinformatics, chemistry, computer science, electrical engineering, image processing, materials science, mathematics, optoelectronics, photonics, physics, physiology, semiconductor technology and systems integration. 
The following discussions of Research and Development, Backlog, Intellectual Property, Materials, Environmental, International Operations and Acquisition and Disposal of Material Assets include information common to all four of our segments. 
Research and Development Research and development expenditures were $933 million in 2004, $1,051 million in 2003 and $1,250 million in 2002, the vast majority of which was company-sponsored. We anticipate that we will continue to have significant R&D expenditures in order to maintain our competitive position with a continuing flow of innovative, high-quality products and services. 
Backlog We believe that backlog orders are not a meaningful indicator of future business prospects. Backlog, as we define it, generally only represents cumulative outstanding orders that are scheduled for delivery within a six-month period. Therefore backlog is not a material indicator of our future medium- to long-term business prospects. We believe that our incoming orders in any given period are more indicative of short-term revenue trends for our businesses. However, for our Semiconductor Products business, neither backlog nor orders are indicative of future business prospects since the time between receipt of an order and revenue recognition has decreased significantly during 2004. See Results of Continuing Operations in Item 7 of this report. 
Intellectual Property Our general policy has been to seek patent and other intellectual property protection for those inventions and improvements likely to be incorporated into our products and services or to give us a competitive advantage. While we believe that our licenses, patents and applications have value, in general no single patent or license is in itself essential. In addition, there can be no assurance that any of our proprietary rights will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, or that our rights will provide significant competitive advantages. 
22 Materials Our manufacturing operations employ a wide variety of semiconductors, electromechanical components and assemblies and raw materials such as plastic resins and sheet metal. Each of our segments purchases materials from thousands of suppliers on a global basis. No single supplier is material, although some of the parts that require custom design work are not readily available from alternate suppliers due to their unique design or the length of time necessary for design work. Our long-term relationships with our suppliers allow us to proactively manage technology road maps and product discontinuance plans and monitor their financial health. Even so, some suppliers may still extend their lead times, limit supplies, increase prices or cease to produce necessary parts for our products. If these are unique components, we may not be able to find a substitute quickly, or at all. To address the potential disruption in our supply chain, we use a number of techniques, including qualifying multiple sources of supply, redesign of products for alternative components and purchase of incremental inventory for supply buffer. 
Environmental Our R&D, manufacturing and distribution operations involve the use of hazardous substances and are regulated under international, federal, state and local laws governing health and safety and the environment. We apply strict standards for protection of the environment and worker health and safety to sites inside and outside the U.S., even if not subject to regulation imposed by foreign governments. We believe that our properties and operations at our facilities comply in all material respects with applicable environmental laws and worker health and safety laws; however, the risk of environmental liabilities cannot be completely eliminated and there can be no assurance that the application of environmental and health and safety laws to Agilent will not require us to incur significant expenditures. We are also regulated under a number of international, federal, state and local laws regarding recycling, product packaging and product content requirements. These laws are gradually becoming more stringent and may in the future cause us to incur significant expenditures. 
Some of our operations are located on properties that are known to have subsurface contamination undergoing remediation by Hewlett-Packard. Hewlett-Packard has agreed to retain the liability for the contamination, perform the required remediation and indemnify us with respect to claims arising out of the contamination. The determination of the existence and cost of any additional contamination caused by us could involve costly and time-consuming negotiations and litigation. While we expect that Hewlett-Packard will meet its remediation and indemnification obligations in this regard, there can be no guarantee that it will do so. Under our agreement with Hewlett-Packard, Hewlett-Packard will have access to these properties to perform the remediation. Hewlett-Packard has agreed to minimize interference with on-site operations at those properties during the course of the remediation, but there can be no guarantee that our operations will not be interrupted or that we will not be required to incur unreimbursed costs associated with the remediation. Remediation could also harm on-site operations and the future use and value of the properties. 
In addition, some of these properties are undergoing remediation by Hewlett-Packard under an order of an agency of the state in which the property is located. Although Hewlett-Packard has agreed to indemnify us with respect to that subsurface contamination, it is possible that one or more of the governmental agencies will require us to be named on any of these orders. The naming of Agilent will not affect Hewlett-Packard s obligation to indemnify us with regard to these matters. 
We are liable and are indemnifying Hewlett-Packard for any contamination found at all facilities transferred to us by Hewlett-Packard excluding the properties undergoing remediation. In addition, we are indemnifying Hewlett-Packard for any liability associated with past non-compliance with environmental laws regulating ongoing operations at all properties transferred to us by Hewlett- 23 Packard, as well as at sold or discontinued businesses that are related to our businesses. While we are not aware of any material liabilities associated with such indemnified matters, there is no guarantee that such contamination or regulatory non-compliance does not exist, and will not expose us to material liability in the future. 
We are being indemnified by Hewlett-Packard with respect to all environmental liabilities for which Hewlett-Packard accrued a reserve and we are not aware of any material and probable environmental liabilities being assumed by us which are not subject to the indemnity. 
International Operations Our net revenue originating outside the U.S., as a percentage of our total net revenue, was approximately 69 percent in fiscal 2004, 64 percent in fiscal 2003 and 61 percent in fiscal 2002, the majority of which was from customers other than foreign governments. Approximately 11 percent of our revenue in the last three years was derived from Japan. Revenues from external customers are generally attributed to countries based upon the location of the Agilent sales representative. Long-lived assets located outside of the U.S., as a percentage of our total long-lived assets, was approximately 53 percent in fiscal year 2004, 47 percent in fiscal year 2003 and 43 percent in fiscal year 2002. Approximately 12 percent of our long-lived assets were located in Japan in fiscal year 2004, approximately 14 percent were located in Japan in fiscal year 2003 and approximately 10 percent in fiscal year 2002. 
Most of our sales in international markets are made by foreign sales subsidiaries. In countries with low sales volumes, sales are made through various representatives and distributors. However, we also sell into international markets directly from the U.S. 
Our international business is subject to risks customarily encountered in foreign operations, including interruption to transportation flows for delivery of parts to us and finished goods to our customers, changes in a specific country s or region s political or economic conditions, trade protection measures, import or export licensing requirements, unexpected changes in tax laws and regulatory requirements, difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations, differing labor regulations and differing protection of intellectual property. We are also exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk inherent in our sales commitments, anticipated sales, and assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the local functional currency, and may also become subject to interest rate risk inherent in any debt we incur, or investment and finance receivable portfolios we hold. The U.S. and international response to recent terrorist activities could exacerbate these risks. For example, there may be an increased risk of political unrest in regions where we have significant manufacturing operations such as Southeast Asia. However, we believe that our international diversification provides stability to our worldwide operations and reduces the impact on us of adverse economic changes in any single country. Financial information about our international operations is contained in Note 19, Segment Information, of the consolidated financial statements included in Item 15 of this report. 
Acquisition and Disposal of Material Assets On January 5, 2001, we acquired Objective Systems Integrators, Inc. ( OSI ) for approximately $716 million. OSI was a provider of next-generation operations-support-system software for communications service providers and has become part of our test and measurement business. In January 2000, April 2000 and January 2001, we acquired Yokogawa Electric Corporation s 25 percent equity interest in Agilent Technologies Japan, Ltd. for approximately $521 million. In addition to the OSI and Yokogawa acquisitions, we acquired several other companies since our incorporation that were not material. 
24 In the fourth quarter of 2000, we entered into an asset purchase agreement with CIT Group Inc. ( CIT, formerly Tyco Capital Corporation) to sell them substantially all of our leasing portfolio over the course of 2000 and 2001. We also entered into a vendor financing arrangement with CIT whereby CIT will provide equipment financing and leasing services to our customers on a global basis. 
In February 2001, we sold a parcel of surplus land in San Jose, California for $287 million in cash. 
Executive Officers of the Registrant The names of our executive officers and their ages, titles and biographies as of December 16, 2004, appear below. 
Edward W. Barnholt, 61, Mr. Barnholt has served as Agilent s President and Chief Executive Officer and as a director since May 1999 and also as Chairman of the Board since November 2002. Before being named Agilent s Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Barnholt served as Executive Vice President and General Manager of Hewlett-Packard Company s Measurement Organization from 1998 to 1999, which included the business organizations that have become Agilent. From 1990 to 1998, he served as General Manager of Hewlett-Packard Company s Test and Measurement Organization. He was elected a Senior Vice President of Hewlett-Packard Company in 1993 and an Executive Vice President in 1996. He is a director of KLA-Tencor Corporation. 
Adrian T. Dillon, 50, has served as our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since December 2001. Prior to assuming this position, Mr. Dillon served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial and Planning Officer of Eaton Corporation from April 1997 to December 2001. Mr. Dillon held various management positions at Eaton Corporation from 1979 to 1997. 
Jean M. Halloran, 52, has served as our Senior Vice President, Human Resources since August 1999. From 1997 to 1999, Ms. Halloran served as Director of Corporate Education and Development for Hewlett-Packard. Prior to assuming this position, from 1993 to 1997, Ms. Halloran acted as human resources manager for Hewlett-Packard s Measurement Systems Organization. Ms. Halloran joined Hewlett-Packard in 1980 in the Medical Products Group, where she held a variety of positions in human resources, manufacturing and strategic planning. 
Didier Hirsch, 53, has served as our Vice President and Corporate Controller since April 2003. Prior to assuming that position, Mr. Hirsch served as Vice President and Treasurer from September 1999 to April 2003. In 1996, Mr. Hirsch became Director of Finance and Administration of Hewlett-Packard Europe, Middle East, and Africa. In 1993, Mr. Hirsch became Director of Finance and Administration of Hewlett-Packard Asia Pacific. Mr. Hirsch joined Hewlett-Packard Company in 1989 as Director of Finance and Administration of Hewlett-Packard France. 
D. Craig Nordlund, 55, was named our Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary in May 1999 and serves as an officer or director for a variety of Agilent subsidiaries. He is also a director of the Addison Avenue Federal Credit Union. Mr. Nordlund served as Associate General Counsel and Secretary of Hewlett-Packard Company from 1987 to 1999. 
Young K. Sohn, 48, has served as Senior Vice President of Agilent Technologies, Inc. and President of the Semiconductor Products Group since August 2003. He also has served as a Senior Vice President of Agilent Technologies, Inc. since August 2003. Prior to assuming that position, Mr. Sohn was Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Oak Technology, from February 1999 to August 2003. Before joining Oak Technology, from January 1993 to February 1999, Mr. Sohn held a variety of management positions at Quantum Corporation, including President of its Hard Drive Group, Vice 25 President of Marketing for the Desktop Division, and President of the Asia-Pacific region. From August 1983 to January 1993, Mr. Sohn held a number of management positions at Intel Corporation. Mr. Sohn serves on the Boards of Directors of Cymer Corporation and Synnex Technology, Inc. 
William P. Sullivan , 54, has served as our Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer since March 2002. In this capacity, he shares the responsibilities of the president s office with Agilent President and Chief Executive Officer Edward W. Barnholt. Mr. Sullivan also has overall responsibility for Agilent s Electronic Products and Solutions Group, the company s largest business group. Prior to assuming this position, Mr. Sullivan served as our Senior Vice President, Semiconductor Products Group from August 1999 to March 2002. Before that, Mr. Sullivan held various management positions at Hewlett-Packard. Mr. Sullivan serves on the Board of the Children s Discovery Museum in San Jose, California. 
Jack P. Trautman, 54, has served as Senior Vice President of Agilent Technologies, Inc. and President of the Automated Test Group since May 2002. Prior to assuming that position, Mr. Trautman served as Vice President and General Manager of Communications Management Solutions Business Unit from 2001 to 2002. He served as General Manager of the Data Protection Unit of Hewlett-Packard from 2000 to 2001. Mr. Trautman was the General Manager of Hewlett-Packard s Computer Peripherals Bristol Division in Bristol, England from 1997 to 2000. Mr. Trautman joined Hewlett-Packard in 1974 and held a number of managerial positions over the years. 
Chris van Ingen, 58, has served as Senior Vice President of Agilent Technologies, Inc. and President of the Life Sciences and Chemical Analysis Group since May 2001. Prior to assuming this position, Mr. Van Ingen held a number of positions at Hewlett-Packard including, Chemical Analysis Group Sales and Marketing Manager from 1996 to April 2001, the Americas Marketing Center Manager from 1989 to 1996, Product Marketing Manager at Little Falls Division from 1986 to 1989, and Sales Support Manager at Little Falls Division from 1984 to 1986. 
Thomas E. White, 47, has served as Senior Vice President of Agilent Technologies, Inc. and President of the Communications Solutions Group since August 1999. From 1997 to August 1999, Mr. White served as Vice President and General Manager of the Communications Solutions Group of Hewlett-Packard. From 1996 to 1997, he served as General Manager of Hewlett-Packard s Computer Peripherals Bristol Division and, beginning in 1994, he served as General Manager for Hewlett-Packard s Telecommunications Systems Division, South Queensferry, Scotland. 
Investor Information We are subject to the informational requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act ). Therefore, we file periodic reports, proxy statements and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC ). Such reports, proxy statements and other information may be obtained by visiting the Public Reference Room of the SEC at 450 Fifth Street, NW, Washington, DC 20549 or by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, the SEC maintains an Internet site (http://www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically. 
You can access financial and other information at our Investor Relations website. The address is www.investor.agilent.com. We make available, free of charge, copies of our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after filing such material electronically or otherwise furnishing it to the SEC. 
26 Our Corporate Governance Standards, the charters of our Audit and Finance Committee, our Compensation Committee, our Executive Committee and our Nominating/Corporate Governance Committee, as well as our Standards of Business Conduct (including code of ethics provisions that apply to our principal executive officer, principal financial officer, controller and senior financial officers) are available on our website at www.investor.agilent.com under Corporate Governance Policies. These items are also available in print to any stockholder who requests them by calling (877) 942-4200 in the U.S. and Canada, and (402) 573-9919 outside the U.S. and Canada. 