http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1090872/000104746910010499/a2201423z10-k.htm
http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1090872/000104746910010499/a2201423z10-k.htm
9.513e+12
A
2010-10-31
10-K
A_2010-10-31_10-K.txt

Item 8. 
Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 66 REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM To the Stockholders and Board of Directors of Agilent Technologies, Inc.: In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements listed in the index appearing under Item 8 present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Agilent Technologies, Inc. and its subsidiaries at October 31, 2010 and October 31, 2009, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended October 31, 2010 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. In addition, in our opinion, the financial statement schedule listed in the index appearing under item 15(a)(2) presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein when read in conjunction with the related consolidated financial statements. Also in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of October 31, 2010, based on criteria established in Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). The Company's management is responsible for these financial statements and financial statement schedule, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in Management's Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting appearing under Item 9A. Our responsibility is to express opinions on these financial statements, on the financial statement schedule, and on the Company's internal control over financial reporting based on our integrated audits. We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement and whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audits of the financial statements included examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audits also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions. 
As discussed in Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company changed the manner in which it accounts for uncertain tax positions as of November 1, 2007. 
A company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company's internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. 
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. 
PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS LLP San Jose, California December 17, 2010 67 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 
68 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 
69 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 
70 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF EQUITY 71 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF EQUITY (Continued) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 
72 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1. OVERVIEW AND SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Overview. 
Agilent Technologies, Inc. ("we", "Agilent" or the "company"), incorporated in Delaware in May 1999, is a measurement company, providing core bio-analytical and electronic measurement solutions to the communications, electronics, life sciences and chemical analysis industries. 
Acquisition of Varian, Inc. 
On May 14, 2010, we completed our acquisition of Varian, Inc. ("Varian"), a leading supplier of scientific instrumentation and associated consumables for life science and chemical analysis market applications, by means of a merger of one of our wholly-owned subsidiaries with and into Varian such that Varian became a wholly-owned subsidiary of Agilent. The $1.5 billion total purchase price of Varian included $52 cash per share of Varian's outstanding common stock including vested and non-vested in-the-money stock options at $52 cash per share less their exercise price. Varian's non-vested restricted stock awards, non-vested performance shares, at 100 percent of target, and non-vested director's stock units were also paid at $52 per share. As part of the European Commission's merger approval and the Federal Trade Commission consent order, Agilent committed to sell Varian's laboratory gas chromatography ("GC") business; Varian's triple quadrupole gas chromatography-mass spectrometry ("GC-MS") business; Varian's inductively-coupled plasma-mass spectrometry ("ICP-MS") business; and Agilent's micro GC business. On May 19, 2010 we completed the sale of the Varian laboratory GC business, the triple quadrupole GC-MS business, the ICP-MS business and the Agilent micro GC business for approximately $33 million. We financed the purchase price of Varian using the proceeds from our September 2009 offering of senior notes and other existing cash. The Varian merger has been accounted for in accordance with the authoritative accounting guidance and the results of Varian are included in Agilent's consolidated financial statements from the date of merger. We expect to realize operational and cost synergies, leverage the existing sales channels and product development resources, and utilize the assembled workforce. The company expects the combined entity to achieve significant savings in corporate and divisional overhead costs. The company also anticipates opportunities for growth through expanded geographic and customer segment diversity and the ability to leverage additional products and capabilities. For additional details related to the acquisition of Varian, see Note 3, "Acquisition of Varian". 
Sale of Network Solutions Division. 
On May 1, 2010, we completed the sale of the Network Solutions Division ("NSD") of our electronic measurement business to JDS Uniphase Corporation ("JDSU"), a leading communications test and measurement company. JDSU paid Agilent $160 million and we recorded a net gain on the sale of NSD of $132 million in fiscal 2010. NSD includes Agilent's network assurance solutions, network protocol test and drive test products. The results of operations of NSD were not significant to the income from operations of Agilent for the year ended October 31, 2010. 
Sale of Hycor Biomedical, Inc. 
On February 2, 2010, the company sold Hycor Biomedical Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary, to Linden LLC, a Chicago-based healthcare private equity firm. Hycor is a global manufacturer and marketer of in vitro diagnostics products. 
Basis of presentation. 
The accompanying financial data has been prepared by us pursuant to the rules and regulations of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") and is in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"). Our fiscal year end is October 31. Unless otherwise stated, all years and dates refer to our fiscal year. 
73 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Management is responsible for the fair presentation of the accompanying consolidated financial statements, prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP, and has full responsibility for their integrity and accuracy. In the opinion of management, the accompanying consolidated financial statements contain all adjustments necessary to present fairly our consolidated balance sheet, statement of operations, statement of cash flows and statement of stockholders' equity for all periods presented. 
Reclassifications. 
Certain prior year financial statement amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation with no impact on previously reported net income. 
Principles of consolidation. 
The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the company and our wholly- and majority-owned subsidiaries. All significant intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated. Partially owned, non-controlled equity affiliates are accounted for under the equity method. 
Use of estimates. 
The preparation of financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Management bases its estimates on historical experience and various other assumptions believed to be reasonable. Although these estimates are based on management's best knowledge of current events and actions that may impact the company in the future, actual results may be different from the estimates. Our critical accounting policies are those that affect our financial statements materially and involve difficult, subjective or complex judgments by management. Those policies are revenue recognition, inventory valuation, investment impairments, share-based compensation, retirement and post-retirement plan assumptions, goodwill and purchased intangible assets, restructuring and asset impairment charges and accounting for income taxes. 
Revenue recognition. 
We enter into agreements to sell products (hardware and/or software), services and other arrangements (multiple element arrangements) that include combinations of products and services. 
We recognize revenue, net of trade discounts and allowances, provided that (1) persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, (2) delivery has occurred, (3) the price is fixed or determinable and (4) collectibility is reasonably assured. Delivery is considered to have occurred when title and risk of loss have transferred to the customer, for products, or when the service has been provided. We consider the price to be fixed or determinable when the price is not subject to refund or adjustments. We consider arrangements with extended payment terms not to be fixed or determinable, and accordingly we defer revenue until amounts become due. At the time of the transaction, we evaluate the creditworthiness of our customers to determine the appropriate timing of revenue recognition. 
Product revenue. 
Our product revenue is generated predominantly from the sales of various types of test equipment. Product revenue, including sales to resellers and distributors, is reduced for estimated returns, when appropriate. For sales or arrangements that include customer-specified acceptance criteria, including those where acceptance is required upon achievement of performance milestones, revenue is recognized after the acceptance criteria have been met. For products that include installation, if the installation meets the criteria to be considered a separate element, product revenue is recognized upon delivery, and recognition of installation revenue is delayed until the installation is complete. Otherwise, neither the product nor the installation revenue is recognized until the installation is complete. 
74 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Where software is licensed separately, revenue is recognized when the software is delivered and title and risk of loss have been transferred to the customer or, in the case of electronic delivery of software, when the customer is given access to the licensed software programs. We also evaluate whether collection of the receivable is probable, the fee is fixed or determinable and whether any other undelivered elements of the arrangement exist on which a portion of the total fee would be allocated based on vendor-specific objective evidence. 
Service revenue. 
Revenue from services includes extended warranty, customer support, consulting, training and education. Service revenue is deferred and recognized over the contractual period or as services are rendered and accepted by the customer. For example, customer support contracts are recognized ratably over the contractual period, while training revenue is recognized as the training is provided to the customer. In addition the four revenue recognition criteria described above must be met before service revenue is recognized. 
Multiple element arrangements. 
We use verifiable objective evidence of fair value or vendor-specific objective evidence of fair value for software to allocate revenue to elements in multiple element arrangements. We recognize revenue for delivered elements only when delivered elements have stand alone value, fair value of undelivered elements are known and there are no customer negotiated refund or return rights affecting the revenue recognized for the delivered elements. If the criteria are not met, then revenue is deferred until such criteria are met or until the period(s) over which the last undelivered element is delivered. In the absence of fair value of a delivered element, we allocate revenue to the fair value of the undelivered elements and the residual revenue to the delivered elements. The price charged when an element is sold separately generally determines fair value. 
Deferred revenue. 
Amounts billed or collected in advance of the period in which the related product or service qualifies for revenue recognition are recorded as deferred revenue. 
Accounts receivable, net. 
Trade accounts receivable are recorded at the invoiced amount and do not bear interest. Such accounts receivable has been reduced by an allowance for doubtful accounts, which is our best estimate of the amount of probable credit losses in our existing accounts receivable. We determine the allowance based on customer specific experience and the aging of such receivables, among other factors. We do not have any off-balance-sheet credit exposure related to our customers. Accounts receivable are also recorded net of product returns. 
Share-based compensation. 
For the years ended 2010, 2009 and 2008, we accounted for share-based awards made to our employees and directors including employee stock option awards, restricted stock units, employee stock purchases made under our Employee Stock Purchase Plan ("ESPP") and performance share awards under Agilent Technologies, Inc. Long-Term Performance Program ("LTPP") using the estimated grant date fair value method of accounting in accordance with the revised authoritative guidance. Under the fair value method, we recorded compensation expense for all share-based awards of $66 million in 2010, $71 million in 2009 and $82 million in 2008. 
Inventory. 
Inventory is valued at standard cost, which approximates actual cost computed on a first-in, first-out basis, not in excess of market value. We assess the valuation of our inventory on a periodic basis and make adjustments to the value for estimated excess and obsolete inventory based on estimates about future demand. The excess balance determined by this analysis becomes the basis for our excess inventory charge. Our excess inventory review process includes analysis of sales forecasts, 75 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) managing product rollovers and working with manufacturing to maximize recovery of excess inventory. 
Taxes on income. 
Income tax expense or benefit is based on income or loss before taxes. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized principally for the expected tax consequences of temporary differences between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their reported amounts. 
Warranty. 
Our standard warranty terms typically extend for one year from the date of delivery. We accrue for standard warranty costs based on historical trends in warranty charges as a percentage of net product revenue . The accrual is reviewed regularly and periodically adjusted to reflect changes in warranty cost estimates. Estimated warranty charges are recorded within cost of products at the time products are sold. See Note 16, "Guarantees". 
Shipping and handling costs. 
Our shipping and handling costs charged to customers are included in net revenue, and the associated expense is recorded in cost of products for all periods presented. 
Goodwill and Purchased Intangible Assets. 
We review goodwill for impairment annually as of September 30 and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable in accordance with the authoritative guidance. The circumstances that could trigger a goodwill impairment could include, but are not limited to, the following items to the extent that management believes the occurrence of one or more would make it more likely than not that we would fail the first step of the goodwill impairment test (as described in the next paragraph): significant adverse change in legal factors or in the business climate, an adverse action or assessment by a regulator, unanticipated competition, a loss of key personnel, a more-likely-than-not expectation that a reporting unit or a significant portion of a reporting unit will be sold or otherwise disposed of, a portion of a reporting unit's goodwill has been included in the carrying amounts of a business that will be disposed or if our market capitalization is below our net book value. 
The provisions of authoritative guidance require that we perform a two-step impairment test on goodwill. In the first step, we compare the fair value of each reporting unit to its carrying value. The second step (if necessary) measures the amount of impairment by applying fair-value-based tests to the individual assets and liabilities within each reporting unit. As defined in the authoritative guidance, a reporting unit is an operating segment, or one level below an operating segment. Accordingly, we have aggregated components of an operating segment that have similar economic characteristics into our reporting units. At the time of an acquisition, we assign goodwill to the reporting unit that is expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination. For 2010, Agilent had three reporting units, which were the same as our operating segments: life sciences, chemical analysis and electronic measurement. 
The process of evaluating the potential impairment of goodwill is highly subjective and requires significant judgment, as our businesses operate in a number of markets and geographical regions. We determine the fair value of our reporting units based on an income approach, whereby we calculate the fair value of each reporting unit based on the present value of estimated future cash flows, which are formed by evaluating historical trends, current budgets, operating plans and industry data. We evaluate the reasonableness of the fair value calculations of our reporting units by reconciling the total of the fair values of all of our reporting units to our total market capitalization, taking into account an 76 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) appropriate control premium. We then compare the carrying value of our reporting units to the fair value calculations based on the income approach noted above. 
If the estimated fair value of a reporting unit exceeds its carrying amount, goodwill of the reporting unit is not impaired and the second step of the impairment test is not necessary. If the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its estimated fair value, then the second step of the goodwill impairment test must be performed. The second step of the goodwill impairment test compares the implied fair value of the reporting unit's goodwill with its goodwill carrying amount to measure the amount of impairment, if any. The implied fair value of goodwill is determined by allocating the fair value of the reporting unit's assets and liabilities in a manner similar to a purchase price allocation, with any residual fair value allocated to goodwill. If the carrying value of a reporting unit's goodwill exceeds its implied fair value, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to that excess. Estimates of the future cash flows associated with the businesses are critical to these assessments. Changes in these estimates based on changed economic conditions or business strategies could result in material impairment charges in future periods. 
Purchased intangible assets consist primarily of acquired developed technologies, proprietary know-how, trademarks, and customer relationships and are amortized using the straight-line method over estimated useful lives ranging from 6 months to 15 years. In process research and development ("IPR&D") is initially capitalized at fair value as an intangible asset with an indefinite life and assessed for impairment thereafter. When the IPR&D project is complete, it is reclassified as an amortizable purchased intangible asset and is amortized over its estimated useful life. If an IPR&D project is abandoned, Agilent will record a charge for the value of the related intangible asset to Agilent's consolidated statement of operations in the period it is abandoned. 
Advertising. 
Advertising costs are expensed as incurred and amounted to $45 million in 2010, $36 million in 2009 and $45 million in 2008 for Agilent operations. 
Research and development. 
Costs related to research, design and development of our products are charged to research and development expense as they are incurred. 
Sales Taxes. 
Sales taxes collected from customers and remitted to governmental authorities are not included in our revenue. 
Net income (loss) per share. 
Basic net income (loss) per share is computed by dividing net income (loss) the numerator by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding the denominator during the period excluding the dilutive effect of stock options and other employee stock plans. Diluted net income per share gives effect to all potentially dilutive common stock equivalents outstanding during the period. In computing diluted net income per share under the treasury stock method, the average stock price for the period is used in determining the number of shares assumed to be purchased from the proceeds of stock option exercises. The number of shares assumed to be purchased also considers the amount of unrecognized compensation cost for future service. As a result of the company's net loss in 2009, the computation of diluted net loss per share for 2009 excludes the diluted impact of all common stock equivalents outstanding. Diluted net income (loss) per share for fiscal years 2010, 2009 and 2008 excluded the potentially dilutive effect of 11 million, 29 million and 7 million options to purchase common stock, respectively, as their effect was antidilutive. 
77 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Cash, cash equivalents and short term investments. 
We classify investments as cash equivalents if their original or remaining maturity is three months or less at the date of purchase. Cash equivalents are stated at cost, which approximates fair value. 
As of October 31, 2010, approximately 37 percent of our cash and cash equivalents is held in the U.S. and 40 percent is held in a centrally managed global cash pool outside the U.S. The remainder is held by other Agilent entities throughout the world. Approximately 12 percent of our overall cash and cash equivalents is maintained in demand deposit accounts with global financial institutions of high credit quality and is available to be used in paying and receiving activities. The remainder is invested in institutional money market funds, short-term bank time deposits and similar short duration instruments with fixed maturities from overnight to three months. We continuously monitor the creditworthiness of the financial institutions and institutional money market funds in which we invest our funds. 
We classify investments as short-term investments if their original or remaining maturities are greater than three months and their remaining maturities are one year or less. 
Restricted cash and cash equivalents was $1.6 billion in 2010 and 2009 mostly held in commercial paper. 
Fair Value of Financial Instruments. 
The carrying values of certain of our financial instruments including cash and cash equivalents, restricted cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, accounts payable, short-term debt, accrued compensation and other accrued liabilities approximate fair value because of their short maturities. Agilent determines the fair value of short-term and long-term investments in debt securities considering information obtained from independent pricing sources. The fair value of long-term equity investments is determined using quoted market prices for those securities when available. The fair value of foreign currency contracts used for hedging purposes is estimated internally by using inputs tied to active markets. See also Note 12, "Fair Value Measurements" for additional information on the fair value of financial instruments. 
Concentration of credit risk. 
Financial instruments that potentially subject Agilent to significant concentration of credit risk include money market fund investments, time deposits, commercial paper and demand deposit balances. These investments are categorized as cash and cash equivalents, restricted cash and cash equivalents and short-term and long-term investments. In addition, Agilent has credit risk from derivative financial instruments used in hedging activities and accounts receivable. We invest in a variety of financial instruments and limit the amount of credit exposure with any one financial institution. Credit risk with respect to our accounts receivable is diversified due to the large number of entities comprising our customer base and their dispersion across many different industries and geographies. We have a comprehensive credit policy in place and exposure to credit risk is monitored on an ongoing basis. Credit evaluations are performed on all customers requiring credit over a certain amount and we sell the majority of our products through our direct sales force. Credit risk is mitigated through collateral such as letter of credit, bank guarantees or payment terms like cash in advance. Credit evaluation is performed by an independent team to ensure proper segregation of duties. No single customer accounted for more than 10 percent or more of combined accounts receivable as of October 31, 2010 and October 31, 2009. 
78 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Derivative instruments. 
Agilent is exposed to global market exchange rate and interest rate risks in the normal course of business. We enter into foreign exchange contracts, primarily forward contracts and purchased options and interest rate swaps to manage financial exposures resulting from changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. In the vast majority of cases, these contracts are designated at inception as hedges of the related foreign currency or interest exposures. Foreign currency exposures include committed and anticipated revenue and expense transactions and assets and liabilities that are denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the subsidiary. Interest rate exposures are associated with the company's fixed-rate debt. For option contracts, we exclude time value from the measurement of effectiveness. To achieve hedge accounting, contracts must reduce the foreign currency exchange rate and interest rate risk otherwise inherent in the amount and duration of the hedged exposures and comply with established risk management policies; foreign exchange hedging contracts generally mature within twelve months and interest rate swaps mature at the same time as the maturity of the debt. In order to manage foreign currency exposures in a few limited jurisdictions, such as China, we may enter into foreign exchange contracts that do not qualify for hedge accounting. In such circumstances, the local foreign currency exposure is offset by contracts owned by the parent company. We do not use derivative financial instruments for speculative trading purposes. 
All derivatives are recognized on the balance sheet at their fair values. For derivative instruments that are designated and qualify as a fair value hedge, changes in value of the derivative are recognized in the consolidated statement of operations in the current period, along with the offsetting gain or loss on the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk. For derivative instruments that are designated and qualify as a cash flow or net investment hedge, changes in the value of the effective portion of the derivative instrument is recognized in accumulated comprehensive income, a component of stockholders' equity. Amounts associated with cash flow hedges are reclassified and recognized in income when either the forecasted transaction occurs or it becomes probable the forecasted transaction will not occur. Amounts associated with net investment hedges are recognized only when the subsidiary is sold or liquidated. Derivatives not designated as hedging instruments are recorded on the balance sheet at their fair value and changes in the fair values are recorded in the income statement in the current period. Derivative instruments are subject to master netting arrangements and qualify for net presentation in the balance sheet. Changes in the fair value of the ineffective portion of derivative instruments are recognized in earnings in the current period. Ineffectiveness in 2010, 2009 and 2008 was not significant. 
Property, plant and equipment. 
Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation. Additions, improvements and major renewals are capitalized; maintenance, repairs and minor renewals are expensed as incurred. When assets are retired or disposed of, the assets and related accumulated depreciation and amortization are removed from our general ledger, and the resulting gain or loss is reflected in the consolidated statement of operations. Buildings and improvements are depreciated over the lesser of their useful lives or the remaining term of the lease and machinery and equipment over three to ten years. We currently use the straight-line method to depreciate assets. 
Leases. 
We lease buildings, machinery and equipment under operating leases for original terms ranging generally from one to fifteen years. Certain leases contain renewal options for periods up to six years. 
79 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Capitalized software. 
We capitalize certain internal and external costs incurred to acquire or create internal use software. Capitalized software is included in property, plant and equipment and is depreciated over three to five years once development is complete. 
Impairment of long-lived assets. 
We continually monitor events and changes in circumstances that could indicate carrying amounts of long-lived assets, including intangible assets, may not be recoverable. When such events or changes in circumstances occur, we assess the recoverability of long-lived assets by determining whether the carrying value of such assets will be recovered through undiscounted expected future cash flows. If the total of the undiscounted future cash flows is less than the carrying amount of those assets, we recognize an impairment loss based on the excess of the carrying amount over the fair value of the assets. 
Employee compensation and benefits. 
Amounts owed to employees, such as accrued salary, bonuses and vacation benefits are accounted for within employee compensation and benefits. The total amount of accrued vacation benefit was $ 142 million as of October 31, 2010 and $133 million as of October 31, 2009. 
Foreign currency translation. 
We translate and remeasure balance sheet and income statement items into U.S. dollars. For those subsidiaries that operate in a local currency functional environment, all assets and liabilities are translated into U.S. dollars using current exchange rates; revenue and expenses are translated using monthly exchange rates which approximate to average exchange rates in effect during each period. Resulting translation adjustments are reported as a separate component of accumulated comprehensive loss in stockholders' equity. The cumulative translation adjustment balance at October 31, 2010 and 2009 was an unrealized gain of $460 million and $390 million, respectively. 
For those subsidiaries that operate in a U.S. dollar functional environment, foreign currency assets and liabilities are remeasured into U.S. dollars at current exchange rates except for nonmonetary assets and capital accounts which are remeasured at historical exchange rates. Revenue and expenses are generally remeasured at monthly exchange rates which approximate average exchange rates in effect during each period. Gains or losses from foreign currency remeasurement are included in consolidated net income (loss). Net gains or losses resulting from foreign currency transactions, including hedging gains and losses, reported in other income (expense), net and were $1 million net loss for both fiscal years 2010 and 2009 and $4 million net gain for fiscal year 2008. 
2. NEW ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS In September 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued guidance on measurements of fair value. The guidance defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value in accordance with U.S. GAAP, and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. The guidance does not require any new fair value measurements; rather, it applies to other accounting pronouncements that require or permit fair value measurements. In February 2008, the FASB issued authoritative guidance which allowed for the delay of the effective date of the authoritative guidance for nonfinancial assets and nonfinancial liabilities, except for certain items that are recognized or disclosed at fair value in the financial statements on a recurring basis (at least annually). Effective November 1, 2008, we adopted the measurement and disclosure requirements related to financial assets and financial liabilities. The adoption of the guidance for financial assets and financial liabilities did not have a material impact on the company's results of operations or the fair values of its financial 80 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) assets and liabilities. We adopted the provisions for nonfinancial assets and nonfinancial liabilities as of November 1, 2009 and there was no material impact on our consolidated financial statements. 
In December 2007, the FASB issued amendments to the guidance for business combinations. The revised guidance provides the recognition and measurement requirements of identifiable assets and goodwill acquired, liabilities assumed, and any non-controlling interest in the acquiree. It also requires additional disclosures to enable users of the financial statements to evaluate the nature and financial effects of the business combination. As a result of adopting the amended guidance on November 1, 2009, approximately $6 million of business combination costs, previously capitalized, were recognized in net income for the three months ended January 31, 2010. In process research and development ("IPR&D") is initially capitalized at fair value as an intangible asset with an indefinite life and assessed for impairment thereafter. When the IPR&D project is complete, it is reclassified as an amortizable purchased intangible asset and is amortized over its estimated useful life. If an IPR&D project is abandoned, Agilent will record a charge for the value of the related intangible asset to Agilent's consolidated statement of operations in the period it is abandoned. 
In December 2007, the FASB issued new guidance on non-controlling interests in consolidated financial statements. The guidance requires that ownership interests in subsidiaries held by parties other than the parent, and the amount of consolidated net income, be clearly identified, labeled, and presented in the consolidated financial statements. It also requires once a subsidiary is deconsolidated, any retained non-controlling equity investment in the former subsidiary be initially measured at fair value. Sufficient disclosures are required to clearly identify and distinguish between the interests of the parent and the interests of the non-controlling owners. This guidance was effective beginning November 1, 2009 and had no material impact on our consolidated financial statements. 
In January 2010, the FASB issued guidance that requires new disclosures for fair value measurements and provides clarification for existing disclosure requirements. The guidance is effective for interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2009, except for gross presentation of activity in level 3 which is effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2010, and for interim periods in those years. We adopted the guidance for new disclosures for fair value measurements and clarification for existing disclosure requirements as of February 1, 2010 and there was no material impact on our consolidated financial statements. We do not expect a material impact on our consolidated financial statements when we adopt the guidance for level 3 activity. See Note 12, "Fair Value Measurements" for additional information on the fair value of financial instruments. 
In December 2008, the FASB issued amendments to provide guidance on an employer's disclosures about plan assets of a defined benefit pension or other postretirement plan. The guidance requires detailed disclosures regarding the investment strategies, fair value measurements, and concentrations of risk of plan assets of a defined benefit pension or other postretirement plan. The authoritative guidance is effective for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2009 and will be applied prospectively. As required, the company has adopted the guidance effective October 31, 2010 (see Note 15, "Retirement Plans and Post Retirement Pension Plans"). The adoption of the amendments did not have a material impact to our consolidated financial statements. 
In October 2009, the FASB amended revenue recognition guidance for arrangements with multiple deliverables. The guidance eliminates the residual method of revenue recognition and allows the use of management's best estimate of selling price for individual elements of an arrangement when vendor 81 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) specific objective evidence (VSOE), vendor objective evidence (VOE) or third-party evidence (TPE) is unavailable. This guidance should be applied on a prospective basis for revenue arrangements entered into or materially modified in fiscal years beginning on or after June 15, 2010, with early adoption permitted. Full retrospective application of the guidance is optional. We are still in the process of evaluating the impact of adopting this guidance but do not expect it to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. 
In October 2009, the FASB issued guidance which amends the scope of existing software revenue recognition accounting. Tangible products containing software components and non-software components that function together to deliver the product's essential functionality would be scoped out of the accounting guidance on software and accounted for based on other appropriate revenue recognition guidance. This guidance should be applied on a prospective basis for revenue arrangements entered into or materially modified in fiscal years beginning on or after June 15, 2010, with early adoption permitted. Full retrospective application of the new guidance is optional. This guidance must be adopted in the same period that we adopt the amended accounting for arrangements with multiple deliverables described in the preceding paragraph. We are still in the process of evaluating the impact of adopting this guidance but do not expect it to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. 
In April 2010, the FASB issued guidance on defining a milestone and determining when it may be appropriate to apply the milestone method of revenue recognition for research or development transactions. The guidance is effective on a prospective basis for milestones achieved in fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning on or after June 15, 2010, with early adoption permitted. We do not expect a material impact on our consolidated financial statements due to the adoption of this guidance. 
3. ACQUISITION OF VARIAN On May 14, 2010, we completed the previously announced acquisition of Varian through the merger of Varian and Cobalt Acquisition Corp., a direct wholly-owned subsidiary of Agilent (the "Purchaser") under the Merger Agreement, dated July 26, 2009. As a result of the merger, Varian has become a wholly-owned subsidiary of Agilent. Accordingly, the results of Varian are included in Agilent's consolidated financial statements from the date of the merger. For the period from May 15, 2010 to October 31, 2010, Varian's net revenue was $320 million. 
The consideration paid was approximately $1,507 million, comprising $52 cash per share of Varian's outstanding common stock. We also paid $17 million to acquire Varian's vested in-the money stock options at $52 cash per share less their exercise price. In addition we paid $12 million for Varian's non-vested in-the-money stock options at $52 cash per share less their exercise price, Varian's non-vested restricted stock awards and non-vested performance shares, at 100 percent of target each at $52 cash per share. In accordance with the authoritative accounting guidance, settlement of the non-vested awards is considered to be for the performance of post combination services and is therefore stock-based compensation expensed immediately after acquisition. Agilent funded the acquisition using the proceeds from our September 2009 offering of senior notes and other existing cash. 
82 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) The Varian merger was accounted for in accordance with the authoritative accounting guidance. The acquired assets and assumed liabilities were recorded by Agilent at their estimated fair values. Agilent determined the estimated fair values with the assistance of appraisals or valuations performed by independent third party specialists, discounted cash flow analyses, quoted market prices where available, and estimates made by management. We expect to realize operational and cost synergies, leverage the existing sales channels and product development resources, and utilize the assembled workforce. The company expects the combined entity to achieve significant savings in corporate and divisional overhead costs. The company also anticipates opportunities for growth through expanded geographic and customer segment diversity and the ability to leverage additional products and capabilities. These factors, among others, contributed to a purchase price in excess of the estimated fair value of Varian's net identifiable assets acquired (see summary of net assets below), and, as a result, we have recorded goodwill in connection with this transaction. 
Goodwill acquired was allocated to our operating segments and reporting units as a part of the purchase price allocation. We do not expect the goodwill recognized to be deductible for income tax purposes. Any impairment charges made in the future associated with goodwill will not be tax deductible. 
A portion of the overall purchase price was allocated to acquired intangible assets. Amortization expense associated with acquired intangible assets is not deductible for tax purposes. Therefore, approximately $138 million was established as a deferred tax liability for the future amortization of these intangibles. 
The following table summarizes the allocation of the purchase price to the estimated fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed on the closing date of May 14, 2010 (in millions): The fair value of cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, other current assets, accounts payable and other accrued liabilities were generally determined using historical carrying values given the short-term nature of these assets and liabilities. 
83 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) The fair values for acquired inventory, property, plant and equipment, intangible assets, retirement and post-retirement benefits, and deferred revenue were determined with the assistance of valuations performed by independent valuation specialists. 
The fair values of certain other assets, long-term debt, and certain other long-term liabilities were determined internally using discounted cash flow analyses and estimates made by management. 
The company has completed its business combination accounting as of May 14, 2010. 
Valuations of intangible assets acquired The components of intangible assets acquired in connection with the Varian acquisition were as follows (in millions): Acquisition and integration costs directly related to the Varian merger totaled $102 million for the year ended October 31, 2010 and were substantially recorded in selling, general and administrative expenses. Such costs are expensed in accordance with the authoritative accounting guidance. 
The following represents pro forma operating results as if Varian had been included in the company's condensed consolidated statements of operations as of the beginning of the fiscal years presented (in millions, except per share amounts): The pro forma financial information assumes that the companies were combined as of November 1, 2009 and 2008 and include business combination accounting effects from the acquisition including amortization charges from acquired intangible assets, reduction in revenue and increase in cost of sales due to the respective estimated fair value adjustments to deferred revenue and inventory, decrease to interest income for cash used in the acquisition, increase in interest expense associated with debt issue to fund the acquisition, acquisition related transaction costs and tax related effects. The pro forma information as presented above is for informational purposes only and is not indicative of the results of operations that would have been achieved if the acquisition had taken place at the beginning of fiscal 2010 and 2009. 
84 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) The unaudited pro forma financial information for the year ended October 31, 2010 combine the historical results of Agilent for the year ended October 31, 2010 (which include Varian after the acquisition date) and the historical results of Varian for the six months ended April 2, 2010 and the period May 1, 2010 to May 14, 2010. 
The unaudited pro forma financial information for the year ended October 31, 2009 combine the historical results of Agilent for the year ended October 31, 2009 and the historical results for Varian for the year ended October 2, 2009 (due to differences in reporting periods). 
4. SHARE-BASED COMPENSATION Agilent accounts for share-based awards in accordance with the provisions of the revised accounting guidance which requires the measurement and recognition of compensation expense for all share-based payment awards made to our employees and directors including employee stock option awards, restricted stock units, employee stock purchases made under our ESPP and performance share awards granted to selected members of our senior management under the LTPP based on estimated fair values. 
Description of Share-Based Plans Employee stock purchase plan. 
Effective November 1, 2000, we adopted the ESPP. Prior to November 1, 2008, under the provisions of the ESPP, eligible employees could contribute up to ten percent of their base compensation to purchase shares of our common stock at 85 percent of the lower of the fair market value at the entry date or the purchase date of each offering period, as defined by the ESPP. Effective November 1, 2008, the Compensation Committee of Board of Directors approved a change to our ESPP that eliminated the look back period. The ESPP will continue to allow eligible employees to purchase shares of our common stock at 85 percent of the purchase price, but only uses the purchase date to establish the fair market value. As of October 31, 2010, the number of shares of common stock authorized and available for issuance under our ESPP was 31,384,979. Shares authorized for issuance in connection with the ESPP are subject to an automatic annual increase of the lesser of one percent of the outstanding shares of common stock of Agilent on November 1, or an amount determined by the Compensation Committee of our Board of Directors. Under the terms of the ESPP, in no event shall the number of shares issued under the ESPP exceed 75 million shares. 
Incentive compensation plans. 
On November 19, 2008 and March 11, 2009, the Compensation Committee of Board of Directors and the stockholders, respectively, approved the Agilent Technologies, Inc. 2009 Stock Plan (the "2009 Stock Plan") to replace the Company's 1999 Stock Plan and 1999 Stock Non-Employee Director Stock Plan and subsequently reserved 25 million shares of Company common stock that may be issued under the 2009 Plan, plus any shares forfeited or cancelled under the 1999 Stock Plan. The 2009 Stock Plan provides for the grant of awards in the form of stock options, stock appreciation rights ("SARs"), restricted stock, restricted stock units ("RSUs"), performance shares and performance units with performance-based conditions on vesting or exercisability, and cash awards. The 2009 Plan has a term of ten years. As of October 31, 2010, 23,937,201 shares were available for future awards under the 2009 Stock Plan. 
Stock options granted under the 2009 Stock Plans may be either "incentive stock options", as defined in Section 422 of the Internal Revenue Code, or non-statutory. Options generally vest at a rate of 25 percent per year over a period of four years from the date of grant and generally have a maximum 85 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) contractual term of ten years. The exercise price for stock options is generally not less than 100 percent of the fair market value of our common stock on the date the stock award is granted. 
Effective November 1, 2003, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors approved the LTPP, which is a performance stock award program under the 1999 and 2009 Stock Plans, for the company's executive officers and other key employees. Participants in this program are entitled to receive unrestricted shares of the company's stock after the end of a three-year period, if specified performance targets are met. LTPP awards are generally designed to meet the criteria of a performance award with the performance metrics and peer group comparison set at the beginning of the performance period. Based on the performance metrics the final award may vary from zero to 200 percent of the target award. The maximum contractual term for awards under the LTPP program is three years. We consider the dilutive impact of this program in our diluted net income (loss) per share calculation only to the extent that the performance conditions are met. 
In March 2007, we began to issue restricted stock units under our share-based plans. The estimated fair value of the restricted stock unit awards granted under the Stock Plans is determined based on the market price of Agilent's common stock on the date of grant. Restricted stock units generally vest at a rate of 25 percent per year over a period of four years from the date of grant. 
Impact of Share-Based Compensation Awards We have recognized compensation expense based on the estimated grant date fair value method under the revised authoritative guidance. For all share-based awards we have recognized compensation expense using a straight-line amortization method. As the guidance requires that share-based compensation expense be based on awards that are ultimately expected to vest, estimated share-based compensation has been reduced for estimated forfeitures. 
The impact on our results for share-based compensation was as follows: At October 31, 2010 there was no share-based compensation capitalized within inventory. Income tax benefit recognized in 2010, 2009 and 2008 in the statement of operations for share-based compensation was not material. The weighted average grant date fair value of options, granted in 2010, 2009 and 2008 was $9.81, $5.77 and $12.01 per share, respectively. 
Included in the 2010 and 2009 expense is incremental expense for the acceleration of share-based compensation related to the announced workforce reduction plan was $2 million and $5 million respectively. Upon termination of the employees impacted by workforce reduction, the non-vested Agilent awards held by these employees immediately vest. Employees have a period of up to three months in which to exercise the Agilent options before such options are cancelled. In addition, in 2010, we reversed approximately $3 million of expense for the cancellation of non-vested awards related to the separation of a senior executive. 
86 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Valuation Assumptions For all periods presented, the fair value of share based awards for employee stock option awards was estimated using the Black-Scholes option pricing model. For all periods presented, shares granted under the LTPP were valued using a Monte Carlo simulation. As a result of the change in our ESPP effective November 1, 2008, no Black-Scholes assumptions were required in the valuation of awards granted under our current ESPP for 2010 and 2009. For 2008, the value of share-based awards for ESPP awards was estimated using the Black-Scholes option pricing model. The estimated fair value of restricted stock unit awards was determined based on the market price of Agilent's common stock on the date of grant. 
The assumptions used to estimate the fair value of employee stock options granted, ESPP purchases and the LTPP were as follows: Both the Black-Scholes and Monte Carlo simulation fair value models require the use of highly subjective and complex assumptions, including the option's expected life and the price volatility of the underlying stock. For 2010 and 2009 the expected stock price volatility assumption was determined using the historical volatility of Agilent's stock options over the most recent historical period equivalent to the expected life. For 2008, we used implied volatility of Agilent's publicly traded, similarly priced, stock options to estimate the expected stock price volatility assumption for employee stock option awards. Management believes that based on current data historical period estimates of volatility are more appropriate than implied volatility. In reaching this conclusion, we have considered many factors including the limited number of Agilent options currently traded and our limited ability to find traded options in the current market with similar terms and prices to the options we are valuing. 
In the first quarter of 2009, we revised our estimate of the expected life of our employee stock options from 4.6 years to 4.4 years. In revising the estimate, we considered the historical option exercise behavior of our employees, which we believe is representative of future behavior. In the first quarter of 2009, we granted the majority of our employee stock options to executive employees and the 87 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) review of our data indicated that our executive employees, on average, exercise their options at 4.4 years. There was no change to the expected life of our employee stock options in 2010. 
Share-Based Payment Award Activity Employee Stock Options The following table summarizes employee stock option award activity made to our employees and directors for 2010: The plan shares expired per the above table represent cancelled options granted under the pre-spin Hewlett Packard stock option plan that are not added back to our available for grant options. 
Forfeited and expired options from total cancellations in 2010 were as follows: The options outstanding and exercisable for equity share-based payment awards at October 31, 2010 were as follows: 88 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) The aggregate intrinsic value in the table above represents the total pre-tax intrinsic value, based on the company's closing stock price of $34.80 at October 29, 2010, which would have been received by award holders had all award holders exercised their awards that were in-the-money as of that date. The total number of in-the-money awards exercisable at October 31, 2010 was approximately 17 million. 
The following table summarizes the aggregate intrinsic value of options exercised and the fair value of options granted in 2010, 2009 and 2008: As of October 31, 2010, the unrecognized share-based compensation costs for outstanding stock option awards, net of expected forfeitures, was approximately $10 million which is expected to be amortized over a weighted-average period of 2.5 years. The amount of cash received from the exercise of share-based awards granted was $299 million in 2010, $71 million in 2009 and $211 million in 2008. See Note 5, "Provision for Income Taxes" for the tax impact on share-based award exercises. 
Non-vested Awards The following table summarizes non-vested award activity in 2010 primarily for our LTPP and restricted stock unit awards: As of October 31, 2010, the unrecognized share-based compensation costs for non-vested restricted stock awards, net of expected forfeitures, was approximately $37 million which is expected to be amortized over a weighted-average period of 2.3 years. The total fair value of restricted stock awards vested was $35 million for 2010, $25 million for 2009 and $40 million for 2008. 
89 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 5. PROVISION FOR INCOME TAXES The provision for income taxes is comprised of: The income tax provisions do not reflect potential future tax savings resulting from excess deductions associated with our various share-based award plans. 
The significant components of deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities included on the consolidated balance sheet are: 90 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) The breakdown between current and non-current deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities was as follows for the years 2010 and 2009: The consolidated balance sheet reflects the allocation of the valuation allowance based on the pro-rata portion of gross current and non-current deferred tax assets in each jurisdiction where a valuation allowance is required. During 2003, we established valuation allowances for the deferred tax assets of the U.S. and certain entities in foreign jurisdictions. The valuation allowances require an assessment of both positive and negative evidence when determining whether it is more likely than not that deferred tax assets are recoverable. Such assessment is required on a jurisdiction by jurisdiction basis. During 2007, we concluded that it is more likely than not that a significant portion of our U.S. federal deferred tax assets would be realized and reversed a portion of the valuation allowance. During 2008, we maintained a partial U.S. federal valuation allowance and concluded that a significant portion of our U.S. state deferred tax assets would be realized and reversed a portion of the valuation allowance. During 2009 and 2010, we continued to maintain the partial valuation allowances for U.S. federal and state deferred tax assets. We intend to maintain a partial or full valuation allowance in these jurisdictions until sufficient positive evidence exists to support reversal. In 2010, after consideration of all the available positive and negative evidence, we concluded that it is more likely than not that all of the U.K. deferred tax assets will be realized and reversed the entire valuation allowance. 
At October 31, 2010, we had federal net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $26 million and tax credit carryforwards of approximately $162 million. The federal net operating losses expire in years beginning 2015 through 2027, and the federal tax credits begin to expire in 2018, if not utilized. At October 31, 2010, we had state net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $74 million which expire in years beginning 2013 through 2030, if not utilized. In addition, we had state tax credit carryforwards of $46 million that do not expire. All of the federal and some of the state net operating loss carryforwards are subject to change of ownership limitations provided by the Internal Revenue Code and similar state provisions. These annual loss limitations may result in the expiration or reduced utilization of the net operating losses. At October 31, 2010, we also had foreign net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $510 million. Of this foreign loss, $335 million will expire in years beginning 2011 through 2024, if not utilized. The remaining $175 million has an indefinite life. Some of the foreign losses are subject to annual loss limitation rules. 
91 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) The authoritative guidance prohibits recognition of a deferred tax asset for excess tax benefits related to stock and stock option plans that have not yet been realized through reduction in income taxes payable. Such unrecognized deferred tax benefits totaled $161 million as of October 31, 2010 and will be accounted for as a credit to shareholders' equity, if and when realized through a reduction in income taxes payable. 
The differences between the U.S. federal statutory income tax rate and our effective tax rate are: The domestic and foreign components of income (loss) earnings before taxes are: For 2010, the annual effective tax rate was 1 percent. The 1 percent effective tax rate includes a $101 million beneficial release of the U.K. valuation allowance, a $32 million current year increase in prior year tax reserves, and tax on earnings in jurisdictions that have low effective tax rates. Also included is a $17 million tax benefit related to a $54 million non-taxable settlement payment received in connection with a tax sharing agreement between Agilent and Hewlett Packard Company. Without considering interest and penalties, the rate reflects taxes in all jurisdictions except the U.S. and foreign jurisdictions in which income tax expense or benefit continues to be offset by adjustments to valuation allowances. We intend to maintain a partial or full valuation allowances in these jurisdictions until sufficient positive evidence exists to support its reversal. 
For 2009, the annual effective tax rate was 543 percent. The 543 percent effective tax rate reflects that our structure has a fixed component of tax and that on reduced profitability unusual tax rate results. The tax rate also includes tax on earnings in jurisdictions that have low effective tax rates. In addition, net tax benefits totaling $67 million relating primarily to the lapses of statutes of limitations 92 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) and tax settlements in foreign jurisdictions are incorporated in the rate. Without considering interest and penalties, the rate reflects taxes in all jurisdictions except the U.S. and foreign jurisdictions where we have recorded valuation allowances. 
For 2008, the annual effective tax rate was 15 percent. The 15 percent effective tax rate includes a beneficial release of a portion of the U.S. federal and state valuation allowances which results in U.S. tax expense of nearly zero. It also includes tax on earnings in other jurisdictions that have low effective tax rates. Without considering interest and penalties, the provision for taxes was recorded for income generated in jurisdictions other than the Netherlands, Puerto Rico, Switzerland, the U.S., and the U.K. where we have recorded valuation allowances. 
Agilent records U.S. income taxes on the undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries unless the subsidiaries' earnings are considered permanently reinvested outside the U.S. As of October 31, 2010, the cumulative amount of undistributed earnings considered permanently reinvested is $3,414 million. The determination of the unrecognized deferred tax liability on these earnings is not practicable. If management decides to remit these permanently reinvested earnings to the U.S. in a future period, our provision for income taxes may increase materially in that period. 
During 2010 Agilent enjoyed tax holidays in several different jurisdictions, most significantly in Singapore, Malaysia, and Switzerland. However, in 2010 Agilent and the Swiss Authorities mutually agreed to exit the Swiss tax holiday. The impact of exiting this agreement does not have a material impact to the consolidated financial statements. The tax holidays provide lower rates of taxation on certain classes of income and require various thresholds of investments and employment or specific types of income in those jurisdictions. The tax holidays are due for renewal between 2015 and 2023. As a result of the incentives, the impact of the tax holidays decreased income taxes by $62 million, $14 million and $112 million in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The benefit of the tax holidays on net income per share (diluted) was approximately $0.18, $0.04 and $0.30 in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. 
We are subject to ongoing tax examinations of our tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities in various jurisdictions. In accordance with the guidance on the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes, we regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. These assessments can require considerable estimates and judgments. If our estimate of income tax liabilities proves to be less than the ultimate assessment, then a further charge to expense would be required. If events occur and the payment of these amounts ultimately proves to be unnecessary, the reversal of the liabilities would result in tax benefits being recognized in the period when we determine the liabilities are no longer necessary. 
We include interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits within the provision for income taxes on the consolidated statements of operations. As of October 31, 2010, we accrued and reported $53.8 million of interest and penalties relating to unrecognized tax benefits of which $5.4 million was recognized in 2010. As of October 31, 2009, we accrued and reported $41.1 million of interest and penalties relating to unrecognized tax benefits of which $(0.2) million was recognized in 2009. 
93 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) We adopted the authoritative guidance for uncertain tax positions on November 1, 2007. A 2010 and 2009 rollforward of our uncertain tax positions including all federal, state and foreign tax jurisdictions is as follows: In the U.S., the tax years remain open back to the year 2000. In other major jurisdictions where we conduct business, the tax years generally remain open back to the year 2003. It is reasonably possible that changes to our unrecognized tax benefits could be significant in the next twelve months due to lapses of statutes of limitation and tax audit settlements. As a result of uncertainties regarding the timing of the completion of tax audits in various jurisdictions and their possible outcomes, an estimate of the range of increase or decrease that could occur in the next twelve months cannot be made. 
On August 31, 2010 we reached an agreement with the Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") for tax years 2000 through 2002. The adjustments were offset by applying available net operating losses and had no material impact on our Statement of Operations. Our U.S. federal income tax returns for 2003 through 2007 are under audit by the IRS. In December 2010, we reached an agreement with the IRS for tax years 2003-2005. In addition, Agilent and the IRS reached an agreement on transfer pricing issues covering years 2003-2007. Tax adjustments resulting from these agreements will be offset with net operating losses and tax credit carryforwards. 
6. NET INCOME (LOSS) PER SHARE The following is a reconciliation of the numerators and denominators of the basic and diluted net income (loss) per share computations for the periods presented below. As a result of the company's net loss in 2009, the computation of diluted net loss per share for 2009 excludes the diluted impact of all common stock equivalents outstanding. 
94 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) The dilutive effect of share-based awards is reflected in diluted net income (loss) per share by application of the treasury stock method, which includes consideration of unamortized share-based compensation expense and the dilutive effect of in-the-money options and non-vested restricted stock units. Under the treasury stock method, the amount the employee must pay for exercising stock options and unamortized share-based compensation expense are assumed proceeds to be used to repurchase hypothetical shares. An increase in the fair market value of the company's common stock can result in a greater dilutive effect from potentially dilutive awards. The total number of share-based awards issued in 2010, 2009 and 2008 were 13 million, 5 million and 10 million, respectively. 
The following table presents options to purchase shares of common stock, which were not included in the computation of diluted net income (loss) per share because they were anti-dilutive. 
7. SUPPLEMENTAL CASH FLOW INFORMATION Cash paid for income taxes was $48 million in 2010, $113 million in 2009 and $210 million in 2008. Cash paid for interest was $89 million in 2010 and $88 million in 2009 and 2008. 
8. INVENTORY Inventory-related excess and obsolescence charges of $30 million, $54 million and $24 million were recorded in total cost of products in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. We record excess and obsolete inventory charges for both inventory on our site as well as inventory at our contract manufacturers and suppliers where we have non-cancelable purchase commitments. 
95 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 9. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT, NET Asset impairments other than restructuring were $7 million in 2010 and zero and $1 million 2009 and 2008, respectively. Depreciation expenses were $124 million in 2010, $112 million in 2009 and $126 million in 2008. 
10. GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS The goodwill balances at October 31, 2010 and 2009 and the movements in 2010 and 2009 for each of our reportable segments are shown in the table below: 96 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) The component parts of other intangible assets at October 31, 2010 and 2009 are shown in the table below: In 2010, we recorded $794 million of goodwill primarily relating to the Varian acquisition. The Varian acquisition is fully discussed in Note 3. Goodwill was reduced by $38 million due to divestitures of the network systems business and Hycor during 2010. We recorded $422 million of additions to other intangible assets and recorded $13 million of impairment charges to other intangible assets and reduced other intangible assets by $13 million primarily related to divestiture of the Hycor business. 
In 2009, we recorded $5 million of goodwill primarily relating to the purchase of the remaining unowned portion of a joint venture. Goodwill was reduced by $22 million due to businesses that we divested during 2009 some of which had not been fully integrated into Agilent. We recorded zero additions to other intangibles and recorded $16 million of impairment charges to other intangibles primarily related to divested businesses. 
Amortization of intangible assets was $76 million in 2010, $45 million in 2009, and $53 million in 2008. Future amortization expense related to existing purchased intangible assets is estimated to be $105 million in 2011, $85 million for 2012, $70 million for 2013, $61 million for 2014, $50 million for 2015, and $123 million thereafter. 
97 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 11. INVESTMENTS The following table summarizes the company's investments as of October 31, 2010 and 2009 (net book value): Cost method investments consist of non-marketable equity securities and two special funds and are accounted for at historical cost. Trading securities are reported at fair value, with gains or losses resulting from changes in fair value recognized currently in earnings. Investments designated as available-for-sale are reported at fair value, with unrealized gains and losses, net of tax, included in stockholders' equity. 
Investments in available-for-sale securities at estimated fair value were as follows as of October 31, 2010 and October 31, 2009: All of our investments, excluding trading securities, are subject to periodic impairment review. The impairment analysis requires significant judgment to identify events or circumstances that would likely have significant adverse effect on the future value of the investment. We consider various factors in determining whether an impairment is other-than-temporary, including the severity and duration of the impairment, forecasted recovery, the financial condition and near-term prospects of the investee, and our ability and intent to hold the investment for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery in market value. 
98 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Amounts included in other income (expense) for realized gains and losses on the sale of available-for-sale securities and other than temporary impairments were as follows: Net unrealized gains and losses on our trading securities portfolio were $6 million of unrealized gains in 2010, $6 million of unrealized losses in 2009 and $15 million of unrealized losses in 2008. 
Realized gains from the sale of cost method securities were zero for 2010 and $1 million and zero realized gains for 2009 and 2008, respectively. 
12. FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS The authoritative guidance defines fair value as the price that would be received from selling an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. When determining the fair value measurements for assets and liabilities required or permitted to be recorded at fair value, we consider the principal or most advantageous market and assumptions that market participants would use when pricing the asset or liability. 
Fair Value Hierarchy The guidance establishes a fair value hierarchy that prioritizes the use of inputs used in valuation techniques into three levels. A financial instrument's categorization within the fair value hierarchy is based upon the lowest level of input that is significant to the fair value measurement. There are three levels of inputs that may be used to measure fair value: Level 1 applies to assets or liabilities for which there are quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. 
Level 2 applies to assets or liabilities for which there are inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that are observable, either directly or indirectly, for the asset or liability such as: quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities in active markets; quoted prices for identical or similar assets or liabilities in less active markets; or other inputs that can be derived principally from, or corroborated by, observable market data. 
Level 3 applies to assets or liabilities for which there are unobservable inputs to the valuation methodology that are significant to the measurement of the fair value of the assets or liabilities. 
99 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Financial Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis Financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis as of October 31, 2010 were as follows: Our money market funds, trading securities investments, and available-for-sale investments are generally valued using quoted market prices and therefore are classified within level 1 of the fair value hierarchy. Our derivative financial instruments are classified within level 2, as there is not an active market for each hedge contract, but the inputs used to calculate the value of the instruments are tied to active markets. Our commercial paper and deferred compensation liability are classified as level 2 because although the values are not directly based on quoted market prices, the inputs used in the calculations are observable. 
Trading securities and deferred compensation liability are reported at fair value, with gains or losses resulting from changes in fair value recognized currently in net income. Investments designated as available-for-sale and certain derivative instruments are reported at fair value, with unrealized gains and losses, net of tax, included in stockholders' equity. Realized gains and losses from the sale of these instruments are recorded in net income. 
100 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) For assets measured at fair value using significant unobservable inputs (level 3), the following table summarizes the change in balances during 2010 and 2009: Impairment of Investments. 
All of our investments, excluding trading securities, are subject to periodic impairment review. The impairment analysis requires significant judgment to identify events or circumstances that would likely have significant adverse effect on the future value of the investment. We consider various factors in determining whether an impairment is other-than-temporary, including the severity and duration of the impairment, forecasted recovery, the financial condition and near-term prospects of the investee, and our ability and intent to hold the investment for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery in market value. There were no other than temporary impairments for investments during 2010 and we recognized $9 million of other-than-temporary impairments for investments in 2009. Fair values for the impaired investments for 2010 and 2009 were measured using both level 2 and level 3 inputs. 
Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Non- Recurring Basis Impairment of Long-Lived Assets. 
Long-lived assets held and used with a carrying amount of $42 million were written down to their fair value of $30 million, resulting in an impairment charge of $12 million, which was included in net income for 2010. Long-lived assets held for sale with a carrying amount of $30 million were written down to their fair value of $16 million, resulting in an impairment charge of $14 million, which was included in net income for 2010. Fair values for the impaired long-lived assets were measured using level 2 inputs. 
13. DERIVATIVES We are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations and interest rate changes in the normal course of our business. As part of risk management strategy, we use derivative instruments, primarily forward contracts, purchased options, and interest rate swaps, to hedge economic and/or accounting exposures resulting from changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. 
101 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Fair Value Hedges The company enters into fair value hedges to reduce the exposure of our debt portfolio to interest rate risk. We issue long-term senior notes in U.S. dollars based on market conditions at the time of financing. We use interest rate swaps to modify the market risk exposure in connection with fixed interest rate senior notes to U.S. dollar London inter-bank offered rate ("LIBOR")-based floating interest rate. Alternatively, we may choose not to swap fixed for floating interest rate or may terminate a previously executed swap. We designate and qualify these interest rate swaps as fair value hedges of the interest rate risk inherent in the debt. For derivative instruments that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges, we recognize the gain or loss on the derivative instrument, as well as the offsetting loss or gain on the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk, in interest expense, in the consolidated statement of operations. The fair value of the swaps is recorded on the consolidated balance sheet at each period end, with an offsetting entry in senior notes. As of October 31, 2010, there were 14 interest rate swap contracts designated as fair value hedges associated with our 2012, 2015 and 2020 senior notes. The notional amount of these interest rate swap contracts, receive-fixed/pay-variable, was $1,250 million. On November 25, 2008, we terminated two interest rate swap contracts associated with our 2017 senior notes that represented the notional amount of $400 million. The asset value upon termination was approximately $43 million and the amount to be amortized at October 31, 2010 was $35 million. The proceeds were recorded as operating cash flows and the gain is being deferred and amortized over the remaining life of the 2017 senior notes. 
Cash Flow Hedges The company also enters into foreign exchange contracts to hedge our forecasted operational cash flow exposures resulting from changes in foreign currency exchange rates. These foreign exchange contracts, carried at fair value, have maturities between one and twelve months. These derivative instruments are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges under the criteria prescribed in the authoritative guidance. The changes in the value of the effective portion of the derivative instrument are recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income. Amounts associated with cash flow hedges are reclassified to cost of sales in the consolidated statement of operations when either the forecasted transaction occurs or it becomes probable that the forecasted transaction will not occur. Changes in the fair value of the ineffective portion of derivative instruments are recognized in cost of sales in the consolidated statement of operations in the current period. 
Other Hedges Additionally, the company enters into foreign exchange contracts to hedge monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of our subsidiaries. These foreign exchange contracts are carried at fair value and do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment and are not designated as hedging instruments. Changes in value of the derivative are recognized in other income (expense) in the consolidated statement of operations, in the current period, along with the offsetting gain or loss on the underlying assets or liabilities. 
The company's use of derivative instruments exposes it to credit risk to the extent that the counterparties may be unable to meet the terms of the agreement. The company does, however, seek to mitigate such risks by limiting its counterparties to major financial institutions which are selected based on their credit ratings and other factors. We have established policies and procedures for mitigating credit risk that include establishing counterparty credit limits, monitoring credit exposures, and continually assessing the creditworthiness of counterparties. 
102 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) All of our derivative agreements contain threshold limits to the net liability position with counterparties and are dependent on our corporate credit rating determined by the major credit rating agencies. If our corporate credit rating were to fall below investment grade, the counterparties to the derivative instruments may request collateralization on derivative instruments in net liability positions. 
The aggregate fair value of all derivative instruments with credit-risk-related contingent features that were in a net liability position as of October 31, 2010, was approximately $8 million. The credit-risk-related contingent features underlying these agreements had not been triggered as of October 31, 2010. 
There were 90 foreign exchange forward contracts and 7 foreign exchange option contracts open as of October 31, 2010 and designated as cash flow hedges. There were 261 foreign exchange forward contracts open as of October 31, 2010 not designated as hedging instruments. The aggregated notional amounts by currency and designation as of October 31, 2010 were as follows: Derivative instruments are subject to master netting arrangements and qualify for net presentation in the balance sheet. The gross fair values and balance sheet location of derivative 103 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) instruments held in the consolidated balance sheet as of October 31, 2010 and October 31, 2009 were as follows: The effect of derivative instruments for interest rate swap contracts and for foreign exchange contracts designated as hedging instruments and not designated as hedging instruments in our consolidated statement of operations were as follows: 104 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) The estimated net amount of existing loss at October 31, 2010 that is expected to be reclassified from other comprehensive income to the cost of sales within the next twelve months is $1 million. 
14. RESTRUCTURING COSTS, ASSET IMPAIRMENTS AND OTHER SPECIAL CHARGES Our 2005 restructuring program, announced in the fourth quarter of 2005, is largely complete. The remaining obligations under this and previous plans relate primarily to lease obligations that are expected to be satisfied over approximately the next year. 
Our 2009 restructuring program, the ("FY 2009 Plan"), announced in the first half of 2009, was conceived in response to deteriorating economic conditions and was designed to deliver sufficient savings to enable our businesses to reach their profitability targets throughout the cycle. Workforce reduction payments, primarily severance, were largely complete in fiscal year 2010. Lease payments should primarily be complete by the end of fiscal 2014, and payments to suppliers in connection with inventory should be complete in fiscal year 2011. As of October 31, 2010, a small number of employees within electronic measurement are pending termination under the FY 2009 Plan. 
Special charges in 2009 related to inventory include estimated future payments that we are contractually obliged to make to our suppliers in connection with future inventory purchases and inventory on hand written down. In both cases, actions taken under our FY 2009 Plan, including exiting lines of business, have caused the value of this inventory to decrease below its cost. 
A summary of total restructuring activity and other special charges is shown in the table below: The restructuring and other special accruals for all plans, which totaled $35 million at October 31, 2010, are recorded in other accrued liabilities and other long-term liabilities on the consolidated balance sheet. These balances reflect estimated future cash outlays. 
105 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) A summary of the charges/(income) in the consolidated statement of operations resulting from all restructuring plans is shown below: 15. RETIREMENT PLANS AND POST RETIREMENT PENSION PLANS General. 
Substantially all of our employees are covered under various defined benefit and/or defined contribution pension plans. Additionally, we sponsor post-retirement health care benefits and a death benefit under the Agilent Survivor Protection Plan for our eligible U.S. employees. 
Agilent provides U.S. employees, who meet eligibility criteria under the retirement plan, defined benefits which are based on an employee's base or target pay during the years of employment and on length of service. For eligible service through October 31, 1993, the benefit payable under the Agilent Retirement Plan is reduced by any amounts due to the eligible employee under our defined contribution Deferred Profit-Sharing Plan ("DPSP"), which was closed to new participants as of November 1993. 
In addition, in the U.S., Agilent maintains the Supplemental Benefits Retirement Plan ("SBRP"), a supplemental unfunded non-qualified defined benefit plan to provide benefits that would be provided under the Retirement Plan ("RP") but for limitations imposed by the Internal Revenue Code. The RP and the SBRP comprise the "U.S. Plans". 
As of October 31, 2010 and 2009, the fair value of plan assets of the DPSP for U.S. Agilent Employees was $516 million and $517 million, respectively. Note that the projected benefit obligation for the DPSP equals the fair value of plan assets. 
Eligible employees outside the U.S. generally receive retirement benefits under various retirement plans based upon factors such as years of service and/or employee compensation levels. Eligibility is generally determined in accordance with local statutory requirements. Our U.S. retirees who retired prior to January 1, 2005, are also covered by a lump sum death benefit that is part of the Agilent Survivor Protection Plan. In July 2004, the Agilent Survivor Protection Plan was revised to eliminate the $5,000 Retiree Survivor Benefit for all U.S. retirees who retire on or after January 1, 2005. See also Plan Amendments below. 
401(k) defined contribution plan. 
Eligible U.S. employees may participate in the Agilent Technologies, Inc. 401(k) Plan (the "401(k) Plan"). Enrollment in the 401(k) Plan is automatic for employees who meet eligibility requirements unless they decline participation. Under the 401(k) Plan, we provide matching contributions to employees up to a maximum of 4 percent of an employee's annual eligible compensation. The maximum contribution to the 401(k) Plan is 50 percent of an employee's annual eligible compensation, subject to regulatory limitations. The 401(k) Plan expense 106 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) included in income from operations was $21 million in 2010, $23 million in 2009 and $26 million in 2008. 
Post-retirement medical benefit plans. 
In addition to receiving pension benefits, our U.S. employees who meet eligibility requirements as of their termination date may participate in our Non-Medicare Medical Plan, and if eligible, the Medicare Medical Plan under the Agilent Health Plan. These two plans are the Post-Retirement Benefit Plans. Current U.S. employees may become eligible for these benefits, and the existing benefit obligation relates primarily to those employees. Eligible retirees may choose from managed-care and indemnity options, with the company subsidization level dependent on a number of factors including employment status as of January 1, 2005, the option chosen, and length of service. 
Plan Amendments. 
On July 14, 2009 the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors approved design changes to Agilent's U.S. Plans. Effective October 31, 2009, benefits under the previous U.S. Plans formula were frozen and all future benefit accruals for existing employees and new hires are calculated using the new formula. The new formula allocates a percentage of each month's eligible earnings to be payable as a lump sum at age 65 whereas the previous formula defined a monthly annuity payable at age 65. In addition, effective November 1, 2009, the $5,000 Retiree Survivor Benefit under the Agilent Survivor Protection Plan was discontinued. 
Due to these plan amendments, we recorded gains of $117 million and $15 million in accumulated other comprehensive loss in 2009 for the U.S. Plans and U.S. post retirement benefit plans, respectively. 
Components of net periodic cost. 
The company uses alternate methods of amortization as allowed by the authoritative guidance which amortizes the actuarial gains and losses on a consistent basis for the years presented. For U.S. Plans, gains and losses are amortized over the average future working lifetime. For most Non-U.S. Plans and U.S. Post-Retirement Benefit Plans, gains and losses are amortized using a separate layer for each year's gains and losses. For the years ended October 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, our net pension and post-retirement benefit costs were comprised of: In 2009, as a result of reductions in workforce, we recorded a $3 million curtailment gain and a $13 million curtailment gain in the income statement for the Non-U.S. Plans and U.S. Post-Retirement Benefit Plans, respectively. 
107 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) In 2010, due to reductions in workforce which impacted two non-U.S. plans, we recorded curtailment losses as required by authoritative guidance with no impact to the income statement. 
Funded status. 
As of October 31, 2010 and 2009, the funded status of the defined benefit and post-retirement benefit plans was: 108 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) The amounts in accumulated other comprehensive income expected to be recognized as components of net expense during 2011 are as follows: Investment policies and strategies as of October 31, 2010 and 2009. 
In the U.S., our Agilent Retirement Plan and post-retirement benefit target asset allocations are approximately 80 percent to equities and approximately 20 percent to fixed income investments. Our DPSP target asset allocation is approximately 60 percent to equities and approximately 40 percent to fixed income investments. Approximately, 5 percent of our U.S. equity portfolio consists of limited partnerships. The general investment objective for all our plan assets is to obtain the optimum rate of investment return on the total investment portfolio consistent with the assumption of a reasonable level of risk. The safety and protection of principal is a primary concern, and we believe that a well-diversified investment portfolio will result in the highest attainable investment return (income plus capital appreciation) with the lowest overall risk. Specific investment objectives for the plans' portfolios are to: maintain and enhance the purchasing power of the plans' assets; achieve investment returns consistent with the level of risk being taken; and earn performance rates of return in accordance with the benchmarks adopted for each asset class. Outside the U.S., our target asset allocation is from 45 to 60 percent to equities, from 40 to 55 percent to fixed income investments, and from zero to 10 percent to real estate investments, depending on the plan. All plans' assets are broadly diversified. Due to fluctuations in equity markets, our actual allocations of plan assets at October 31, 2010 and 2009 differ from the target allocation. Our policy is to bring the actual allocation in line with the target allocation. 
Equity securities include exchange-traded common stock and preferred stock of companies from broadly diversified industries. Fixed income securities include corporate bonds of companies from diversified industries, government securities, mortgage-backed securities, asset-backed securities and other. Other investments include a group trust consisting primarily of private equity partnerships as well as other investments. Portions of the cash and cash equivalent, equity, and fixed income investments are held in commingled funds. 
Fair Value. 
The measurement of the fair value of pension and post-retirement plan assets uses the valuation methodologies and the inputs as described in Note 12. 
Cash and Cash Equivalents Cash and cash equivalents consist of short-term investment funds. The funds also invest in short-term domestic fixed income securities and other securities with debt-like characteristics emphasizing short-term maturities and quality. Cash and cash equivalents are classified as Level 1 investments except when the cash and cash equivalents are held in commingled funds, which have a daily net value derived from quoted prices for the underlying securities in active markets; these are classified as Level 2 investments. 
Equity Some equity securities consisting of common and preferred stock are held in commingled funds, which have daily net asset values derived from quoted prices for the underlying securities in active markets; these are classified as Level 2 investments. 
109 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Fixed Income Some of the fixed income securities are held in commingled funds, which have daily net asset values derived from the underlying securities; these are classified as Level 2 investments. 
Other Investments Due to the private nature of the partnership investments, pricing inputs are not readily observable. Asset valuations are developed by the general partners that manage the partnerships. These valuations are based on proprietary appraisals, application of public market multiples to private company cash flows, utilization of market transactions that provide valuation information for comparable companies and other methods. Holdings of limited partnerships are classified as Level 3. 
Real estate Valuations are based on regular pricing notifications provided by each portfolio investment. A number of the notifications of the open ended holdings received are published in the financial press or on corporate websites; these are classified as Level 2. 
The following table presents the fair value of U.S. Defined Benefit Plans assets classified under the appropriate level of the fair value hierarchy as of October 31, 2010. 
For U.S. Defined Benefit Plans assets measured at fair value using significant unobservable inputs (level 3), the following table summarizes the change in balances during 2010: 110 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) The following table presents the fair value of U.S. Post-Retirement Benefit Plans assets classified under the appropriate level of the fair value hierarchy as of October 31, 2010. 
For U.S. Post-Retirement Benefit Plans assets measured at fair value using significant unobservable inputs (level 3), the following table summarizes the change in balances during 2010: The following table presents the fair value of non-U.S. Defined Benefit Plans assets classified under the appropriate level of the fair value hierarchy as of October 31, 2010. 
For non-U.S. Defined Benefit Plans, there was no activity relating to assets measured at fair value using significant unobservable inputs (level 3) during fiscal year 2010. 
111 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) The table below presents the combined projected benefit obligation ("PBO"), accumulated benefit obligation ("ABO") and fair value of plan assets, grouping plans using comparisons of the PBO and ABO relative to the plan assets as of October 31, 2010 or 2009. 
Contributions and estimated future benefit payments. 
During fiscal year 2011, we expect to contribute $32 million to the U.S. defined benefit plans, $51 million to plans outside the U.S., and zero 112 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) to the Post-retirement Medical Plans. The following table presents expected future benefit payments for the next 10 years. 
Assumptions. 
The assumptions used to determine the benefit obligations and expense for our defined benefit and post-retirement benefit plans are presented in the tables below. The expected long-term return on assets below represents an estimate of long-term returns on investment portfolios consisting of a mixture of equities, fixed income and alternative investments in proportion to the asset allocations of each of our plans. We consider long-term rates of return, which are weighted based on the asset classes (both historical and forecasted) in which we expect our pension and post-retirement funds to be invested. Discount rates reflect the current rate at which pension and post-retirement obligations could be settled based on the measurement dates of the plans October 31. For the non-U.S. plans, the measurement date was September 30 for 2008. The U.S. discount rates at October 31, 2010 were determined based on the results of matching expected plan benefit payments with cash flows from a hypothetically constructed bond portfolio. The U.S. discount rates at October 31, 2009 were determined by matching the expected plan benefit payments against an industry discount curve as well as reviewing the movement of industry benchmarks. The non-U.S. rates were generally based on published rates for high-quality corporate bonds. The range of assumptions that were used for the non-U.S. defined benefit plans reflects the different economic environments within various countries. 
113 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Assumptions used to calculate the net periodic cost in each year were as follows: Assumptions used to calculate the benefit obligation were as follows: 114 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Assumed health care trend rates could have a significant effect on the amounts reported for Post-retirement Medical Plans. A one percentage point change in the assumed health care cost trend rates for the year ended October 31, 2010 would have the following effects: 16. GUARANTEES Standard Warranty A summary of the standard warranty accrual activity is shown in the table below. The standard warranty accrual balances are held in other accrued and other long-term liabilities. 
Indemnifications to Avago In connection with the sale of our semiconductor products business in December 2005, we agreed to indemnify Avago, its affiliates and other related parties against certain damages that it might incur in the future. The continuing indemnifications primarily cover damages relating to liabilities of the businesses that Agilent retained and did not transfer to Avago, as well as pre-closing taxes and other specified items. In our opinion, the fair value of these indemnifications was not material as of October 31, 2010. 
Indemnifications to Verigy In connection with the spin-off of Verigy, we agreed to indemnify Verigy and its affiliates against certain damages which it might incur in the future. These indemnifications primarily cover damages relating to liabilities of the businesses that Agilent did not transfer to Verigy, liabilities that might arise under limited portions of Verigy's IPO materials that relate to Agilent, and costs and expenses incurred by Agilent or Verigy to effect the IPO, arising out of the distribution of Agilent's remaining holding in Verigy ordinary shares to Agilent's stockholders, or incurred to effect the separation of the semiconductor test solutions business from Agilent to the extent incurred prior to the separation on June 1, 2006. In our opinion, the fair value of these indemnifications was not material as of October 31, 2010. 
115 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Indemnifications to Hewlett-Packard We have given multiple indemnities to Hewlett-Packard in connection with our activities prior to our spin-off from HP for the businesses that constituted Agilent prior to the spin-off. These indemnifications cover a variety of aspects of our business, including, but not limited to, employee, tax, intellectual property and environmental matters. The agreements containing these indemnifications have been previously disclosed as exhibits to our registration statement on Form S-1 filed on August 16, 1999. In our opinion, the fair value of these indemnifications was not material as of October 31, 2010. 
Indemnifications to Varian Medical Systems and Varian Semiconductor Equipment Associates In connection with our acquisition of Varian, we are subject to certain indemnification obligations to Varian Medical Systems (formerly Varian Associates, Inc. ("VAI")) and Varian Semiconductor Equipment Associates in connection with the Instruments business as conducted by VAI prior to the Distribution (as described in Note 1 of Varian's Annual Report on Form 10-K filed on November 25, 2009). These indemnification obligations cover a variety of aspects of our business, including, but not limited to, employee, tax, intellectual property, litigation and environmental matters. Certain of the agreements containing these indemnification obligations are disclosed as exhibits to Varian's Annual Report on Form 10-K filed on November 25, 2009. In our opinion, the fair value of these indemnifications was not material as of October 31, 2010. 
Indemnifications to Officers and Directors Our corporate by-laws require that we indemnify our officers and directors, as well as those who act as directors and officers of other entities at our request, against expenses, judgments, fines, settlements and other amounts actually and reasonably incurred in connection with any proceedings arising out of their services to Agilent and such other entities, including service with respect to employee benefit plans. In addition, we have entered into separate indemnification agreements with each director and each board-appointed officer of Agilent which provide for indemnification of these directors and officers under similar circumstances and under additional circumstances. The indemnification obligations are more fully described in the by-laws and the indemnification agreements. We purchase standard insurance to cover claims or a portion of the claims made against our directors and officers. Since a maximum obligation is not explicitly stated in our by-laws or in our indemnification agreements and will depend on the facts and circumstances that arise out of any future claims, the overall maximum amount of the obligations cannot be reasonably estimated. Historically, we have not made payments related to these obligations, and the fair value for these obligations was not material as of October 31, 2010. 
Other Indemnifications As is customary in our industry and as provided for in local law in the U.S. and other jurisdictions, many of our standard contracts provide remedies to our customers and others with whom we enter into contracts, such as defense, settlement, or payment of judgment for intellectual property claims related to the use of our products. From time to time, we indemnify customers, as well as our suppliers, contractors, lessors, lessees, companies that purchase our businesses or assets and others with whom we enter into contracts, against combinations of loss, expense, or liability arising from various triggering events related to the sale and the use of our products and services, the use of their goods and services, the use of facilities and state of our owned facilities, the state of the assets and businesses that we sell and other matters covered by such contracts, usually up to a specified maximum amount. In 116 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) addition, from time to time we also provide protection to these parties against claims related to undiscovered liabilities, additional product liability or environmental obligations. In our experience, claims made under such indemnifications are rare and the associated estimated fair value of the liability was not material as of October 31, 2010. 
In connection with the sale of several of our businesses, we have agreed to indemnify the buyers of such business, their respective affiliates and other related parties against certain damages that they might incur in the future. The continuing indemnifications primarily cover damages relating to liabilities of the businesses that Agilent retained and did not transfer to the buyers, as well as other specified items. In our opinion, the fair value of these indemnifications was not material as of October 31, 2010. 
17. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES Operating Lease Commitments: We lease certain real and personal property from unrelated third parties under non-cancelable operating leases. Future minimum lease payments under operating leases at October 31, 2010 were $57 million for 2011, $47 million for 2012, $30 million for 2013, $19 million for 2014, $17 million for 2015 and $31 million thereafter. Future minimum sublease income under leases at October 31, 2010 was $6 million for 2011, $5 million for 2012, $3 million for 2013, $2 million for 2014 and $3 million thereafter. Certain leases require us to pay property taxes, insurance and routine maintenance, and include escalation clauses. Total rent expense, including charges relating to the consolidation of excess facilities was $89 million in 2010, $95 million in 2009 and $89 million in 2008. 
Environmental Contingency: As part of our acquisition of Varian, we assumed the liabilities of Varian, including Varian's costs and potential liabilities for environmental matters. One such cost is our obligation, along with the obligation of Varian Semiconductor Equipment Associates, Inc. ("VSEA") (under the terms of a Distribution Agreement between Varian, VSEA and Varian Medical Systems, Inc. ("VMS")) to each indemnify VMS for one-third of certain costs (after adjusting for any insurance recoveries and tax benefits recognized or realized by VMS for such costs) relating to (a) environmental investigation, monitoring and/or remediation activities at certain facilities previously operated by VAI and third-party claims made in connection with environmental conditions at those facilities, and (b) U.S. Environmental Protection Agency or third-party claims alleging that VAI or VMS is a potentially responsible party under the Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, as amended ("CERCLA") in connection with certain sites to which VAI allegedly shipped manufacturing waste for recycling, treatment or disposal (the "CERCLA sites"). 
Various uncertainties make it difficult to estimate future costs for certain of these environmental-related activities, specifically external legal expenses, VMS' internal oversight costs, third-party claims and a former VAI facility where the likelihood and scope of further environmental-related activities are difficult to assess. As of October 31, 2010, it was nonetheless estimated that our future exposure for these environmental-related costs ranged in the aggregate from $1 million to $3 million. 
117 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Sufficient knowledge has been gained to be able to better estimate other costs for future environmental-related activities. As of October 31, 2010, it was estimated that our future costs for these environmental-related activities ranged in the aggregate from $2 million to $13 million. As to each of these ranges of cost estimates, it was determined that a particular amount within the range was a better estimate than any other amount within the range. Together, these amounts totaled $5 million at October 31, 2010. Because both the amount and timing of the recurring portion of these costs were reliably determinable, that portion is discounted at 4%, net of inflation. As of October 31, 2010, in total, we have accrued $5 million in respect of these environmental matters. 
We are involved in lawsuits, claims, investigations and proceedings, including patent, commercial and environmental matters. There are no matters pending that we expect to be material in relation to our business, consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 
18. SHORT-TERM DEBT Credit Facility On May 11, 2007, we entered into a five-year credit agreement, which provides for a $300 million unsecured credit facility that will expire on May 11, 2012. On September 8, 2009, we entered into an Accession Agreement, increasing the credit facility from $300 million to $330 million. The company may use amounts borrowed under the facility for general corporate purposes. As of October 31, 2010 the company has no borrowings outstanding under the facility. 
On August 17, 2009 the credit facility agreement was amended to provide additional financing flexibility in advance of the acquisition of Varian, Inc. The amendment allows for up to $1 billion of additional indebtedness, incurred during the period from August 17, 2009 through the closing of the acquisition, May 14, 2010, to be excluded from the leverage ratio covenant until March 1, 2011. It also temporarily reduces the basket for other secured financing we are permitted to incur from $300 million to $75 million during this period. The amendment also increases by $500 million the amount of repurchase obligations (such as those of Agilent Technologies World Trade, Inc., a consolidated wholly-owned subsidiary of Agilent ("World Trade")), that we are permitted to incur. 
World Trade Debt In January 2006, World Trade entered into a five-year Master Repurchase Agreement with a counterparty in which World Trade sold 15,000 Class A preferred shares of Agilent Technologies (Cayco) Limited ("Cayco") to the counterparty, having an aggregate liquidation preference of $1.5 billion. World Trade owns all of the outstanding common shares of Cayco, a separate legal entity. 
In September 2008, Agilent and World Trade entered into an agreement (the "Lloyds Related Agreement") with Lloyds TSB Bank plc ("Lloyds"). Under the Lloyds Related Agreement, on November 17, 2008 (the "Effective Date"), Lloyds accepted the transfer by novation of all of the rights and obligations of the counterparty under a revised Master Repurchase Agreement. On the Effective Date, Lloyds paid $1.5 billion to the prior counterparty in consideration of the novation and World Trade's repurchase obligation was extended to January 27, 2011 (the "Extended Repurchase Date"). World Trade is obligated to make aggregate quarterly payments to Lloyds at a rate per annum, reset quarterly, with reference to LIBOR plus 175 basis points beginning on the Effective Date. We satisfied the financing obligation of World Trade in its entirety on December 10, 2010 using the proceeds of our senior notes issued in July 2010 and existing cash on our balance sheet. 
118 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Short-Term Restricted Cash & Cash Equivalents As of October 31, 2010, $1,550 million was reported as short-term restricted cash and cash equivalents in our consolidated balance sheet which is held in commercial paper maintained in connection with our World Trade repurchase obligation. This restricted cash, held by one of our wholly-owned subsidiaries, has been reclassified to cash and cash equivalents following the December 10, 2010 settlement of the World Trade repurchase obligation. As of October 31, 2009, $1,555 million of restricted cash and cash equivalents associated with our World Trade repurchase obligation was reported as long-term in our consolidated balance sheet. 
19. LONG-TERM DEBT Senior Notes The following table summarizes the company's senior notes and the related interest rate swaps: 2012 Senior Notes In September 2009, the company issued an aggregate principal amount of $250 million in senior notes. The senior notes were issued at 99.91% of their principal amount. The notes will mature on September 14, 2012, and bear interest at a fixed rate of 4.45% per annum. The interest is payable semi-annually on March 14 th and September 14 th of each year, payments commenced on March 14, 2010. 
2013 Senior Notes In July 2010, the company issued an aggregate principal amount of $250 million in senior notes. The senior notes were issued at 99.82% of their principal amount. The notes will mature on July 15, 2013, and bear interest at a fixed rate of 2.50% per annum. The interest is payable semi-annually on January 15 th and July 15 th of each year, payments commencing on January 15, 2011. 
2015 Senior Notes In September 2009, the company issued an aggregate principal amount of $500 million in senior notes. The senior notes were issued at 99.69% of their principal amount. The notes will mature on September 14, 2015, and bear interest at a fixed rate of 5.50% per annum. The interest is payable semi-annually on March 14 th and September 14 th of each year, payments commenced on March 14, 2010. 
119 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 2017 Senior Notes In October 2007, the company issued an aggregate principal amount of $600 million in senior notes. The senior notes were issued at 99.60% of their principal amount. The notes will mature on November 1, 2017, and bear interest at a fixed rate of 6.50% per annum. The interest is payable semi-annually on May 1 st and November 1 st of each year and payments commenced on May 1, 2008. 
On November 25, 2008, we terminated two interest rate swap contracts associated with our 2017 senior notes that represented the notional amount of $400 million. The asset value upon termination was approximately $43 million and the amount to be amortized at October 31, 2010 was $35 million. The proceeds were recorded as operating cash flows and the gain is being deferred and amortized over the remaining life of the senior notes. 
2020 Senior Notes In July 2010, the company issued an aggregate principal amount of $500 million in senior notes. The senior notes were issued at 99.54% of their principal amount. The notes will mature on July 15, 2020, and bear interest at a fixed rate of 5.00% per annum. The interest is payable semi-annually on January 15 th and July 15 th of each year, payments commencing on January 15, 2011. 
All notes issued are unsecured and rank equally in right of payment with all of Agilent's other senior unsecured indebtedness. The company incurred issuance costs of $5 million in connection with the 2017 senior notes, incurred $5 million in connection with the 2015 and 2012 senior notes and incurred $5 million in connection with 2013 and 2020 senior notes. These costs were capitalized in other assets on the consolidated balance sheet and the costs are being amortized to interest expense over the term of the senior notes. 
Upon the closing of the offering of the 2015 and 2012 senior notes, we entered into interest rate swaps with an aggregate notional amount of $750 million. Also concurrent with issuing the 2020 senior notes in July 2010, we entered into interest rate swaps with an aggregate notional amount of $500 million. Under the interest rate swaps, we will receive fixed-rate interest payments and will make payments based on the U.S. dollar LIBOR plus 253 basis points, 257.6 basis points and 179 basis points with respect to the 2015, 2012 and 2020 senior notes, respectively. The economic effect of these swaps will be to convert the fixed-rate interest expense on the senior notes to a variable LIBOR-based interest rate. The hedging relationship qualifies for the shortcut method of assessing hedge effectiveness, and consequently we do not expect any ineffectiveness during the life of the swap and any movement in the value of the swap would be reflected in the movement in fair value of the senior notes. At October 31, 2010, the fair value of the swaps on 2015 and 2012 senior notes was an asset of $43 million and an asset of $18 million on 2020 senior notes with a corresponding increase in carrying value of the senior notes. 
Other Debt On August 11, 2008, a consolidated wholly-owned subsidiary of Agilent, borrowed Indian Rupees equivalent to $15 million from Citibank N.A. to finance a capital project in India. On March 30, 2010 the debt was repaid in full. 
On June 3, 2010, as a result of the Varian acquisition, the company also paid $14 million to satisfy an outstanding term loan of Varian with a U.S. financial institution which had a fixed interest rate of 6.7%. The $14 million payment of the term loan included an early termination fee of $2 million. 
120 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 20. STOCK REPURCHASE PROGRAM On November 14, 2007, the Audit and Finance Committee of the Board of Directors approved a share repurchase program of up to $2 billion of Agilent's common stock over the next two years. On March 26, 2009, the company announced that it was suspending its share repurchase program until the end of the 2009 fiscal year. On November 15, 2009, the company's share repurchase program expired upon the termination of its two-year term. No shares were purchased under the November 14, 2007 share repurchase program during the year ended October 31, 2010. 
On November 19, 2009 our Board of Directors approved a share-repurchase program to reduce or eliminate dilution of basic outstanding shares in connection with issuances of stock under the company's equity incentive plans. The share-repurchase program does not require the company to acquire a specific number of shares and may be suspended or discontinued at any time. There is no fixed termination date for the new share-repurchase program. For the year ended October 31, 2010, we repurchased 13 million shares for $411 million using settlement date calculation. All such shares and related costs are held as treasury stock and accounted for using the cost method. 
21. SEGMENT INFORMATION Description of segments. 
We are a measurement company, providing core bio-analytical and electronic measurement solutions to the life sciences, chemical analysis, communications and electronics industries. In the first quarter of 2010, we formed three new operating segments from our existing businesses. The bio-analytical measurement segment separated into two operating segments life sciences and chemical analysis. The electronic measurement segment recombined electronic measurement and semiconductor and board test, which were reported separately in 2009. Following this re-organization, Agilent has three businesses life sciences, chemical analysis and electronic measurement each of which comprises a reportable segment. The three new operating segments were determined based primarily on how the chief operating decision maker views and evaluates our operations. Operating results are regularly reviewed by the chief operating decision maker to make decisions about resources to be allocated to the segment and to assess its performance. Other factors, including market separation and customer specific applications, go-to-market channels, products and services and manufacturing are considered in determining the formation of these new operating segments. All historical segment numbers were recast to conform to this new reporting structure in our financial statements. 
A description of our three reportable segments is as follows: Our life sciences business provides application-focused solutions that include instruments, software, consumables, and services that enable customers to identify, quantify and analyze the physical and biological properties of substances and products. Key product categories in life sciences include: DNA and RNA microarrays and associated scanner, software, and reagents; microfluidics-based sample analysis systems; liquid chromatography (LC) systems, columns and components; liquid chromatography mass spectrometry (LCMS) systems; capillary electrophoresis systems; laboratory software and informatics systems; bio-reagents and related products; laboratory automation and robotic systems, dissolution testing; Nuclear Magnetic Resonance (NMR) and Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) systems along with X-Ray Crystallography, and services and support for the aforementioned products. 
121 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Our chemical analysis business provides application-focused solutions that include instruments, software, consumables, and services that enable customers to identify, quantify and analyze the physical and biological properties of substances and products. Key product categories in chemical analysis include: gas chromatography systems, columns and components; gas chromatography mass spectrometry systems; inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry products; spectroscopy products; software and data systems; vacuum pumps and measurement technologies; services and support for the aforementioned products. 
Our electronic measurement business provides electronic measurement instruments and systems, software design tools and related services that are used in the design, development, manufacture, installation, deployment and operation of electronics equipment, and microscopy products. Related services include start-up assistance, instrument productivity and application services and instrument calibration and repair. We also offer customization, consulting and optimization services throughout the customer's product lifecycle. 
A significant portion of the segments' expenses arise from shared services and infrastructure that we have historically provided to the segments in order to realize economies of scale and to efficiently use resources. These expenses, collectively called corporate charges, include costs of centralized research and development, legal, accounting, real estate, insurance services, information technology services, treasury and other corporate infrastructure expenses. Charges are allocated to the segments, and the allocations have been determined on a basis that we consider to be a reasonable reflection of the utilization of services provided to or benefits received by the segments. 
The following tables reflect the results of our reportable segments under our management reporting system. These results are not necessarily in conformity with U.S. GAAP. The performance of each segment is measured based on several metrics, including adjusted income from operations. These results are used, in part, by the chief operating decision maker in evaluating the performance of, and in allocating resources to, each of the segments. 
The profitability of each of the segments is measured after excluding restructuring and asset impairment charges, investment gains and losses, interest income, interest expense, Varian 122 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) acquisition and integration costs, non-cash amortization and impairment of other intangibles and other items as noted in the reconciliations below. 
The following table reconciles segment results to Agilent's total enterprise results from operations before taxes: Major customers. 
No customer represented 10 percent or more of our total net revenue in 2010, 2009 or 2008. 
123 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) The following table presents assets and capital expenditures directly managed by each segment. Unallocated assets primarily consist of cash, cash equivalents, accumulated amortization of other intangibles, the valuation allowance relating to deferred tax assets and other assets. 
The following table reconciles segment assets to Agilent's total assets: Geographic Information The following table presents summarized information for net revenue and long-lived assets by geographic region for continuing operations. Long lived assets consist of property, plant, and equipment, long-term receivables and other long-term assets excluding intangible assets. The rest of the world primarily consists of Southeast Asia and Europe. 
124 AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) QUARTERLY SUMMARY (Unaudited) 125 Item 9. 
Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure None. 
Item 9A. 
Controls and Procedures Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures Our management has evaluated, under the supervision and with the participation of our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures as of October 31, 2010, pursuant to and as required by Rule 13a-15(b) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act"). Based on that evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have concluded that, as of October 31, 2010, the company's disclosure controls and procedures, as defined by Rule 13a-15(e) under the Exchange Act, were effective and designed to ensure that (i) information required to be disclosed in the company's reports filed under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC's rules and forms, and (ii) information is accumulated and communicated to management, including the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosures. 
Management's Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, as such term is defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(f). Under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, we conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting based on the framework in Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Based on the results of this evaluation, our management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of October 31, 2010. 
The effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of October 31, 2010 has been audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in their report which appears in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 
Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting There were no changes in our internal control over financial reporting that occurred during Agilent's last fiscal quarter that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting. 