http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1090872/000109087212000018/a-10312012x10k.htm
http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1090872/000109087212000018/0001090872-12-000018-index.html
13621000000.0
A
2012-10-31
10-K
A_2012-10-31_10-K.txt

 Item 1A and elsewhere in this Form 10-K. 

PART I Item 1. 

Business Overview Agilent Technologies, Inc. ( we , Agilent or the company ), incorporated in Delaware in May 1999, is the world's premier measurement company providing core bio-analytical and electronic measurement solutions to the life sciences, chemical analysis, diagnostics and genomics, communications and electronics industries. 

In the third fiscal quarter of 2012, we formed a new operating segment. The new diagnostics and genomics segment was formed from a portion of our pre-existing life sciences business plus the business of our recent acquisition of Dako A/S ("Dako"). Following this reorganization, Agilent has four business segments comprised of the life sciences business, the chemical analysis business, the diagnostics and genomics business and the electronic measurement business. The historical segment financial information for both the life sciences and diagnostics and genomics segments have been recast to conform to this new reporting structure in our financial statements. 

Our life sciences business focuses on the pharmaceutical, biotech, academic and government, bio-agriculture and food safety industries. Our chemical analysis business focuses on the petrochemical, environmental, forensics and food safety industries. Our diagnostics and genomics business focuses on clinical markets, academic and government, pharmaceutical, biotechnology and contract research organization industries. Our electronic measurement business addresses the communications, electronics and other industries. In addition to our four businesses, we conduct centralized manufacturing and order fulfillment through Agilent Order Fulfillment ("AOF") as well as research through Agilent Technologies Laboratories ( Agilent Labs ). Each of our four businesses, AOF and Agilent Labs, is supported by our global infrastructure organization, which provides shared services in the areas of finance, information technology, legal, workplace services and human resources. 

On June 21, 2012, we acquired Dako through the purchase of 100% of the share capital of Dako, a limited liability company incorporated under the laws of Denmark, under the share purchase agreement, dated May 16, 2012. Dako provides antibodies, reagents, scientific instruments and software primarily to customers in pathology laboratories. As a result of the acquisition, Dako has become a wholly-owned subsidiary of Agilent. The consideration paid was approximately $2.143 billion, of which $1.4 billion was paid directly to the seller and $743 million was paid to satisfy the outstanding debt of Dako. Agilent funded the acquisition using our existing cash. 

On May 14, 2010, we acquired Varian, Inc., a leading supplier of scientific instrumentation and associated consumables for life science and applied market applications, for a total cash purchase price of approximately $1.5 billion. Varian's products include analytical instruments, research products and related software, consumable products, accessories and services, as well as vacuum products and related services and accessories. The acquisition broadens Agilent's applications and solutions offerings in both of our chemical analysis and life sciences businesses. It expands Agilent's product portfolio into atomic and molecular spectroscopy; establishes a strong position in nuclear magnetic resonance, imaging and vacuum technologies; and strengthens our consumables portfolio. We financed the purchase price of Varian using the proceeds from our September 2009 offering of senior notes and other existing cash. Varian's cash acquired at completion of the acquisition was approximately $226 million. 

3 On May 1, 2010, we completed the sale of our Network Solutions Division ("NSD") of our electronic measurement business to JDS Uniphase Corporation. NSD included Agilent's network assurance solutions, network protocol test and drive test products. On February 2, 2010, the company sold Hycor Biomedical Inc., a subsidiary of Agilent and part of our life sciences business, to Linden LLC, a Chicago-based healthcare private equity firm. Hycor is a global manufacturer and marketer of in-vitro diagnostics products. 

We sell our products primarily through direct sales, but we also utilize distributors, resellers, manufacturer's representatives, telesales and electronic commerce. Of our total net revenue of $6.9 billion for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2012, we generated 32 percent in the U.S. and 68 percent outside the U.S. As of October 31, 2012, we employed approximately 20,500 people worldwide. Our primary research and development and manufacturing sites are in California, Colorado and Delaware in the U.S. and in Australia, China, Denmark, Germany, India, Italy, Japan, Malaysia, Poland, Singapore and the United Kingdom. 

The net revenue, income from operations and assets by business segment, as of and for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2012 and for each of the past three years are shown in Note 21, "Segment Information", to our consolidated financial statements, which we incorporate by reference herein. 

Life Sciences Business Our life sciences business provides application focused solutions that include instruments, software, consumables, and services that enable customers to identify, quantify and analyze the physical and biological properties of substances and products. Key product categories in life sciences include: liquid chromatography ( LC ) systems, columns and components; liquid chromatography mass spectrometry ( LCMS ) systems; laboratory software and informatics systems; laboratory automation and robotic systems; dissolution testing; nucleic acid solutions; Nuclear Magnetic Resonance ( NMR ); Magnetic Resonance Imaging ( MRI ); and X-Ray Diffraction ( XRD ) systems; and services and support for the aforementioned products. 

We employed approximately 4,000 people as of October 31, 2012 in our life sciences business. This business generated revenue of $1.6 billion in fiscal 2012, $1.5 billion in fiscal 2011 and $1.2 billion in fiscal 2010. 

Life Science Markets Our life sciences business focuses primarily on the following two markets: The Pharma, Biotech, CRO & CMO Market. 

This market consists of for-profit companies who participate across the pharmaceutical value chain in the areas of therapeutic research, discovery & development, clinical trials, manufacturing and quality assurance and quality control. One sub-segment of this market is core and emerging pharmaceutical companies ( Pharma ). A second sub-segment includes biotechnology companies ( biotech ), contract research organizations ( CROs ) and contract manufacturing organizations ( CMOs ). Biotech companies and, to a somewhat lesser extent, CROs and CMOs typically participate in specific points in the Pharma industry value chain. 

The Academic and Government Market. 

This market consists primarily of not-for-profit organizations and includes academic institutions, large government institutes and privately funded organizations. The academic and government research market plays an influential role in technology adoption and therapeutic developments for Pharma and molecular diagnostics companies. After decades of investment in basic biomedical research by government funding bodies, the focus has widened to include translational research - multidisciplinary scientific efforts directed at accelerating therapy development . 

Life Science Measurement Products and Applications A key factor in all of our life science measurement target markets is the need for new products that increase customer productivity and provide high quality data that enable decision making by our customers. Our key product segments include: Liquid Chromatography Products A liquid chromatograph ( LC ) or a high performance liquid chromatograph ( HPLC ) is used to separate molecules of a liquid mixture to determine the quantity and identity of the molecules present. The Agilent LC portfolio is modular in construction and can be configured as analytical and preparative systems. These systems can be stepwise upgraded to highly sophisticated, automated workflow solutions such as method development, multi method/walk-up, high-capacity/high-throughput or multi dimensional LC and can be extended to application based analyzers e.g. for bio-molecular separations, chiral analysis or size exclusion chromatography. As a leader in liquid chromatography, we continue to expand our application space with new HPLC columns, new services and diagnostics offerings and ongoing instrument and software product enhancements. 

4 Mass Spectrometry Products A mass spectrometer ( MS ) identifies and quantifies chemicals based on a chemical's molecular mass and characteristic patterns of fragment ion masses that result when a molecule is broken apart. Liquid chromatography ( LC ) is commonly used to separate compounds and introduce them to the MS system. The combined use of LC and MS ( LCMS ) is frequently used both to identify and quantify chemical compounds. Mass spectrometry is an important tool in analyzing small molecules and can also be used to characterize and quantify proteins and other biological entities. Agilent's LCMS portfolio includes instruments built around four main analyzer types - single quadrupole, triple quadrupole, time-of-flight ( TOF ) and quadrupole time-of-flight ( QTOF ). We significantly expanded our mass spectrometry portfolio in recent years with a focus on improving performance, reliability, and ease of use. 

Software and Informatics Products We provide software for instrument control, data acquisition, data analysis, laboratory content and business process management, and informatics. Our software facilitates the regulatory compliant use of instruments in pharmaceutical quality assurance/quality control environments. With OpenLab, Agilent has introduced a scalable, open architecture that enables customers to easily capture, analyze, and share scientific data throughout the lab and across the enterprise. 

Lab Automation and Robotics We offer a comprehensive suite of workflow solutions to our life science customers with the addition of automated liquid handling and robotics that range from standalone instrumentation to bench-top automation solutions to large, multi armed robotic systems. These solutions strengthen our offering of automated sample preparation solutions across a broad range of applications. In fiscal 2012 we acquired AssayMAP technology, which in combination with Agilent's Bravo liquid handling platform enables highly parallel automated microchromatography for protein purification and characterization. 

NMR and MRI systems With the acquisition of Varian during fiscal 2010, Agilent has enriched its portfolio with NMR, spectrometers, MRI systems and XRD systems used in a variety of industries including academic and not-for-profit research, life sciences (pharma and biotech), and industrial companies. All of these technologies are utilized for basic and applied research, and NMR is also used in process development and manufacturing QA/QC. 

Nucleic Acid Solutions We provide highly specialized contract manufacturing of nucleic acid molecules designed for use as active pharmaceutical ingredients ( API ) for pharmaceutical and biotech companies. The API we produce are custom modified versions of human DNA or RNA molecules that serve as the key component in drugs targeted at diseases that involve genetic disorders. We offer proprietary manufacturing process know-how for synthesis and purification of these complex molecules, and capability to support the quantities customers need for use in preclinical studies, clinical trials, and commercial production. We also provide an array of manufacturing related support-services, including development of analytical methods and processes, stability studies, process validation, and regulatory support. 

Consumables and Services We also offer a broad range of consumable products, which support our LC, and MS technology platforms. These consumable products include sample preparation products; self-manufactured LC columns, instrument replacement parts, and consumable supplies to meet our customers' analysis needs. All of our products are designed to Agilent's specifications to improve and maximize the performance of our instruments. 

We offer a wide range of startup, operational, educational and compliance support services for our measurement and data handling systems. Our support services include maintenance, troubleshooting, repair and training for all of our chemical and bioinstrumentation analysis hardware and software products. Special service bundles have also been designed to meet the specific application needs of various industries. 

Life Sciences Customers We had over 30,000 customers for our life sciences business in 2012. No single customer represented a material amount of the net revenue of the life sciences business. A significant number of our life sciences customers are also customers of our chemical analysis and diagnostics and genomics businesses. 

5 The life sciences business is susceptible to seasonality in its orders and revenues primarily based on U.S. government and large pharmaceutical company budgets. In general, the result is that our first and fourth fiscal quarters tend to deliver the strongest profits for this group. However, general economic trends, new product introductions and competition might overshadow this trend in any given year. 

Life Sciences Sales, Marketing and Support The life science channel focuses on the therapeutics customer base (Pharma, biotech, CRO, CMO and Generics) and on emerging life sciences opportunities in academic and government life science research institutes. We deploy a multi-channel approach, marketing products to our customers through direct sales, electronic commerce, resellers, manufacturers' representatives and distributors. We use direct sales to market our solutions to all of our pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical accounts. Sales agents supplement direct sales by providing broader geographic coverage and coverage of smaller accounts. Our active reseller program augments our ability to provide more complete solutions to our customers. We sell our consumable products through distributors, telesales, electronic commerce and direct sales. 

We deliver our support services to customers in a variety of ways, including on-site assistance with repair or exchange of returned products, telephone support and self-diagnostic services provided over the Internet. We also offer special industry focused service bundles that are designed to meet the specific needs of hydrocarbon processing, environmental, pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical customers to keep instruments fully operational and compliant with the respective industry requirements. Our products typically come with standard warranties, and extended warranties are available for additional cost. 

Life Sciences Manufacturing Our manufacturing supports our diverse product range and customer centric focus. We assemble highly configurable products to individual customer orders and make standard products to stock. We employ advanced manufacturing techniques and supply chain management systems to reduce costs and manufacturing cycle times. We selectively use third parties to provide some supply chain processes for manufacturing, warehousing and logistics. We have manufacturing facilities in California, Colorado and North Carolina in the U.S. Outside of the U.S., we have manufacturing facilities in Germany, Malaysia, Poland, Singapore and U.K. We utilize just-in-time manufacturing. 

Life Sciences Competition The markets for analytical instruments in which we compete are characterized by evolving industry standards and intense competition. Our principal competitors in the life sciences arena include: Bruker Corp., Danaher Corporation, Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc. and Waters Corp. Agilent competes on the basis of product performance, reliability, support quality, applications expertise, global channel coverage and price. 

Chemical Analysis Business Our chemical analysis business provides application-focused solutions that include instruments, software, consumables, and services that enable customers to identify, quantify and analyze the physical and biological properties of substances and products. Key product categories in chemical analysis include: gas chromatography ("GC") systems, columns and components; gas chromatography mass spectrometry ("GC-MS") systems; inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry ("ICP-MS") instruments; atomic absorption ("AA") instruments; microwave plasma-atomic emission spectrometry ( MP-AES ) instruments; inductively coupled plasma optical emission spectrometry ("ICP-OES") instruments; software and data systems; vacuum pumps and measurement technologies; services and support for our products. 

We employed approximately 4,000 people as of October 31, 2012 in our chemical analysis business. This business generated revenue of $1.6 billion in fiscal 2012, $1.5 billion in fiscal 2011, and $1.2 billion in fiscal 2010. 

Chemical Analysis Markets Within chemical analysis, we focus primarily on the following markets: The Chemical & Energy Market. 

The natural gas and petroleum refining markets use our products to measure and control the quality of their finished products and to verify the environmental safety of their operations. Petroleum refiners use our measurement solutions to analyze crude oil composition, perform raw material analysis, verify and improve refining processes and ensure the overall quality of gasoline, fuels, lubricants and other products. Our solutions are also used in the development, manufacturing and quality control of fine chemicals. 

6 The Environmental & Forensics Market. 

Our instruments, software and workflow solutions are used by the environmental market for applications such as laboratory and field analysis of chemical pollutants in air, water, soil and solid waste. Environmental industry customers include all levels of government, the industrial and manufacturing sectors, engineering and consulting companies, commercial testing laboratories and colleges and universities. Drug testing and forensics laboratories use our instruments, software and workflow solutions for applications such as analyzing evidence associated with crime, screening athletes for performance enhancing drugs, analyzing samples for recreational drugs, or detecting and identifying biological and chemical warfare agents. This instrumentation is used in either static or mobile laboratories. Customers include local, state, federal, and international law enforcement agencies and health laboratories. 

The Food Market. 

Our instruments, software, and workflow solutions are used throughout the food production chain, including incoming inspection, new product development, quality control and assurance, and packaging. For example, our mass spectrometer portfolio, including triple quad liquid chromatography mass spectrometers, is used to analyze contaminants and residual pesticides in food. There is also a significant food safety market involved in analyzing food for pathogen contamination, accurate verification of species type and evidence of genetically modified content. 

Chemical Analysis Products A key factor in all of our chemical analysis markets is the need for new products that increase customer productivity and provide high quality data that enable decision-making by our customers. Our key product segments include: Gas Chromatography Products Agilent is the world's leading provider of gas chromatographs, both laboratory and portable models. A gas chromatograph ("GC") is used to separate any gas, liquid or solid that can be vaporized and then detect the molecules present to determine their identity and quantity. Agilent provides custom or standard analyzers configured for specific chemical analysis applications, such as detailed speciation of a complex hydrocarbon stream, calculation of gas calorific values in the field, or analysis of a new bio-fuel formulation. We also offer related software, accessories and consumable products for these and other similar instruments. 

Mass Spectrometry Products Mass spectrometry ("MS") is a technique for analyzing the individual chemical components of substances by ionizing them and determining their mass-to-charge ratios. Our MS products incorporate various technologies for measuring mass, including single-quadrupole, triple-quadrupole, quadrupole time-of-flight and ion trap mass spectrometers. We combine our mass spectrometers with other instruments to create high-performance instruments such as gas chromatograph mass spectrometers ("GC/MS"), and inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometers ("ICP-MS"). We also offer related software, accessories and consumable products for these and other similar instruments. 

Spectroscopy Products Spectroscopy is a technique for analyzing the individual chemical components of substances based on the absorption or emission of electromagnetic radiation of specific wavelengths of light. Our spectroscopy instruments include atomic absorption ("AA") spectrometers, microwave plasma-atomic emission spectrometers ( MP-AES ), inductively coupled plasma-optical emissions spectrometers ("ICP-OES"), inductively coupled plasma-mass spectrometers ("ICP-MS"), fluorescence spectrophotometers, ultraviolet- visible ("UV-Vis") spectrophotometers, Fourier Transform infrared ("FT-IR") spectrophotometers, near-infrared ("NIR") spectrophotometers, Raman spectrometers and sample automation products. We also offer related software, accessories and consumable products for these and other similar instruments. 

Vacuum Technology Products Our vacuum technologies products are used to create, control, measure and test vacuum environments in life science, industrial and scientific applications where ultra-clean, high-vacuum environments are needed. Vacuum technologies' customers are typically OEMs that manufacture equipment for these applications. Products include a wide range of high and ultra-high vacuum pumps (diffusion, turbomolecular and ion getter), intermediate vacuum pumps (rotary vane, sorption and dry scroll), vacuum instrumentation (vacuum control instruments, sensor gauges and meters) and vacuum components (valves, flanges and other mechanical hardware). These products also include helium mass spectrometry and helium-sensing leak detection instruments used to identify and measure leaks in hermetic or vacuum environments. In addition to product sales, we also offer a wide range of services including an exchange and rebuild program, assistance with the design and integration of vacuum systems, applications support and training in basic and advanced vacuum technologies. 

7 Consumables and Services We offer a broad range of consumable products, which support our technology platforms, including sample preparation consumables such as solid phase extraction ("SPE") and filtration products, self manufactured GC and LC columns, chemical standards, and instrument replacement parts. Consumable products also include scientific instrument parts and supplies such as filters and fittings for GC systems; xenon lamps and cuvettes for UV-Vis-NIR, fluorescence, FT-IR and Raman spectroscopy instruments; and graphite furnace tubes, hollow cathode lamps and specialized sample introduction glassware for our AA, ICP-OES and ICP-MS products. 

We offer a wide range of startup, operational, educational and compliance support services for our measurement and data handling systems. Our support services include maintenance, troubleshooting, repair and training for all of our chemical and bioinstrumentation analysis hardware and software products. Special service bundles have also been designed to meet the specific application needs of various industries. 

Chemical Analysis Customers We had approximately 35,000 customers for our chemical analysis business in 2012. No single customer represented a material amount of the net revenue of the chemical analysis business. A significant number of our chemical analysis customers are also customers of our life sciences business. 

The chemical analysis business is susceptible to seasonality in its orders and revenues primarily based on U.S. government and large company budgets. The result is that our fourth fiscal quarter tends to deliver the strongest profits for this business. However, general economic trends, new product introductions and competition might overshadow this trend in any given year. 

Chemical Analysis Sales, Marketing and Support Our sales and support delivery channels are aligned by key markets. We market products to our customers through direct sales, electronic commerce, resellers, manufacturers' representatives and distributors. Additionally, we are optimizing our worldwide distribution capabilities to address high-growth opportunities such as the environmental and food safety markets in the Asia-Pacific region. 

We use direct sales to market our solutions to our large- and medium-sized chemical customers and environmental accounts. Sales agents supplement direct sales by providing broader geographic coverage and coverage of smaller accounts. Our active reseller program augments our ability to provide more complete solutions to our customers. We sell our consumable products through distributors, telesales, electronic commerce and direct sales. 

We deliver our support services to customers in a variety of ways, including on-site assistance with repair or exchange of returned products, telephone support and self-diagnostic services provided over the Internet. We also offer special industry-focused service bundles that are designed to meet the specific needs including those for hydrocarbon processing and environmental customers to keep instruments fully operational and compliant with the respective industry requirements. Our products typically come with standard warranties, and extended warranties are available for additional cost. 

Chemical Analysis Manufacturing Our manufacturing supports our diverse product range and customer-centric focus. We assemble highly configurable products to individual customer orders and make standard products to stock. We employ advanced manufacturing techniques and supply chain management systems to reduce costs and manufacturing cycle times. We selectively use third parties to provide some supply chain processes for manufacturing, warehousing and logistics. We have manufacturing facilities in California, Delaware, Connecticut, and Massachusetts in the U.S. Outside of the U.S., we have manufacturing facilities in Australia, Canada, China, Italy, Malaysia, Netherlands, Japan, and the United Kingdom. We utilize just-in-time manufacturing and so typically do not maintain a high level of inventory. 

Chemical Analysis Competition The markets for analytical instruments in which we compete are characterized by evolving industry standards and intense competition. Our principal competitors in the chemical analysis arena include: Bruker Corporation, PerkinElmer Inc., Shimadzu Corporation and Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc. Agilent competes on the basis of product performance, reliability, support quality, applications expertise, global channel coverage and price. 

8 Diagnostics and Genomics Business Our diagnostics and genomics business provides solutions that include reagents, instruments, software and consumables that enable customers in the clinical and life sciences research areas to interrogate samples at the molecular level. With the acquisition of Dako, a new group of solutions have been added that extend our product offerings to cancer diagnostics with anatomic pathology workflows. Our broad portfolio of offerings include immunohistochemistry ( IHC ), In Situ Hybridization ( ISH ), Hematoxylin and Eosin Staining, special staining, DNA mutation detection, genotyping, gene copy number determination, identification of gene rearrangements, DNA methylation profiling, gene expression profiling, as well as automated gel electrophoresis-based sample analysis systems. We also collaborate with a number of major pharmaceutical companies to develop new potential pharmacodiagnostics, also called companion diagnostics, which may be used to identify patients most likely to benefit from a specific targeted therapy. 

We employed approximately 2,000 people as of October 31, 2012 in our diagnostics and genomics business. This business generated revenue of $0.4 billion in fiscal 2012 and $0.3 billion in fiscal 2011 and 2010. 

Diagnostics and Genomics Markets Our diagnostics and genomics business focuses primarily on the following three markets: The Clinical Market . A significant part of our clinical diagnostic customers are in pathology labs throughout the world. Our high-quality, automated pathology tissue staining platforms and solutions are used most heavily by the large labs located in hospitals, medical centers, and reference labs. The market is skewed towards the mature economies, with approximately 75% of the market in North America, Western Europe and Japan. The mix is changing, however, as emerging markets increase spending on human health. 

The clinical market for genomics consists of high complexity clinical labs performing patient testing, including for-profit reference laboratories, hospital labs, and molecular diagnostic companies. While these labs primarily purchase in vitro diagnostics ( IVD ) labeled testing kits, they often develop and validate their own molecular based tests. Analyte Specific Reagents ( ASRs ) are often used by these labs. 

The Academic and Government Market . This market consists primarily of not-for-profit organizations and includes academic institutions, large government institutions and privately funded organizations. The academic and government research market plays an influential role in technology adoption and therapeutic developments for Pharma/Biotech and Clinical Laboratories. As such, there is heavy emphasis on human disease research. 

The Pharma, Biotech, & CRO Market. 

This market consists of for-profit companies who participate across the pharmaceutical value chain in the areas of therapeutic research, discovery and development and clinical trials. There has been much activity in this market space, where most large Pharma companies have acquired a biopharma arm, enabling development of therapeutics based on both small molecules (classic pharmaceuticals) and large molecules (protein/ antibody based). Due to the relative low drug efficacy within oncology, Pharma companies are partnering with diagnostic companies to bring validated test to the market with their new drugs. Additionally, Pharma companies are more often outsourcing clinical trial work to CRO's, making them a growing portion of this market segment. 

Diagnostics and Genomics Products and Applications Our products fall into seven main areas of work: pathology products, specific proteins and flow reagents, target enrichment, cytogenetic research solutions, microarrays, nucleic acid quality control, and molecular biology products. 

Pathology Products This area consists of routine clinical solutions for tissue based cancer diagnostics with solutions that comprise antibodies, reagents, instruments and software targeting both primary and advanced cancer diagnostics. Our CoverStainer and Artisan based product families target primary cancer diagnostics through Hematoxylin and Eosin ( H&E ) staining as well as Special Stains for additional insights and detection of potentially carcinogenic infections. Our Autostainer based IHC solution and Instant Quality Fluorescence In Situ Hybridization ("IQFISH") technologies provide advanced tumor typing through investigation of protein and gene expression. This also includes so called companion diagnostic tests that are used to help identify patients most likely to benefit from a specific targeted therapy. 

9 Specific Proteins and Flow Reagents Our reagent partnership business is a provider of clinical diagnostic products within the areas of specific proteins for turbidimetry and reagents for flow cytometry. These are sold OEM as customized reagent solutions supplied to top IVD companies or through retail partners. 

Target Enrichment Agilent continues to be a strong player in the next generation sequencing market. SureSelect enables researchers to enrich their samples for only the regions of the genome of interest (for example, the gene coding region), thus vastly reducing the amount of sequencing needed per sample, and thereby reducing the overall experiment cost. The level of customization available for the SureSelect product line enables researchers to accurately enrich for and sequence the entire exome (gene coding region), as well as other subsets of genes or regions they are interested in for specific research. This is particularly useful for researchers who focus on DNA mutation detection and genotyping. SureSelect is compatible with major next generation sequencing platforms. 

Cytogenetic Research Solutions Agilent is a leading provider of microarrays for Comparative Genomic Hybridization ( CGH ), most used by customers in cytogenetic laboratories. The product portfolio has been expanded to include microarrays that detect both copy number changes and copy neutral changes by utilizing single nucleotide polymorphisms ( SNPs ) on the same microarray. In addition to the microarrays, Agilent's research solution includes reagents for sample processing, hardware for reading the microarrays, and software to help users view the data in a meaningful way. 

Microarrays Agilent provides a wide range of microarrays to the research market. We offer custom arrays with no minimum order size and short delivery time, which differentiates us from other vendors and enables researchers the maximum flexibility in their studies. Our end-to-end solution includes reagents for sample preparation and microarray processing; hardware for sample QC and high-throughput microarray scanning; 60-mer oligo microarrays on industry standard 1 3 glass slides for key applications (gene expression, microRNA, methylation, splice variants, and chromatin immunoprecipitation applications); custom microarray design services; and GeneSpring software products for data analysis. 

Nucleic Acid QC Agilent provides an instrument platform for sizing, quantitation, and quality control of DNA, RNA, and proteins for researchers performing gene expression and next generation sequencing experiments. This platform includes instruments that address the range of throughput needs for genomics scientists. The flagship Bioanalyzer has typically been targeted towards customers with lower throughput needs while the TapeStation is targeted towards higher throughput researchers. Both systems include dedicated analysis software plus pre-packaged consumables and pre-validated methods. 

PCR & qPCR Instrumentation and Molecular Biology Reagents Polymerase Chain Reaction ( PCR ) is a standard laboratory method used to amplify the amount of genetic material of a given sample to enable further interrogation. Quantitative PCR ( qPCR ) or real time PCR is also a standard method used in genomic research facilities to measure the amount of a specific nucleic acid sequence within a sample. There are several applications for qPCR, among the most common are identifying the expression level of a specific gene, or calculating the amount of a specific pathogen present in a sample. Agilent offers a complete portfolio of PCR & qPCR instruments, as well as specialty enzymes for amplifying difficult sample types. In addition to PCR and qPCR enzymes, Agilent offers a wide range of molecular biology reagents including tools for cloning and mutagenesis applications. 

Diagnostics and Genomics Customers We had over 15,000 customers in our diagnostics and genomics business in 2012. No single customer represented a material amount of the net revenue of the diagnostics and genomics business. A significant number of our diagnostics and genomics customers are also customers of our life sciences business. 

The genomics business is susceptible to seasonality in its orders and revenues primarily based on U.S. and foreign government budgets. In general, the result is that our second and fourth quarters tend to be the strongest quarters for revenues. The diagnostics business is generally a fairly stable business impacted primarily by local holidays. However, general economic trends, new product 10 introductions and competition might overshadow this trend in any given year. 

Diagnostics and Genomics Sales, Marketing and Support The diagnostics and genomics channel focuses on the clinical customer base (pathology labs and high complexity clinical testing labs) as well as on human disease research customers within Pharma, Biotech, CRO, academic and government genomics research institutes. We deploy a multi-channel approach, marketing products to our customers through direct sales, electronic commerce, resellers, manufacturers' representatives and distributors. We use direct sales to market our pathology clinical solutions in major markets and our genomic solutions to all of our genomics accounts. Sales agents and distributors supplement direct sales by providing broader geographic coverage and coverage of smaller accounts. Our active reseller program augments our ability to provide more complete solutions to our customers. We utilize telesales for more mature product lines, as well as for reorders of reagent products. 

We deliver our support services to customers in a variety of ways, including on-site assistance with repair or exchange of returned products, telephone support and self-diagnostic services provided over the internet. Our genomics products typically come with standard warranties, and extended warranties are available for additional cost. Our complete pathology solutions are often sold with both application and technical service support. 

Diagnostics and Genomics Manufacturing Our manufacturing supports our diverse product range and customer-centric focus. We offer customers the ability to customize their designs for microarrays and target enrichment for free through our web portal. Our manufacturing process then converts these designs into custom products for shipment to customers. We employ advanced manufacturing techniques and supply chain management systems to reduce costs and manufacturing cycle times. We selectively use third parties to provide some supply chain processes for manufacturing, warehousing and logistics. We have genomics manufacturing facilities in California and Texas (FDA registered) in the U.S. Outside of the U.S., we have genomics manufacturing facilities in Germany, Malaysia, Singapore and the U.K. We utilize just-in-time manufacturing. Manufacturing of our pathology products, specific proteins and flow reagents takes place in Denmark and in California, both sites are FDA registered. 

Diagnostics and Genomics Competition The markets for diagnostics and genomic products in which we compete are characterized by intense competition. Our principal competitors in the genomics arena include: Affymetrix Inc., Illumina, Inc., Life Technologies Corp, Abbott Laboratories, Roche, Bio-Rad Inc. and Perkin-Elmer. Our principal competitors in the pathology arena include Ventana Medical Systems, Inc. (Roche Tissue Diagnostics), Leica Biosystems Nussloch GmbH (Danaher Corporation), Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc., Sakura and Abbott Laboratories. Agilent competes on the basis of product performance, reliability, support quality, applications expertise, global channel coverage and price. 

Diagnostics and Genomics Government Regulation Some of the products the diagnostics and genomics group sells are subject to regulatory approval by the FDA and other regulatory bodies throughout the world. As such, we continually invest in our manufacturing infrastructure to gain and maintain certifications necessary for the level of clearance. Our pathology manufacturing facilities in Denmark and California have established quality management systems and manufacturing practices designed to comply with the adequate standards for the in vitro diagnostics industry, including ISO 13485 Medical devices and FDA 21CFR Part 820 quality system regulation as well as additional international standards. Our genomics Cedar Creek, Texas manufacturing facility has been registered with the FDA as a medical device manufacturing facility. This FDA registered facility is the site where our class I ASR SureFISH products are manufactured. Additionally, other facilities maintain ISO 13485 manufacturing compliance. 

Electronic Measurement Business Our electronic measurement business provides electronic measurement instruments and systems, software design tools and related services that are used in the design, development, manufacture, installation, deployment and operation of electronics equipment, and microscopy products. Related services include start-up assistance, instrument productivity and application services and instrument calibration and repair. We also offer customization, consulting and optimization services throughout the customer's product lifecycle. 

Our electronic measurement business employed approximately 8,000 people as of October 31, 2012. Our electronic measurement business generated $3.3 billion in revenue in fiscal 2012 and 2011 and $2.8 billion in revenue in fiscal 2010. 

11 Electronic Measurement Markets Our electronic measurement products serve the following markets: The Communications Test Market We market our electronic measurement products and services to network equipment manufacturers ("NEMs"), handset manufacturers, and communications service providers, including the component manufacturers within the supply chain for these customers. 

NEMs manufacture and sell products to facilitate the transmission of voice, data and video traffic. The NEMs' customers are the distributors of end-user subscriber devices, including wireless personal communication devices and set-top boxes, as well as communications service providers that deploy and operate the networks and services. To meet their customers' demands, NEMs require test and measurement instruments, systems and solutions for the development, production and installation of each network technology. 

Communications service providers require reliable network equipment that enables new service offerings and allows their networks to operate at ever-increasing capacities. To achieve this, communications service providers require a range of sophisticated test instruments and systems to monitor and evaluate network performance and to identify any sources of communications failure. 

Handset manufacturers require test and measurement products for the design, development, manufacture and repair of mobile handsets. These mobile handsets are used for voice, data and video delivery to individuals who connect wirelessly to the service provider's network. The handset manufacturers' primary customers are large and small service providers. The handset manufacturers require test and measurement products that enable technology development in conformance with the latest communications standards. 

Component manufacturers design, develop and manufacture electronic components and modules used in network equipment and handsets. The component manufacturers require test and measurement products to verify that the performance of their components and modules meet the specifications of their NEM and handset customers. 

The communications test market accounted for approximately 37 percent of revenue from our electronic measurement business in 2012. 

The General Purpose Test Market We market our general purpose test products and services to the electronics industry and other industries with significant electronic content such as the aerospace and defense, computer and semiconductor industries. These electronics and electronics-dependent industries design, develop and manufacture a wide range of products, including those produced in high volumes, such as computers, computer peripherals, electronic components, consumer electronics, enterprise servers, storage networks and automotive electronics. The components, printed circuit assemblies and functional devices for these products may be designed, developed and manufactured by electronic components companies, by original equipment manufacturers or by contract manufacturers. 

For the development and timely commercialization of new technologies, manufacturers require state-of-the-art test instruments, systems and design software in order to design products for efficient and cost-effective manufacturing and to validate product performance in a variety of configurations and environments. 

Customers use our general purpose test solutions in developing and manufacturing a wide variety of electronic components and systems. These customers' test requirements include testing the electrical parameters of digital, radio frequency, and microwave frequency components and assemblies; testing multiple parameters of the printed circuit boards used in almost every electronic device; testing of the final product; and testing of systems containing multiple electronic instruments. For semiconductor and board test applications, customers use our solutions in the design, development, manufacture, installation, deployment, and operation of semiconductor and printed circuit assembly fabrication. 

We address the biology, life sciences and material science markets by providing solutions such as the atomic force microscope, nano indenters and scanning electron microscope. For nanotechnology applications, customers use our products to study biological samples at the cellular and molecular level including imaging of DNA and proteins, and to study and research polymers, electrochemistry, and thin films. 

12 The general purpose test market accounted for approximately 63 percent of revenue from our electronic measurement business in 2012. 

Electronic Measurement Products We divide our electronic measurement products into communications test products and general purpose test products. 

Communications Test Products We sell products and services applicable to a wide range of communications networks and systems including wireless communications and microwave networks, voice, broadband, data, and fiber optic networks. Test products include electronic design automation ("EDA") software, vector and signal analyzers, signal generators, vector network analyzers, one box testers, oscilloscopes, logic and protocol analyzers, and bit-error ratio testers. 

Our wireless communications and microwave network products include radio frequency and microwave test instruments and EDA software tools. These products are required for the design and production of wireless network products, communications links, cellular handsets and base stations. We provide handheld instruments for the installation and maintenance of wireless networks. Our high-frequency EDA software tools and instruments are used by radio frequency integrated circuit design engineers to model, simulate and analyze communications product designs at the circuit and system levels. Our customers are also applying this technology more frequently to model signal integrity problems in digital design applications as digital speeds continue to increase. 

Our suite of fiber optic test products measure and analyze a wide variety of critical optical and electrical parameters in fiber optic networks and their components. Components which can be tested with Agilent solutions include source lasers, optical amplifiers, filters and other passive components. Test products include optical modulation analyzers, optical component analyzers, optical power meters, and optical laser source products. 

General Purpose Test Products We sell the following types of products into the general purpose test market: general purpose instruments, modular instruments and test software, digital test products, semiconductor and board test solutions, electronics manufacturing test equipment, atomic force microscopes and network surveillance solutions. 

General purpose instruments are used principally by engineers in research and development laboratories, manufacturing, and calibration and service, for measuring voltage, current, frequency, signal pulse width, modulation and other complex electronics measurements. Our general purpose products include spectrum analyzers, network analyzers, signal generators, logic analyzers, digitizing oscilloscopes, voltmeters, multimeters, frequency counters, bench and system power supplies, function generators and waveform synthesizers. 

Modular instruments and test software are used by the designers and manufacturers of electronic devices as the building blocks of systems that can be configured for a wide variety of test applications, and changed as needed by a combination of modular hardware and software components. Examples include test systems for aviation systems maintenance and multi-function university labs. 

Our digital test products are used by research and development engineers across a broad range of industries to validate the function and performance of their digital product and system designs. These designs include a wide range of products from simple digital control circuits to complex high speed systems such as computer servers and the latest generation gaming consoles. The test products offered include high-performance oscilloscopes, logic and serial protocol analyzers, logic-signal sources and data generators. 

Our semiconductor and board test solutions enable customers to develop and test state of the art semiconductors, test and inspect printed circuit boards, perform functional testing, and measure position and distance information to the sub-nanometer level. We supply parametric test instruments and systems used primarily to examine semiconductor wafers during the manufacturing process. Our in-circuit test system helps identify quality defects, such as faulty or incorrect parts, that affect electrical performance. Our laser interferometer measurement systems are based on precision optical technology and provide precise position or distance information for dimensional measurements. 

Our atomic force microscopes ("AFM") are high-resolution imaging devices that can resolve features as small as an atomic 13 lattice. An AFM allows researchers to observe and manipulate molecular and atomic level features. Our expanding portfolio of AFM products provides customers with reliable, easy-to-use tools for a wide range of nanotechnology applications, including semiconductor, data storage, polymers, materials science and life science studies. 

Our surveillance systems and subsystems are used by defense and government engineers and technicians to detect, locate and analyze signals of interest. These signals may be transmitted via radio frequency signals or wire lines. The products offered include receivers for detecting radio frequency signals, probes for detecting wire line signals and software that enables the identification and analysis of these signals. 

Electronic Measurement Customers Agilent's electronic measurement customers include contract manufacturers of electronic products, handset manufacturers and network equipment manufacturers who design, develop, manufacture and install network equipment, service providers who implement, maintain and manage communication networks and services, and companies who design, develop, and manufacture semiconductors and semiconductor lithography systems. Our customers use our products to conduct research and development, manufacture, install and maintain radio frequency, microwave frequency, digital, semiconductor, and optical products and systems and conduct nanotechnology research. Many of our customers purchase solutions across several of our major product lines for their different business units. 

We had approximately 15,000 customers for electronic measurement products in fiscal 2012 and n o single customer represented a material amount of the net revenue of the electronic measurement business. 

In general, the orders and revenues from many of the electronic measurement markets and product categories are seasonal, traditionally marked by lower business levels in the first quarter of the fiscal year and higher volumes in the fourth quarter of the fiscal year. This seasonality is particularly evident in products that we sell into the aerospace and defense industry, as well as those linked to consumer spending, which includes some of our communications test equipment. The seasonal impact of our business is tempered by broader economic trends and the diversity of our electronic measurement products and customers, which span multiple industries. 

Electronic Measurement Sales, Marketing and Support We have a focused sales strategy, using a direct sales force, resellers, manufacturer's representatives and distributors to meet our customers' needs. Our direct sales force is focused on identifying customer needs and recommending solutions involving the effective use and deployment of our equipment, services, systems and capabilities. Some members of our direct sales force focus on global accounts, providing uniform services on a worldwide basis. Others focus on our more complex products such as our high-performance instruments, where customers require strategic consultation. Our sales force also engages with the contract manufacturer market by collaborating with original equipment manufacturers to specify our test equipment for contract manufacturer test applications, as well as marketing to contract manufacturers directly. 

Our direct sales force consists of field engineers and systems engineers who have in-depth knowledge of the customers' business and technology needs. Our systems engineers provide a combination of consulting, systems integration and application and software engineering services and are instrumental in all stages of the sale, implementation and support of our complex systems and solutions. 

To complement our direct sales force we have agreements with many channel partners around the world. These partners, including resellers, manufacturer's representatives, and distributors, serve Agilent's customers across a number of product lines and provide the same level of service and support expected from our direct channel. Lower dollar transactions can also be served by our tele-sales and electronic commerce channels. 

Our products typically come with standard warranties, and extended warranties are available at additional cost. 

Electronic Measurement Manufacturing We concentrate our electronic measurement manufacturing efforts primarily on final assembly and test of our products. To maximize our productivity and our ability to respond to market conditions, we use contract manufacturers for the production of printed circuit boards, sheet metal fabrication, metal die-casting, plastic molding and standard electronic components. We also manufacture proprietary devices and assemblies in our own fabrication facilities for competitive advantage. We have manufacturing facilities in California and Colorado in the U.S. Outside of the U.S. we have manufacturing facilities in China, Germany, Japan and Malaysia. 

14 We generally only manufacture products when we have received firm orders for delivery and do not generally hold large stocks of finished inventory. 

Electronic Measurement Competition The market for electronic measurement equipment is highly competitive. Our electronic measurement business competes with a number of significant competitors in all our major product categories and across our targeted industries. In the communications test market our primary competitors are Aeroflex Incorporated, Anritsu Corporation, Ansoft Corporation (a subsidiary of Ansys Corporation), National Instruments Corporation, Rohde & Schwartz GmbH & Co. KG, Spirent plc, Tektronix, Inc. (a subsidiary of Danaher Corporation) and Teradyne, Inc. In the general purpose test market, we compete against companies such as Aeroflex Incorporated, Bruker Corporation, Fluke Corporation (a subsidiary of Danaher Corporation), Teledyne Technologies Incorporated, National Instruments Corporation, Rohde & Schwartz GmbH & Co. KG, Tektronix, Inc. (a subsidiary of Danaher Corporation), Teradyne, Inc., Test Research Inc., and Zygo Corporation. 

Our electronic measurement business offers a wide range of products, and these products compete primarily on the basis of product quality and functionality, as well as performance and reliability. 

Agilent Technologies Research Laboratories Agilent Technologies Research Laboratories ("Research Labs") is our research organization based in Santa Clara, California, with offices in Europe and China. The Research Labs create competitive advantage through high-impact technology, driving market leadership and growth in Agilent's core businesses and expanding Agilent's measurement footprint into adjacent markets. At the cross-roads of the organization, the Research Labs are able to identify and enable synergies across Agilent's businesses to create competitive differentiation and compelling customer value. 

The technical staff have advanced degrees that cover a wide range of scientific and engineering fields, including biology, chemistry, computer science, distributed measurement, electrical engineering, image processing, materials science, mathematics, nano/microfabrication, microfluidics, software, informatics, optics, physics, physiology and signal processing. As of the end of October 2012, Research Labs employed approximately 250 personnel worldwide. 

Global Infrastructure Organization We provide support to our businesses through our global infrastructure organization. This support includes services in the areas of finance, legal, workplace services, human resources and information technology. Generally these organizations are centrally operated from Santa Clara, California, with services provided worldwide. As of the end of October 2012, our global infrastructure organization employed approximately 3,000 people worldwide including Research Labs. 

Agilent Order Fulfillment Organization Beginning in fiscal year 2012, we created the Agilent Order Fulfillment organization to centralize all order fulfillment and supply organizations and operations. AOF leverages our strength in manufacturing, engineering, strategic sourcing and logistics for life sciences, chemical analysis and electronic measurement businesses. In general, AOF employees are dedicated to specific businesses and business headcount numbers include AOF employees. 

The following discussions of Research and Development, Backlog, Intellectual Property, Materials, Environmental, International Operations and Acquisition and Disposal of Material Assets include information common to each of our businesses. 

Research and Development Research and development ("R&D") expenditures were $668 million in 2012, $649 million in 2011 and $612 million in 2010, the vast majority of which was company-sponsored. We anticipate that we will continue to have significant R&D expenditures in order to maintain our competitive position with a continuing flow of innovative, high-quality products and services. 

Backlog Backlog represents the amount of revenue expected from orders that have already been booked, including orders for goods and services that have not been delivered to customers, orders invoiced but not yet recognized as revenue, and orders for goods 15 that were shipped but not invoiced, awaiting acceptance by customers. Backlog amounts have been restated for the year ended October 31, 2011 to conform to this definition. 

On October 31, 2012 , our unfilled backlog for the electronic measurement business was approximately $800 million, as compared to approximately $850 million at October 31, 2011 . On October 31, 2012 , our unfilled backlog for the chemical analysis business was approximately $360 million, as compared to approximately $320 million at October 31, 2011 . Within our life sciences business, our unfilled backlog was approximately $500 million on October 31, 2012 as compared to approximately $490 million at October 31, 2011 . On October 31, 2012 , our unfilled backlog for the diagnostics and genomics business was approximately $30 million, as compared to approximately $30 million at October 31, 2011 . We expect that a majority of the unfilled backlog for all four businesses will be delivered to customers within six months. On average, our unfilled backlog represents approximately three months' worth of revenues. We believe backlog on any particular date, while indicative of short-term revenue performance, is not necessarily a reliable indicator of medium or long-term revenue performance. 

Intellectual Property We generate patent and other intellectual property rights covering significant inventions and other innovations in order to create a competitive advantage. While we believe that our licenses, patents and other intellectual property rights have value, in general no single license, patent or other intellectual property right is in itself material. In addition, our intellectual property rights may be challenged invalidated or circumvented or may otherwise not provide significant competitive advantage. 

Materials Our manufacturing operations employ a wide variety of semiconductors, electromechanical components and assemblies and raw materials such as plastic resins and sheet metal. Our electronic measurement, chemical analysis, life sciences and diagnostics and genomics businesses all purchase materials from thousands of suppliers on a global basis. Some of the parts that require custom design work are not readily available from alternate suppliers due to their unique design or the length of time necessary for design work. Our long-term relationships with suppliers allow us to proactively manage technology road maps and product discontinuance plans and monitor their financial health. Even so, some suppliers may still extend their lead times, limit supplies, increase prices or cease to produce necessary parts for our products. If these are unique components, we may not be able to find a substitute quickly or at all. To address the potential disruption in our supply chain, we use a number of techniques, including qualifying multiple sources of supply and redesign of products for alternative components. In addition, while we generally attempt to keep our inventory at minimal levels, we do purchase incremental inventory as circumstances warrant to protect the supply chain. 

Environmental Our R&D, manufacturing and distribution operations involve the use of hazardous substances and are regulated under international, federal, state and local laws governing health and safety and the environment. We apply strict standards for protection of the environment and occupational health and safety to sites inside and outside the U.S., even if not subject to regulation imposed by foreign governments. We believe that our properties and operations at our facilities comply in all material respects with applicable environmental laws and occupational health and safety laws. However, the risk of environmental liabilities cannot be completely eliminated and there can be no assurance that the application of environmental and health and safety laws to Agilent will not require us to incur significant expenditures. We are also regulated under a number of international, federal, state, and local laws regarding recycling, product packaging and product content requirements. The environmental, product content/disposal and recycling laws are gradually becoming more stringent and may cause us to incur significant expenditures in the future. 

Some of our operations are located on properties that are known to have subsurface contamination undergoing remediation by our former parent company, Hewlett-Packard Company ("HP"). As part of the initial separation agreement from HP in 1999, HP agreed to retain the liability for the contamination, perform the required remediation and indemnify us with respect to claims arising out of the contamination. The determination of the existence and cost of remediation of additional contamination caused by us, if any, could involve costly and time-consuming negotiations and litigation. While we expect that HP will meet its remediation and indemnification obligations in this regard, there can be no guarantee that it will do so. Under our agreement with HP, HP will have access to these properties to perform the remediation. HP has agreed to minimize interference with on-site operations at those properties during the course of the remediation, but there can be no guarantee that our operations will not be interrupted or that we will not be required to incur unreimbursed costs associated with the remediation. The remediation could also harm on-site operations and the future use and negatively affect the value and future use of the properties. Several of the sites under the initial separation agreement from HP have been sold. 

In addition, some of these properties are undergoing remediation by HP under an order of an agency of the state in which 16 the property is located. Although HP has agreed to indemnify us with respect to such subsurface contamination, it is possible that one or more of the governmental agencies will require us to be named on any of these orders. The naming of Agilent will not affect HP's obligation to indemnify us with regard to these matters. 

We are liable and are indemnifying HP for any contamination found at all facilities transferred to us by HP excluding the properties undergoing remediation. In addition, we are obligated to indemnify HP for liability associated with past non-compliance with environmental laws regulating ongoing operations, if any, at all properties transferred to us by HP, as well as at sold or discontinued businesses that are related to our businesses. While we are not aware of any material liabilities associated with such indemnified matters, there is no guarantee that such contamination or regulatory non-compliance does not exist, and will not expose us to material liability in the future. 

We are being indemnified by HP with respect to all environmental liabilities for which HP accrued a reserve, and we are not aware of any material environmental liabilities assumed by us which are not subject to the indemnity. 

As part of our acquisition of Varian in 2010, we assumed the liabilities of Varian, including Varian's costs and potential liabilities for environmental matters. One such cost is our obligation, along with the obligation of Varian Semiconductor Equipment Associates, Inc. ("VSEA") (under the terms of a Distribution Agreement between Varian, VSEA and Varian Medical Systems, Inc. ("VMS")) to each indemnify VMS for one-third of certain costs (after adjusting for any insurance proceeds and tax benefits recognized or realized by VMS for such costs) relating to (a) environmental investigation, monitoring and/or remediation activities at certain facilities previously operated by Varian Associates, Inc. ("VAI") and third-party claims made in connection with environmental conditions at those facilities, and (b) U.S. Environmental Protection Agency or third-party claims alleging that VAI or VMS is a potentially responsible party under the Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, as amended ("CERCLA") in connection with certain sites to which VAI allegedly shipped manufacturing waste for recycling, treatment or disposal (the "CERCLA sites"). With respect to the facilities formerly operated by VAI, VMS is overseeing the environmental investigation, monitoring and/or remediation activities, in most cases under the direction of, or in consultation with, federal, state and/or local agencies, and handling third-party claims. VMS is also handling claims relating to the CERCLA sites. Although any ultimate liability arising from environmental- related matters could result in significant expenditures that, if aggregated and assumed to occur within a single fiscal year, could be material to our financial statements, the likelihood of such occurrence is considered remote. Based on information currently available and our best assessment of the ultimate amount and timing of environmental-related events, management believes that the costs of environmental-related matters are unlikely to have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. 

We maintain a comprehensive Environmental Site Liability insurance policy which may cover certain clean-up costs or legal claims related to environmental contamination. This policy covers specified active, inactive and divested locations. 

International Operations Our net revenue originating outside the U.S., as a percentage of our total net revenue, was approximately 68 percent in fiscal 2012, 70 percent in fiscal 2011, and 68 percent in fiscal 2010, the majority of which was from customers other than foreign governments. Annual revenues derived from China were approximately 16 percent in fiscal 2012 and 2011 and 14 percent in fiscal 2010. Approximately 10 percent of our revenue in fiscal 2012, 11 percent in fiscal 2011 and 10 percent in fiscal 2010 was derived from Japan. Revenues from external customers are generally attributed to countries based upon the location of the Agilent sales representative. 

Long-lived assets located outside of the U.S., as a percentage of our total long-lived assets, was approximately 60 percent in fiscal year 2012, 56 percent in fiscal year 2011 and 52 percent in fiscal year 2010. Approximately 12, 13 and 13 percent of our long-lived assets were located in Japan in fiscal years 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. 

Most of our sales in international markets are made by foreign sales subsidiaries. In countries with low sales volumes, sales are made through various representatives and distributors. However, we also sell into international markets directly from the U.S. 

Our international business is subject to risks customarily encountered in foreign operations, including interruption to transportation flows for delivery of parts to us and finished goods to our customers, changes in a specific country's or region's political or economic conditions, trade protection measures, import or export licensing requirements, consequences from changes in tax laws and regulatory requirements, difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations, differing labor regulations, differing protection of intellectual property and geopolitical turmoil, including terrorism and war. We are also exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk inherent in our sales commitments, anticipated sales and expenses, and assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the local functional currency, and may also become subject to interest rate risk inherent in any debt we incur, or investment portfolios we hold. There may be an increased risk of political unrest in regions where we have significant 17 manufacturing operations such as Southeast Asia. However, we believe that our international diversification provides stability to our worldwide operations and reduces the impact on us of adverse economic changes in any single country. Financial information about our international operations is contained in Note 21, "Segment Information", to our consolidated financial statements. 

Acquisition of Material Assets On June 21, 2012, we acquired Dako through the purchase of 100% of the share capital of Dako, a limited liability company incorporated under the laws of Denmark, under the share purchase agreement, dated May 16, 2012. Dako provides antibodies, reagents, scientific instruments and software primarily to customers in pathology laboratories. As a result of the acquisition, Dako has become a wholly-owned subsidiary of Agilent. The consideration paid was approximately $2.143 billion, of which $1.4 billion was paid directly to the seller and $743 million was paid to satisfy the outstanding debt of Dako. Agilent funded the acquisition using our existing cash. 

On May 14, 2010, we completed our acquisition of Varian, Inc., a leading supplier of scientific instrumentation and associated consumables for life science and applied market applications, for a total cash purchase price of approximately $1.5 billion. Varian's products include analytical instruments, research products and related software, consumable products, accessories and services, as well as vacuum products and related services and accessories. The acquisition broadens Agilent's applications and solutions offerings in life sciences, environmental, and energy and materials. It also expands Agilent's product portfolio into atomic and molecular spectroscopy; establishes a leading position in nuclear magnetic resonance, imaging and vacuum technologies; and strengthens our consumables portfolio. We financed the purchase price of Varian using the proceeds from our September 2009 offering of senior notes and other existing cash. Varian's cash acquired at completion of the acquisition was approximately $226 million. 

Executive Officers of the Registrant The names of our current executive officers and their ages, titles and biographies appear below: Solange Glaize, 48, has served as our Vice President, Corporate Controllership and Chief Accounting Officer since March, 2012. From June 2011 to March 2012, Ms. Glaize served as our Vice President of Finance and Business Development, Group CFO, Life Sciences Group and from September 2009 to June 2011 as Vice President of Finance, Group CFO, Life Sciences Group. From May 2005 to November 2009, she served as Senior Director of Finance, Life Sciences Solution Unit. Ms. Glaize has previously served in various capacities for Agilent, including as Director of Finance, Worldwide Order Fulfillment, Director of Sales Finance and Administration, Semiconductor Products Group and as Managing Director, European Financial Services. Prior to joining Agilent, Ms. Glaize held a variety of positions in finance with Hewlett-Packard Company. 

Jean M. Halloran, 60, has served as our Senior Vice President, Human Resources since from August 1999. From 1997 to 1999, Ms. Halloran served as Director of Corporate Education and Development for Hewlett Packard. Prior to assuming this position, from 1993 to 1997, Ms. Halloran acted as human resources manager for Hewlett Packard's Measurement Systems Organization. Ms. Halloran joined Hewlett Packard in 1980 in the Medical Products Group, where she held a variety of positions in human resources, manufacturing and strategic planning. 

Didier Hirsch, 61, has served as our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since July 2010 and served as interim Chief Financial Officer from April 2010 to July 2010. Prior to that he served as Vice President, Corporate Controllership and Tax from November 2006 to July 2010 and as Chief Accounting Officer from November 2007 to July 2010. From April 2003 to October 2006, Mr. Hirsch served as Vice President and Controller. Prior to assuming this position, Mr. Hirsch served as Vice President and Treasurer from September 1999 to April 2003. Mr. Hirsch had joined Hewlett Packard Company in 1989 as Director of Finance and Administration of Hewlett Packard France. In 1993, he became Director of Finance and Administration of Hewlett Packard Asia Pacific, and in 1996 Director of Finance and Administration of Hewlett Packard Europe, Middle East, and Africa. Mr. Hirsch serves on the Board of Directors of Logitech International and International Rectifier Corporation. 

Marie Oh Huber, 51, has served as Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary since September 2009 and serves as an officer or director for a variety of Agilent subsidiaries. She served as our Vice President, Deputy General Counsel and Assistant Secretary from June 2007 to September 2009 and as our Vice President, Assistant General Counsel and Assistant Secretary from July 2002 to June 2007. She is also a director of the American Leadership Forum - Silicon Valley. 

Michael R. McMullen , 51, has served as Senior Vice President, Agilent and President, Chemical Analysis Group since September 2009. From January 2002 to September 2009, he served as our Vice President and General Manager of the Chemical Analysis Solutions Unit of the Life Sciences and Chemical Analysis Group. Prior to assuming this position, from March 1999 to December 2001, Mr. McMullen served as Country Manager for Agilent's China, Japan and Korea Life Sciences and Chemical 18 Analysis Group. Prior to this position, Mr. McMullen served as our Controller for the Hewlett Packard Company and Yokogawa Electric Joint Venture from July 1996 to March 1999. 

Ronald S. Nersesian, 53, has served as President since November 2012 and as Chief Operating Officer since November 2011. From November 2011 to November 2012 Mr. Nersesian served as Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer. He served as our Senior Vice President, Agilent and President, Electronic Measurement Group from March 2009 to November 2011, as our Vice President and General Manager of the Wireless Business Unit of the Electronics Measurement Group from February 2005 to February 2009, and as our Vice President and General Manager of the Design Validation Division from May 2002 to February 2005. Prior to joining Agilent, Mr. Nersesian served in management positions with LeCroy Corporation from 1996 to 2002. Mr. Nersesian serves on the Board of Directors of Trimble Navigation Limited. 

Nicolas H. Roelofs, 54, has served as Senior Vice President, Agilent and President, Life Sciences Group since September 2009. From June 2006 to September 2009 he served as our Vice President and General Manager of the Life Sciences Solutions Unit of the Life Sciences and Chemical Analysis Group. Prior to joining Agilent, Mr. Roelofs served as Group Operations Officer of the Life Sciences Group of Bio-Rad Laboratories from January 2005 to May 2006. Prior to that, Mr. Roelofs served as Chief Operating Officer of Stratagene Corporation from September 2001 to December 2004. 

Guy S n , 58, has served as Senior Vice President, Agilent and President, Electronic Measurement Group since November 2011. From May 2009 to November 2011, Mr. S n served as our Vice President and General Manager, Microwave and Communications Division of the Electronic Measurement Group, and from October 2006 to April 2009, he served as our Vice President and General Manager, Signal Analysis Division. Prior to that, Mr. S n held a broad variety of positions in sales, marketing and support in Europe and Asia for Agilent and Hewlett Packard Company. 

William P. Sullivan, 62, has served as Agilent's Chief Executive Officer and a Director since March 2005 and as President from March 2005 to November 2012. Before being named as Agilent's Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Sullivan served as Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer from March 2002 to March 2005. In that capacity, he shared the responsibilities of the president's office with Agilent's former President and Chief Executive Officer, Edward W. Barnholt. Mr. Sullivan also had overall responsibility for Agilent's Electronic Products and Solutions Group, the company's largest business group. Prior to assuming that position, Mr. Sullivan served as our Senior Vice President, Semiconductor Products Group, from August 1999 to March 2002. Before that, Mr. Sullivan held various management positions at Hewlett Packard Company. Mr. Sullivan serves on the Board of the Children's Discovery Museum in San Jose, California, as well as on the Board of Directors of URS Corporation and Avnet, Inc. 

Investor Information We are subject to the informational requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 ( Exchange Act ). Therefore, we file periodic reports, proxy statements and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ). Such reports, proxy statements and other information may be read and copied by visiting the Public Reference Room of the SEC at 100 F Street N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. You may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, the SEC maintains an Internet site (http://www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically. 

You can access financial and other information at our Investor Relations website. The address is www.investor.agilent.com. We make available, free of charge, copies of our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after filing such material electronically or otherwise furnishing it to the SEC. 

Our Amended and Restated Corporate Governance Standards, the charters of our Audit and Finance Committee, our Compensation Committee, our Executive Committee and our Nominating/Corporate Governance Committee, as well as our Standards of Business Conduct (including code of ethics provisions that apply to our principal executive officer, principal financial officer, principal accounting officer and senior financial officers) are available on our website at www.investor.agilent.com under Corporate Governance . These items are also available in print to any stockholder in the United States and Canada who requests them by calling (877) 942-4200. This information is also available by writing to the company at the address on the cover of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

19