http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1090872/000104746906015256/a2175273z10-k.htm
http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1090872/000104746906015256/0001047469-06-015256-index.html
16359000000.0
A
2006-10-31
10-K
A_2006-10-31_10-K.txt

 Item 1A and elsewhere in this Form 10-K. 

PART I Item 1. 

Business Overview Agilent Technologies, Inc. ("we", "Agilent" or the "company"), incorporated in Delaware in May 1999, is the world's premier measurement company providing core bio-analytical and electronic measurement solutions to the communications, electronics, life sciences and chemical analysis industries. 

In August 2005, the Board of Directors of Agilent approved the divestiture of both our semiconductor products business and our semiconductor test solutions business. Both of these divestitures were completed during our most recent fiscal year. In December 2005, we completed the sale of our semiconductor products business to Avago Technologies Ltd. ("Avago") for approximately $2.6 billion in cash proceeds. On June 1, 2006, Agilent transferred substantially all of the assets and liabilities of its semiconductor test solutions business to a separate company, Verigy Ltd. ("Verigy"), then a wholly owned subsidiary of Agilent. In June and July 2006, Verigy sold approximately 8.7 million of its ordinary shares, or approximately 15 percent of its outstanding shares, in an initial public offering. On October 31, 2006, we distributed our remaining holding in Verigy to our stockholders. 

We have reflected the semiconductor products business and the semiconductor test solutions business as discontinued operations for all periods presented in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. For further information, see Note 3, "Discontinued Operations of Our Semiconductor Products Business" and Note 4, "Discontinued Operations of Our Semiconductor Test Solutions Business", to our consolidated financial statements. 

We currently have two businesses, the electronic measurement business and the bio-analytical measurement business. Our electronic measurement business focuses on growth opportunities in the communications and electronics industries, while our bio-analytical measurement business focuses on core business and growth opportunities in the life sciences industry and in the environmental, chemical, food and petrochemical industries. In addition to our two businesses, we conduct centralized research through Agilent Technologies Laboratories. Each of our businesses, including 3 Agilent Labs, is supported by our general infrastructure organization, which provides shared services in the areas of finance, information technology, legal, workplace services and human resources. 

We sell our products primarily through direct sales, but we also utilize distributors, resellers, manufacturer's representatives, telesales and electronic commerce. Of our total net revenue of $4.97 billion for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2006, we generated 34 percent in the United States and 66 percent outside the U.S. As of October 31, 2006, we employed approximately 18,700 people worldwide. Our primary research, development and manufacturing sites are in California, Colorado, Delaware and Washington in the U.S. and in China, Germany, Japan, Malaysia, Singapore and the United Kingdom. 

Net revenue for each of our businesses for the years ended October 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 was: Electronic Measurement Business Our electronic measurement business provides standard and customized electronic measurement instruments and systems, monitoring, management and optimization tools for communications networks and services, software design tools and related services that are used in the design, development, manufacture, installation, deployment and operation of electronics equipment and communications networks and services. Related services include start-up assistance, instrument productivity and application services and instrument calibration and repair. We also offer customization, consulting and optimization services throughout the customer's product lifecycle. 

Our electronic measurement business employed approximately 11,850 people as of October 31, 2006. We sell our electronic measurement products through direct sales, distributors, resellers, manufacturer's representatives, telesales and electronic commerce. Our electronic measurement business generated $3.4 billion in revenue in fiscal 2006, $3.3 billion in revenue in fiscal 2005 and $3.2 billion in revenue in fiscal 2004. 

Electronic Measurement Markets Our electronic measurement products compete in the communications test market and the general purpose test market. 

The Communications Test Market We market our communications test products and services to handset manufacturers, network equipment manufacturers ("NEMs") and communications service providers. NEMs manufacture and sell products to facilitate the transmission of voice, data and video traffic. The NEMs' customers are the distributors of end-user subscriber devices, including wireless personal communication devices and set-top boxes, as well as communications service providers that deploy and operate the networks and services. To meet their customers' demands, NEMs require test and measurement instruments, systems and solutions for the development, production and installation of each network technology. 

Communications service providers require reliable network equipment that enables their networks and services to operate at ever-faster speeds, offer a growing range of services permits an 4 expanding capacity and provides quick feedback. To achieve this, communications service providers require a range of sophisticated test instruments and systems to evaluate network performance and to identify any sources of communications failure. 

Agilent's communications service provider customers require advanced software and systems, known as operations support systems ("OSS"), to monitor and manage the network infrastructure and services on a continuous, proactive basis to achieve either regulated or customer-specified service levels. 

The communications test market accounted for approximately 43 percent of revenue from our electronic measurement business in 2006. 

The General Purpose Test Market We market our general purpose test products and services to the electronics industry and other industries with significant electronic content such as the aerospace and defense industries. These electronics and electronics-dependent industries design, develop and manufacture a wide range of products, including those produced in high volumes, such as computers, computer peripherals, electronic components, consumer electronics, enterprise servers, storage networks and communications devices, and automotive electronics. The components, printed circuit assemblies and functional devices for these products may be designed, developed and manufactured by electronic components companies, by original equipment manufacturers or by contract manufacturers. For the development and timely commercialization of new technologies, manufacturers require state-of-the-art test instruments, systems and software design tools in order to design products for efficient and cost-effective manufacturing and to validate product performance in a variety of configurations and environments. They also demand automated functional test systems, which test an electronic device as if it were in use in its final environment. 

Customers use our general purpose test solutions in development and manufacturing a wide variety of electronic components and systems. These include testing multiple parameters of printed circuit boards used in almost every electronic application; testing the electrical parameters of wafers used in the semiconductor manufacturing process; and testing of flat panel displays. 

The general purpose test market accounted for approximately 57 percent of revenue from our electronic measurement business in 2006. 

Electronic Measurement Products We divide our electronic measurement products into communications test products and general purpose test products. 

Communications Test Products We sell communications test products and services for the following types of communications networks and systems: fiber optics networks, transport networks, broadband and data networks, wireless communications and microwave networks. In addition, we provide assistance with installation and maintenance of our products and operational support systems to enable network, service and customer assurance for network operators. 

Our suite of fiber optic network test products measure and analyze a wide variety of critical optical and electrical parameters in fiber optic networks and their comprising components. 

5 Components which can be tested include source lasers, optical amplifiers, filters and other passive components. 

Our broadband and data network test products include our network analyzer and router testers. Our network analyzer product line helps to troubleshoot high-speed local area networks, wide area networks and asynchronous transfer mode networks. Router testers are used to develop and test the performance of enterprise and carrier-class routers. 

Our wireless communications and microwave network products include radio frequency and microwave test instruments and electronic design automation software tools, which assist in the design and production of cellular handsets and base stations, as well as satellite and aerospace defense systems. 

Our installation and maintenance assistance facilitates the installation, commission and activation of networks and services. We have a breadth of products for troubleshooting and maintaining optical, wireless, wireline and large-company networks. 

Our operational support systems products manage performance and quality of network service and customer experience for broadband, data, wireless and converged networks and services. 

General Purpose Test Products We sell the following types of products into the general purpose test market: general purpose instruments, modular instruments and test software, digital design products, parametric test products, high frequency electronic design tools, electronics manufacturing test equipment and thin-film transistor array test equipment, nano-positioning systems, atomic-force microscopy and scanning probe microscopy. 

General purpose instruments are used principally by engineers in research and development laboratories, manufacturing, calibration and service for measuring voltage, current, frequency, signal pulse width and other standard electronics measurements and include spectrum analyzers, network analyzers, signal generators, digitizing oscilloscopes, voltmeters, multimeters, frequency counters, bench and system power supplies, function generators and waveform synthesizers. 

Modular instruments and test software are used by the designers and manufacturers of electronic devices as the building blocks of systems that can be configured for a wide variety of test applications, and changed as needed by a combination of modular hardware and software components. Examples include test systems for aviation systems maintenance and multi-function university labs. 

Our digital design products are used by research and development engineers in the computer, communications and semiconductor industries to validate and verify the performance of digital product designs. These include simple digital control circuits, complex high-speed servers, high-performance oscilloscopes, logic analyzers, logic-signal sources and data generators. Digital product design opportunities include high-speed input/output connectivity in computer servers and hardware development for latest generation gaming consoles. 

Our high-frequency electronic design automation software tools are used by radio frequency integrated circuit design engineers to model, simulate and analyze communications product designs at the circuit and system levels. The main products in this area represent well-established software platforms within the wireless and the aerospace and defense design industries. Our customers are also 6 applying this technology more frequently to model signal integrity problems in digital design applications. 

Our parametric test instruments and systems combine hardware technology and customizable system software and are used primarily to examine semiconductor wafers during the semiconductor manufacturing process. 

Our electronic manufacturing test product categories are Automated Optical Inspection Products that enable automated visual inspection of printed circuit assemblies, Automated X-ray Inspection Products that provide a three-dimensional scan of printed circuit board assemblies to identify and isolate quality defects caused by the manufacturing process, Automated In-Circuit Testing Products that identify quality defects such as bad and incorrect parts that affect electrical performance and allow early repair of these defects, and Manufacturing Test System Software that provides common tools to enable customers to use information across the manufacturing line for effective process control, repair and test design. 

Our thin-film transistor array tester products provide flat panel display (or FPD) manufacturers with test solutions in the rapidly growing FPD market. An array tester can provide significant cost savings by detecting defects early in the manufacturing process of FPDs. 

Our nano-positioning products utilize very precise measurements (through laser interferometer technology) to ensure precise motion control and placement, used primarily in semiconductor manufacturing applications. Our products offer nanometer scale imaging and measurements in fluids, air and gases and are utilized in biotechnology, electrochemistry and materials science applications. 

Electronic Measurement Customers Agilent's electronic measurement customers include contract manufactures, handset manufacturers, network equipment manufacturers who design, develop, manufacture and install network equipment, and service providers who implement, maintain and manage communication networks and services. We also engage in collaborative relationships with contract manufacturers. Many of our customers purchase solutions across several of our major product lines for their different business units. As of the end of fiscal 2006, no single customer represented greater than 10 percent of the net revenue of the business. 

The orders and revenues from many of the electronic measurement markets and product categories are seasonal, with our fourth quarter traditionally bringing larger volumes of business and our first quarter generally showing reduced volumes. This is especially true of products that we sell in the aerospace and defense industry as well as those that are linked to consumer spending, including some of our communications test equipment. However, the seasonal impact is tempered by the diversity of the electronic measurement business's products and customers, which span multiple industries. 

Electronic Measurement Sales, Marketing and Support We have a focused sales strategy, using a direct sales force, resellers, manufacturer's representatives and distributors to strengthen customer satisfaction. Our direct sales force is focused on identifying customer needs and recommending solutions involving the effective use and deployment of our equipment, services, systems and capabilities. Some members of our direct sales force focus on global accounts, providing uniform services on a worldwide basis. Others focus on our more complex products such as our OSS communications monitoring and management systems, where customers require intensive strategic consultation. Our sales force also specifically targets the contract 7 manufacturer market by collaborating with original equipment manufacturers to specify that contract manufacturers use our test equipment, as well as marketing to contract manufacturers directly. 

Our direct sales force consists of field engineers and systems engineers who have in-depth knowledge of the customers' business and technology needs. Our systems engineers provide a combination of consulting, systems integration and application and software engineering services and are instrumental in all stages of the sale, implementation and support of our complex systems and solutions. 

To complement our direct sales force we have agreements with many channel partners around the world. These partners, including resellers, manufacturer's representatives, and distributors, serve Agilent's customers across a number of product lines and provide the same level of service and support expected from our direct channel. Lower volume transactions can also be served by our tele-sales and electronic commerce channels. 

Our products typically come with standard warranties, and extended warranties are available for additional cost. 

Electronic Measurement Manufacturing We concentrate our electronic measurement manufacturing efforts primarily on final assembly and test of our products. To maximize our productivity and our ability to respond to market conditions, we use contract manufacturers for the production of printed circuit boards, sheet metal fabrication, metal die-casting, plastic molding and standard electronic components. We also manufacture proprietary devices and assemblies, in our own fabrication facilities for competitive advantage. 

We generally only manufacture products when we have received firm orders for delivery and do not generally hold large stocks of finished inventory. 

Electronic Measurement Competition The market for electronic measurement equipment is highly competitive. Our electronic measurement business competes with a number of significant competitors in all our major product categories and across our targeted industries. In the general purpose test market, we compete against companies such as Applied Komatsu Technologies, Fluke Corporation (a subsidiary of Danaher Corporation), Keithley Instruments, Inc., LeCroy Corporation, National Instruments Corporation, Photon Dynamics, Inc., Shimadzu Corporation, Tektronix, Inc., Teradyne, Inc., and Wintest Corp. In the communications test market our primary competitors are Aeroflex Incorporated, Anritsu Corporation, Ansoft Corporation, APLAC Solutions Corporation, Applied Wave Research, Inc., EXFO Electro-Optical Engineering, Inc., a unit of IBM Software (formerly Micromuse, Inc.), Ixia, JDS Uniphase, Marconi Corporation plc, Rohde & Schwartz GmbH & Co. KG, Spirent plc and Tektronix, Inc. 

Our electronic measurement business offers a wide range of products, and these products compete primarily on the basis of product quality and functionality, as well as performance and reliability. 

Bio-Analytical Measurement Business Our bio-analytical measurement business provides application-focused solutions that include instruments, software, consumables and services that enable customers to identify, quantify and analyze the physical and biological properties of substances and products. Our seven key product 8 categories include: microarrays, microfluidics, gas chromatography, liquid chromatography, mass spectrometry, software and informatics, and related consumables and services. 

We employed approximately 4,100 people as of October 31, 2006 in our bio-analytical measurement business. This business generated revenue of $1.6 billion in fiscal 2006, $1.4 billion in fiscal 2005, and $1.3 billion in fiscal 2004. 

Bio-Analytical Measurement Markets Primarily, our bio-analytical measurement business serves the following markets: Life Sciences Markets Our life science markets accounted for approximately 43 percent of revenue from our bio-analytical measurement business in 2006. Within the life sciences, we focus on the following three primary market categories: The Pharma, Biotech, CRO & CMO Market. 

This market consists of "for-profit" companies who participate across the pharmaceutical value chain in the areas of: research, discovery & development, clinical trials, and manufacturing and quality assurance and quality control. One sub-segment of this market is the core and emerging pharmaceutical companies, or "Pharma". A second sub-segment includes biotechnology companies, or "biotech", contract research organizations, or "CROs", and contract manufacturing organizations, or "CMOs". Biotech and, to a somewhat lesser extent, CROs and CMOs typically participate in specific points in the Pharma industry value chain. 

The Academic and Government Market. 

This market consists primarily of "not-for-profit" organizations and includes academic institutions, large government institutes and privately funded organizations. The academic and government market plays an influential role in technology adoption and therapeutic developments for Pharma and molecular diagnostics companies. After decades of investment in basic biomedical research, the focus is widening to include translational research multidisciplinary scientific efforts directed at "accelerating therapy development". Notable are efforts by the National Institute of Health, the National Cancer Institute, and EORTC (European Organization), EMBL (Europe), Singapore Genomics Institute, and National Translational Cancer Research Network (UK). In addition large donations by private foundations are also fueling growth in this key market segment. 

The Clinical Diagnostic Market. 

The clinical diagnostic market is an emerging growth opportunity that could be addressed by leveraging existing platforms like microfluidics, microarrays, and liquid chromatography/mass spectrometry. The clinical diagnostic market is viewed by us as an area for strategic growth. 

Chemical Analysis Markets Our chemical analysis markets accounted for approximately 57 percent of revenue from the bio-analytical measurement business in 2006. Within chemical analysis, we focus primarily on the following areas: petrochemical, environmental, homeland security and forensics, and bioagriculture and food safety. 

The Petroleum and Chemical Market. 

The natural gas and petroleum refining markets use our products to measure and control the quality of their finished products and to verify the environmental safety of their operations. Petroleum refiners use our measurement solutions to analyze crude oil composition, perform raw material analysis, verify and improve refining processes 9 and ensure the overall quality of gasoline, fuels, lubricants and other products. Solutions based on gas chromotography, liquid chromotography and mass spectrometry products are also used in the development, manufacturing and quality control of fine chemicals. Our gas chromatographs are also used to monitor consistent quality in the delivery of natural gas. 

The Environmental Market. 

Our gas chromatography, liquid chromatography and mass spectrometry solutions are used by the environmental market for applications such as laboratory and field analysis of chemical pollutants in air, water, soil and solid waste. Environmental industry customers include all levels of government, the industrial and manufacturing sectors, engineering and consulting companies, commercial testing laboratories and colleges and universities. 

The Forensics and Homeland Security Market. 

Our liquid chromatography, gas chromatography, mass spectrometry and microfluidics solutions are used by health and forensics laboratories in the U.S. and abroad, particularly in the analysis of evidence associated with crime or with the detection and identification of biological and chemical warfare agents. This instrumentation is either used in static or mobile laboratories. Customers include local, state, federal, and international law enforcement agencies and health laboratories. 

The Bioagriculture and Food Safety Market. 

Food safety industries apply the same general technologies for chemical analysis as the pharmaceutical and environmental markets, including gas and liquid chromatography and mass spectrometry. For example, our mass spectrometer portfolio, including recently introduced liquid chromatography mass spectrometers, are used to analyze residual pesticides in food. Additionally, bioagriculture industries seek to improve crops and foods by conducting research on these organisms, as well as testing for genetically modified content, using microarray and microfluidics solutions. 

Bio-Analytical Measurement Products A key factor in all of our bio-analytical measurement target markets is the need for new products that increase customer productivity and provide high quality data that enable decision-making by our customers. 

Microarray Products Since announcing the launch of our DNA microarray program for the life sciences in December 1999, we have become a leading supplier of microarray solutions which we sell primarily to pharmaceutical companies and biotechnology companies in our for-profit markets, as well as academic and government funded organizations in our not-for-profit markets. Using our refined inkjet manufacturing process, we make highly sensitive 60-mer oligonucleotide, or oligo, microarrays. This unique inkjet process is highly flexible and accurate, enabling the faster manufacture of high quality custom microarrays. In 2006, we expanded our line of microarrays to offer a new line of high-density arrays providing enhanced genomics solutions for a variety of applications. 

Microfluidics Products The Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer is the first commercial microfluidics product for the analysis of a wide range of biological molecules, including DNA, RNA, proteins and cells. The bioanalyzer chips allow sample quality assessment to be done in a fraction of the usual time using fewer samples and reagents than traditional gel electrophoresis. We also provide related software, which enables the bioanalyzer to be used for the development and manufacture of protein-based therapeutics. The bioanalyzer is commonly used in genomics laboratories and has enabled the standardization of RNA quality measurement. 

10 Gas Chromatography Products Agilent is the world's leading provider of gas chromatographs, both laboratory and portable models. A gas chromatograph ("GC") is used to separate any gas, liquid or solid that can be vaporized and then detect the molecules present to determine their identity and quantity. We continue to expand the application space for our GCs with the development of new separation columns and product enhancements. Over the last three years, Agilent has introduced updated and advanced models of all of its major gas chromatography platforms. 

Liquid Chromatography Products A liquid chromatograph ("LC") or a high performance liquid chromatograph ("HPLC") is used to separate molecules of a liquid mixture to determine the quantity and identity of the molecules present. Used when sample vaporization is not an option, LC also separates and detects compounds to determine molecular identity and quantity. Our LC instruments are modular in construction and can be configured to form instruments that perform specific analyses. Agilent's HPLC system, the Agilent 1100 Series, has sold over 60,000 systems since its introduction, and this year was replaced by its successor, the 1200 Series LC. The 1200 Series is an advanced version which enables true "fast chromatography" through both pressure and temperature control. As a leader in liquid chromatography, we continue to expand our application space with new HPLC columns and ongoing product enhancements. Our latest innovation, HPLC-Chip, is fully commercialized and creating demand for nano LC solutions across many markets. 

Mass Spectrometry Products A mass spectrometer ("MS") identifies and quantifies chemicals based on a chemical's molecular mass and on characteristic patterns of fragment masses that result when a molecule is broken apart. Mass spectrometry is an important tool in analyzing proteins and other biological entities that undergo transformations because it enables the understanding and characterization of their many different states. MS systems are typically used in combination with gas or liquid chromatographs. In the past three years, Agilent significantly expanded its mass spectrometry portfolio with a focus on reliability, sensitivity and ease of use. This year, we introduced two new LC/MS platforms, the Agilent 6410 Triple Quadrapole MS and the 6510 Quadrapole-Time of Flight MS. These new platforms serve new and growing markets for Agilent. 

Software and Informatics Products We provide software for instrument control, data acquisition, data analysis, laboratory content and business process management, and informatics. Our software facilitates the regulatory-compliant use of instruments in pharmaceutical quality assurance/quality control environments. In 2005, we completed the acquisitions of Scientific Software, Inc. and Silicon Genetics, Inc., expanding our portfolio of chromatography data systems and providing an entry into bioinformatics. The integration of these companies into Agilent has expanded our portfolio and market opportunities. 

Consumables and Services We also offer a broad range of consumable products, which support our LC, GC and MS technology platforms. These consumable products include chemical standards, instrument replacement parts, brand-specific chromatography columns and consumable supplies to meet our customers' analysis needs. All of our products, which include generic and proprietary supplies, are designed to work together. 

11 We offer a wide range of startup, operational, educational and compliance support services for our measurement and data handling systems. Our support services include maintenance, troubleshooting, repair and training for all of our chemical and bioinstrumentation analysis hardware and software products. Special service bundles have also been designed to meet the specific application needs of various industries. 

Bio-Analytical Measurement Customers We have roughly 21,000 customers, and as of the end of fiscal 2006, no single customer represented greater than 10 percent of the net revenue of the business. The bio-analytical measurement business is susceptible to seasonality in its orders and revenues primarily based on U.S. government and large pharmaceutical company budgets. The result is that our first and fourth fiscal quarters tend to deliver the strongest profits for this group. However, general economic trends, new product introductions and competition might overshadow this trend in any given year. 

Bio-Analytical Measurement Sales, Marketing and Support Our sales and support delivery channels are aligned by key markets. We market products to our customers through direct sales, electronic commerce, resellers, manufacturers' representatives and distributors. Additionally, we are optimizing our worldwide distribution capabilities to address high-growth opportunities such as the environmental, food safety and pharmaceutical markets in the Asia-Pacific region. 

We use direct sales to market our solutions to all of our pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical accounts, large- and medium-sized chemical customers and environmental accounts. Sales agents supplement direct sales by providing broader geographic coverage and coverage of smaller accounts. Our active reseller program augments our ability to provide more complete solutions to our customers. We sell our consumable products through distributors, telesales and electronic commerce. 

We deliver our support services to customers in a variety of ways, including on-site assistance with repair or exchange of returned products, telephone support and self-diagnostic services provided over the Internet. We also offer special industry-focused service bundles that are designed to meet the specific needs of hydrocarbon processing, environmental, pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical customers to keep instruments fully operational and compliant with the respective industry requirements. Our products typically come with standard warranties, and extended warranties are available for additional cost. 

Bio-Analytical Measurement Manufacturing Our manufacturing supports our diverse product range and customer-centric focus. We assemble highly configurable products to individual customer orders and make standard products to stock. We employ advanced manufacturing techniques and supply chain management systems to reduce costs and manufacturing cycle times. We selectively use third parties to provide manufacturing capabilities outside our core competencies, such as the manufacture of printed circuit assemblies and the delivery of shipment logistics. We have manufacturing facilities in California and Delaware in the U.S., China, Germany and Japan. We utilize just-in-time manufacturing and so typically do not maintain a high level of inventory. 

Bio-Analytical Measurement Competition The markets for analytical instruments in which we compete are characterized by evolving industry standards and intense competition. Our principal competitors in the life sciences arena include: Affymetrix, Inc., Applied Biosystems Inc., GE Healthcare, Invitrogen Corp., Thermo Electron 12 Corp. and Waters Corp. Our principal competitors in the chemical analysis arena include: Applied Biosystems Inc., Perkin Elmer Corp., Shimadzu Corporation, Thermo Electron Corp. and Varian, Inc. Agilent competes on the basis of price, product performance, reliability, support quality, applications expertise and global channel coverage. 

Bio-Analytical Measurement Government Regulation The analysis products and related consumables marketed by our chemical analysis business are subject to regulation in the U.S. by the Environmental Protection Agency ("EPA") under the Toxic Substances Control Act and by government agencies in other countries under similar laws. The Toxic Substances Control Act regulations govern, among other things, the testing, manufacture, processing and distribution of chemicals, the testing of regulated chemicals for their effects on human health and safety and import and export of chemicals. The Toxic Substances Control Act prohibits persons from manufacturing any chemical in the U.S. that has not been reviewed by EPA for its effect on health and safety, and placed on an EPA inventory of chemical substances. Therefore, we must continually adapt our chemical analysis products to changing regulations. If we fail to comply with the notification, record-keeping and other requirements in the manufacture or distribution of our products, the EPA can obtain an order from a court that would prohibit the further distribution or marketing of a product that does not comply or we could face fines, civil penalties or criminal prosecution. 

Agilent Technologies Laboratories Agilent Labs is our central research organization based in Santa Clara, California, with satellite offices in Beijing, China; Everett, Washington; Leuven, Belgium; and South Queensferry, Scotland. Agilent Labs engages primarily in two types of research: 1) applied research that leads to technology that can be transferred to our existing businesses in communications, electronics, life sciences and chemical analysis, and 2) research that creates new businesses that are outside of our current markets but within our fields of interest. Agilent Labs also provides technology integration across our company. 

Agilent Labs employs approximately 200 people. Agilent Labs' technical staff have advanced degrees that cover a wide range of scientific fields, such as biology, bioinformatics, chemistry, computer science, distributed measurement, electrical engineering, image processing, materials science, mathematics, measurement software, optics, physics, physiology, semiconductor device design and signal processing. 

General Infrastructure Organization We provide support to our businesses through our general infrastructure and shared services organization. This support includes services in the areas of finance, legal, workplace services, human resources and information technology. These organizations are generally headquartered in Santa Clara, California, with services provided worldwide. As of the end of October 2006, our general infrastructure and shared services organizations employed approximately 2,750 people, which includes 200 Agilent Labs employees. 

13 The following discussions of Research and Development, Backlog, Intellectual Property, Materials, Environmental, International Operations and Acquisition and Disposal of Material Assets include information common to each of our businesses. 

Research and Development Research and development ("R&D") expenditures were $655 million in 2006, $650 million in 2005 and $599 million in 2004, the vast majority of which was company-sponsored. We anticipate that we will continue to have significant R&D expenditures in order to maintain our competitive position with a continuing flow of innovative, high-quality products and services. 

Backlog At October 31, 2006, our unfilled orders for the electronic measurement business amounted to approximately $700 million, as compared to approximately $670 million at October 31, 2005. At October 31, 2006, our unfilled orders for the bio-analytical measurement business were approximately $260 million, as compared to approximately $180 million at October 31, 2005. We expect that a large majority of the unfilled orders for both businesses will be delivered to customers within nine months. On average, our unfilled orders represent approximately two months' worth of revenues. In light of this experience, backlog on any particular date, while indicative of short-term revenue performance, is not necessarily a reliable indicator of medium or long-term revenue performance. 

Intellectual Property Our general policy has been to seek patent and other intellectual property protection for those inventions and improvements likely to be incorporated into our products and services or to give us a competitive advantage. While we believe that our licenses, patents and applications have value, in general no single patent or license is in itself material. In addition, there can be no assurance that any of our proprietary rights will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, or that our rights will provide significant competitive advantages. 

Materials Our manufacturing operations employ a wide variety of semiconductors, electromechanical components and assemblies and raw materials such as plastic resins and sheet metal. Both our electronic and bio-analytical measurement businesses purchase materials from thousands of suppliers on a global basis. No single supplier is material, although some of the parts that require custom design work are not readily available from alternate suppliers due to their unique design or the length of time necessary for design work. Our long-term relationships with suppliers allow us to proactively manage technology road maps and product discontinuance plans and monitor their financial health. Even so, some suppliers may still extend their lead times, limit supplies, increase prices or cease to produce necessary parts for our products. If these are unique components, we may not be able to find a substitute quickly or at all. To address the potential disruption in our supply chain, we use a number of techniques, including qualifying multiple sources of supply, redesign of products for alternative components. In addition, while we generally attempt to keep our inventory at minimal levels, we do purchase of incremental inventory for supply buffer as circumstances warrant to protect the supply chain. 

Environmental Our R&D, manufacturing and distribution operations involve the use of hazardous substances and are regulated under international, federal, state and local laws governing health and safety and the environment. We apply strict standards for protection of the environment and worker health and safety to sites inside and outside the U.S., even if not subject to regulation imposed by foreign 14 governments. We believe that our properties and operations at our facilities comply in all material respects with applicable environmental laws and worker health and safety laws. However, the risk of environmental liabilities cannot be completely eliminated and there can be no assurance that the application of environmental and health and safety laws to Agilent will not require us to incur significant expenditures. We are also regulated under a number of international, federal, state and local laws regarding recycling, product packaging and product content requirements. These laws are gradually becoming more stringent and may in the future cause us to incur significant expenditures. 

Some of our operations are located on properties that are known to have subsurface contamination undergoing remediation by HP. As part of our spin-off from HP in 1999, HP has agreed to retain the liability for the contamination, perform the required remediation and indemnify us with respect to claims arising out of the contamination. The determination of the existence and cost of any additional contamination caused by us could involve costly and time-consuming negotiations and litigation. While we expect that HP will meet its remediation and indemnification obligations in this regard, there can be no guarantee that it will do so. Under our agreement with HP, HP will have access to these properties to perform the remediation. HP has agreed to minimize interference with on-site operations at those properties during the course of the remediation, but there can be no guarantee that our operations will not be interrupted or that we will not be required to incur unreimbursed costs associated with the remediation. Remediation could also harm on-site operations and the future use and value of the properties. 

In addition, some of these properties are undergoing remediation by HP under an order of an agency of the state in which the property is located. Although HP has agreed to indemnify us with respect to that subsurface contamination, it is possible that one or more of the governmental agencies will require us to be named on any of these orders. The naming of Agilent will not affect HP's obligation to indemnify us with regard to these matters. 

We are liable and are indemnifying HP for any contamination found at all facilities transferred to us by HP excluding the properties undergoing remediation. In addition, we are indemnifying HP for any liability associated with past non-compliance with environmental laws regulating ongoing operations at all properties transferred to us by HP, as well as at sold or discontinued businesses that are related to our businesses. While we are not aware of any material liabilities associated with such indemnified matters, there is no guarantee that such contamination or regulatory non-compliance does not exist, and will not expose us to material liability in the future. 

We are being indemnified by HP with respect to all environmental liabilities for which HP accrued a reserve, and we are not aware of any material environmental liabilities being assumed by us which are not subject to the indemnity. 

International Operations Our net revenue originating outside the U.S., as a percentage of our total net revenue, was approximately 66 percent in fiscal 2006, 64 percent in fiscal 2005 and 65 percent in fiscal 2004, the majority of which was from customers other than foreign governments. Approximately 13 percent of our annual revenues in each of the last three years was derived from Japan. Revenues from external customers are generally attributed to countries based upon the location of the Agilent sales representative. 

Long-lived assets located outside of the U.S., as a percentage of our total long-lived assets, was approximately 55 percent in fiscal year 2006, 50 percent in fiscal year 2005 and 54 percent in fiscal year 2004. Approximately 19, 17 and 16 percent of our long-lived assets were located in Japan in fiscal years 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. 

15 Most of our sales in international markets are made by foreign sales subsidiaries. In countries with low sales volumes, sales are made through various representatives and distributors. However, we also sell into international markets directly from the U.S. 

Our international business is subject to risks customarily encountered in foreign operations, including interruption to transportation flows for delivery of parts to us and finished goods to our customers, changes in a specific country's or region's political or economic conditions, trade protection measures, import or export licensing requirements, consequences from changes in tax laws and regulatory requirements, difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations, differing labor regulations, differing protection of intellectual property and geopolitical turmoil, including terrorism and war. We are also exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk inherent in our sales commitments, anticipated sales and expenses, and assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the local functional currency, and may also become subject to interest rate risk inherent in any debt we incur, or investment and finance receivable portfolios we hold. The U.S. and international community's response to recent terrorist activities could exacerbate these risks. For example, there may be an increased risk of political unrest in regions where we have significant manufacturing operations such as Southeast Asia. However, we believe that our international diversification provides stability to our worldwide operations and reduces the impact on us of adverse economic changes in any single country. Financial information about our international operations is contained in Note 23, "Segment Information", to our consolidated financial statements. 

Acquisition and Disposal of Material Assets On November 28, 2005, we completed the sale of our stake in Lumileds Lighting International, B.V. ("Lumileds") to Philips pursuant to a Share Purchase Agreement (the "Share Purchase Agreement") dated as of August 12, 2005 among Agilent, Agilent LED International, Philips Lumileds Holding B.V. and Philips. Under the terms of the Share Purchase Agreement, Agilent received $949 million in cash proceeds, as well as approximately $51 million in repayment of outstanding advances to Lumileds and interest due to Agilent. 

In December 2005, we completed the sale of substantially all the assets of our semiconductor products business to Avago pursuant to an Asset Purchase Agreement dated as of August 14, 2005 and amended November 30, 2005 (the "Asset Purchase Agreement"). Under the terms of the Asset Purchase Agreement, Agilent received approximately $2.6 billion in cash proceeds. 

On October 31, 2006, we distributed Agilent's equity interest in Verigy by means of a dividend to our stockholders. Prior to the distribution, on June 1, 2006, Agilent transferred substantially all of the assets and liabilities of its semiconductor test solutions business to Verigy, then a wholly owned subsidiary of Agilent. In June and July 2006, Verigy sold approximately 8.7 million of its ordinary shares, or approximately 15 percent of its outstanding shares, in an initial public offering. On October 31, 2006, the aggregate market value of the Verigy shares which were distributed was $840 million. 

Executive Officers of the Registrant The names of our current executive officers and their ages, titles and biographies appear below: Patrick J. Byrne , 46, has served as our Senior Vice President and President of the Electronic Measurement Group since February 2005. Prior to assuming this position, Mr. Byrne served as Vice President and General Manager for the Electronic Products and Solutions Group's Wireless Business Unit from September 2001 to February 2005. Mr. Byrne served as Vice President for the Electronic Products and Solutions Group's Product Generation Units from 1999 to 2001. Mr. Byrne held a number of management positions at Hewlett-Packard Company and Agilent Technologies, Inc. 

16 Adrian T. Dillon , 52, has served as our Executive Vice President, Finance and Administration, Chief Financial Officer since March 2005. Mr. Dillon served as our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer from December 2001 to March 2005. Prior to joining Agilent, Mr. Dillon served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial and Planning Officer of Eaton Corporation from April 1997 to December 2001. Mr. Dillon held various management positions at Eaton Corporation from 1979 to 1997. Mr. Dillon is a member of the Board of Directors of Williams-Sonoma, Inc., where he is Chairman of the Audit and Finance Committee, and is Chairman of the Board of Directors of Verigy Ltd. 

Jean M. Halloran , 54, has served as our Senior Vice President, Human Resources since August 1999. From 1997 to 1999, Ms. Halloran served as Director of Corporate Education and Development for Hewlett-Packard. Prior to assuming this position, from 1993 to 1997, Ms. Halloran acted as human resources manager for Hewlett-Packard's Measurement Systems Organization. Ms. Halloran joined Hewlett-Packard in 1980 in the Medical Products Group, where she held a variety of positions in human resources, manufacturing and strategic planning. 

D. Craig Nordlund , 57, was named our Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary in May 1999 and serves as an officer or director for a variety of Agilent subsidiaries. He is also a director of the Addison Avenue Federal Credit Union. Mr. Nordlund served as Associate General Counsel and Secretary of Hewlett-Packard Company from 1987 to 1999. 

William P. Sullivan , 57, has served as Agilent's President, Chief Executive Officer and a Director since March 2005. Before being named as Agilent's Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Sullivan served as Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer from March 2002 to March 2005. In that capacity, he shared the responsibilities of the president's office with Agilent's former President and Chief Executive Officer, Edward W. Barnholt. Mr. Sullivan also had overall responsibility for Agilent's Electronic Products and Solutions Group, the company's largest business group. Prior to assuming that position, Mr. Sullivan served as our Senior Vice President, Semiconductor Products Group, from August 1999 to March 2002. Before that, Mr. Sullivan held various management positions at Hewlett-Packard Company. Mr. Sullivan serves on the Board of the Children's Discovery Museum in San Jose, California, as well as on the Board of Directors of URS Corporation. 

Christopher van Ingen , 60, has served as Senior Vice President of Agilent Technologies, Inc. and President of the Life Sciences and Chemical Analysis Group since May 2001. Prior to assuming this position, Mr. van Ingen held a number of positions at Hewlett-Packard Company, including Chemical Analysis Group Sales and Marketing Manager from 1996 to April 2001, the Americas Marketing Center Manager from 1989 to 1996, Product Marketing Manager at Little Falls Division from 1986 to 1989, and Sales Support Manager at Little Falls Division from 1984 to 1986. 

Investor Information We are subject to the informational requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act"). Therefore, we file periodic reports, proxy statements and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"). Such reports, proxy statements and other information may be obtained by visiting the Public Reference Room of the SEC at 100 F Street N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549 or by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, the SEC maintains an Internet site (http://www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically. 

You can access financial and other information at our Investor Relations website. The address is www.investor.agilent.com. We make available, free of charge, copies of our Annual Report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those 17 reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after filing such material electronically or otherwise furnishing it to the SEC. 

Our Amended and Restated Corporate Governance Standards, the charters of our Audit and Finance Committee, our Compensation Committee, our Executive Committee and our Nominating/Corporate Governance Committee, as well as our Standards of Business Conduct (including code of ethics provisions that apply to our principal executive officer, principal financial officer, controller and senior financial officers) are available on our website at www.investor.agilent.com under "Corporate Governance". These items are also available in print to any stockholder in the United States and Canada who requests them by calling (877) 942-4200. This information is also available by writing to the Company at the address on the cover of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 
