http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1090872/000119312504216917/d10k.htm
http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1090872/000119312504216917/0001193125-04-216917-index.html
9436000000.0
A
2004-10-31
10-K
A_2004-10-31_10-K.txt


Item 9A. 

Controls and Procedures We carried out an evaluation required by Rule 13a-15(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of Agilent s disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting as of the end of the period covered by this report. 

Disclosure controls and procedures are designed with the objective of ensuring that (i) information required to be disclosed in the company s reports filed under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC s rules and forms and (ii) information is accumulated and communicated to management, including the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosures. Internal controls over financial reporting are procedures designed with the objective of providing reasonable assurance that our (a) transactions are properly authorized, (b) assets are safeguarded against unauthorized or improper use and (c) transactions are properly recorded and reported; all to permit the preparation of our financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles. 

The evaluation of Agilent s disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting included a review of our objectives and processes, implementation by the company and the effect on the information generated for use in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In the course of this evaluation and in accordance with Section 302 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002 (but not in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002), we sought to identify any significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our controls, to determine whether we had identified any acts of fraud involving personnel who have a significant role in our internal controls over financial reporting, and to confirm that any necessary corrective action, including process improvements, were being undertaken. This type of evaluation will be done quarterly so that the conclusions concerning the effectiveness of these controls can be reported in our periodic reports filed with the SEC. Our internal control over financial reporting are also evaluated on an ongoing basis by Agilent s internal auditors and by other personnel in Agilent s finance organization. The 69 overall goals of these evaluation activities are to monitor our disclosure and internal controls over financial reporting and to make modifications as necessary. We intend to maintain these controls as processes that may be appropriately modified as circumstances warrant. 

Based on their evaluation, Agilent s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures are effective in timely alerting them to material information relating to the company (including our consolidated subsidiaries) required to be included in our periodic reports filed with the SEC as of the end of the period covered by this report. There were no changes in our internal control over financial reporting that occurred during Agilent s last fiscal quarter that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting. However, a control system, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. Management necessarily applied its judgment in assessing the benefits of controls relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within the company have been detected. The design of any system of controls is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions, regardless of how remote. Because of the inherent limitations in a control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and may not be detected. 

Items 308(a) and (b) of Regulations S-K and S-B will require management to include in their annual reports a report of management on the company s internal controls over financial reporting, and to evaluate, as of the end of each fiscal period, any change in the company s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the period that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the company s internal control over financial reporting. On February 24, 2004, the Securities and Exchange Commission issued a release extending the deadline for certain issuers to comply with the management report on internal control over financial reporting requirement. Accordingly, Agilent will begin reporting this information in fiscal 2005, its first fiscal year ending after November 15, 2004. In addition, the release extended, until the first fiscal year ending after November 15, 2004, compliance dates for amendments to certain representations that must be included in the certifications required by Exchange Act Rules 13a-14 and 15d-14 and Investment Company Act of 1940 Rule 30a-2, regarding the company s internal control over financial reporting. 
