http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/8868/000095010305000376/avon_10k.htm
22200000000.0
AVP
2010-02-25
10-K
AVP_2010-02-25_10-K.txt

10-K 1 avon_10k.htm UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D.C. 20549 FORM 10-K x Annual Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2004 OR o Transition Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 For the transition period from to Commission file number 1-4881 AVON PRODUCTS, INC .
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) New York 13-0544597 (State or other jurisdiction of incorporation     or organization) (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.) 1345 Avenue of the Americas, New York, N.Y. 10105-0196 (Address of principal executive offices) (212) 282-5000 (Registrants telephone number, including area code) Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: Title of each class Name of each exchange on  which registered Common stock (par value $.25) New York Stock Exchange Preferred Share Purchase Rights New York Stock Exchange Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the  registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes x No o Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.
o .
Indicate by checkmark whether the Registrant is an accelerated filer (as defined by Rule 12b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934). Yes x No o The aggregate market value of Common Stock (par value $.25) held by non-affiliates at June 30, 2004, (the last business day of our most recently completed second quarter) was $22.2 billion.
The number of shares of Common Stock (par value $.25) outstanding at January 31, 2005, was 471,522,517.
Documents Incorporated by Reference Parts I and II Portions of the 2004 Annual Report to Shareholders, by reference to Exhibit 13 to this 2004 Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Part III Portions of the Proxy Statement for the 2005 Annual Meeting of Shareholders.
Table of Contents Part I Item Page Item 1 Business 1 Item 2 Properties 6 Item 3 Legal Proceedings 6 Item 4 Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders 8 Part II Item 5 Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 8 Item 6 Selected Financial Data 9 Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 9 Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 9 Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 9 Item 9 Changes In and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 9 Item 9A Controls and Procedures 9 Part III Item 10 Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant 10 Item 11 Executive Compensation 12 Item 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 12 Item 13 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions 13 Item 14 Principal Accountant Fees and Services 13 Part IV Item 15 Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedule 14 15 (a) 1 Consolidated Financial Statements 14 15 (a) 2 Financial Statement Schedule 14 15 (a) 3 Index to Exhibits 15 Signatures 19 CAUTIONARY STATEMENT FOR PURPOSES OF THE SAFE HARBOR STATEMENT UNDER THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995 Statements in this report that are not historical facts or information are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements are based on managements reasonable current assumptions and expectations. Such forward-looking statements involve risks, uncertainties and other factors, which may cause the actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievement of Avon Products, Inc. (Avon or the Company) to be materially different from any future results expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements, and there can be no assurance that actual results will not differ materially from managements expectations. Such factors include, among others, the following: general economic and business conditions in the Companys markets, including social, economic and political uncertainties in Latin America, Asia Pacific and Central and Eastern Europe; the Companys ability to implement its business, cash management and tax strategies and its Business Transformation initiatives; the Companys ability to achieve anticipated cost savings and its profitability and growth targets, particularly in its largest markets; the Companys ability to implement appropriate product mix and pricing strategies; the Companys ability to replace lost sales attributable to the repositioning of the U.S. Beyond Beauty business; the impact of substantial currency fluctuations on the results of the Companys foreign operations and the cost of sourcing foreign products and the success of the Companys foreign currency hedging and risk management strategies; the Companys ability to implement its Sales Leadership program globally and to increase Representative productivity; the Companys ability to implement its enterprise resource planning project; the impact of possible pension funding obligations and increased pension expense on the Companys cash flow and results of operations; the impact of stock option expense pursuant to Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123(R); the effect of legal, regulatory and tax proceedings, as well as restrictions imposed on the Company, its operations or its Representatives by foreign governments; the Companys ability to successfully identify new business opportunities; the Companys access to financing; and the Companys ability to attract and retain key executives. The Company undertakes no obligation to update any such forward-looking statements.
PART I Dollars in Millions ITEM 1. BUSINESS General Avon commenced operations in 1886 and was incorporated in the State of New York on January 27, 1916. Avon is a global manufacturer and marketer of beauty and related products. Avons products fall into three product categories: Beauty, which consists of cosmetics, fragrances, skin care and toiletries (CFT); Beauty Plus, which consists of fashion jewelry, watches, apparel and accessories; and Beyond Beauty, which consists of home products, gift and  decorative products, candles and toys. Sales from Health and Wellness products and mark.
, described below, are included among these three categories based on product  type.
In 2003, Avon launched in the U.S. a new global cosmetics   brand, focusing on the market for young women. The brand name is mark.
and the product line    is targeted to young women in the 16 to 24 age group, with an objective of enhancing Avons share   of the worldwide youth market.
Mark.
is sold both through the   Companys core group of Representatives and a separate mark.
sales force. The Company intends   to introduce mark.
into additional markets over the next several years.
Avon's   business primarily is conducted worldwide primarily in one channel, direct     selling. The Companys   reportable segments are based on geographic operations in four regions: North     America, Latin America, Europe and Asia Pacific. Financial information relating     to the reportable segments is incorporated by reference to the analysis of     net sales and operating profit by geographic area on pages 11 through 18,   and to Note 11, Segment Information, on pages 54 through 56, of Exhibit 13     to this 2004 Annual Report on Form 10-K, and on pages 35 through 41, and     to Note 11, Segment Information, on pages 76 through 78 of Avons 2004 Annual     Report to Shareholders.
1 Distribution Avon presently has sales operations in 60 countries or territories, including the United States, and distributes its products in 62 more. Sales are made to the ultimate customer principally through a combination of direct  selling and marketing by approximately 4.9 million active independent Avon Representatives, approximately 483,000 of whom are in the United States. Representatives are independent contractors or independent dealers, who are not employees of Avon.  Representatives generally purchase products at a discount from the brochure price directly from Avon and sell them to their customers. The Representatives are typically the customers of Avon and Avon generally has no arrangement with any end user of  its product beyond the Representative. Generally, Representatives are invoiced for their order and are responsible for payment to Avon, regardless of whether or not the Representative sells the products to an end user. No single Representative or  end user accounts for more than 10% of Avon's net sales.
A Representative contacts customers,   selling primarily through brochures which highlight new products and specially-priced items for each   sales campaign. Sales campaigns are generally for two-week duration in the United  States and two-to-four   week duration for most markets outside the United States. Product samples, demonstration products and   selling aids such as make-up color charts are also used. Generally, in the U.S., for example, the Representative   forwards an  order to a designated distribution center on an assigned day using the mail, the Internet,   telephone, or fax. This order is processed and the products are assembled at a distribution center     and delivered to the Representative usually by United Parcel Service or a local delivery service.     The Representative then delivers the merchandise and collects payment from the customer for his or     her own account. A Representative receives a refund of the full price the Representative paid for   a product if the Representative chooses to return it.
Avon employs       certain electronic order systems to increase Representative support, which allow a Representative to run her or his business more efficiently as well as the     Company to improve its order-processing accuracy. For example, in the U.S. and certain other countries,     Representatives can utilize the Internet to manage her or his business electronically, including   use of an online marketing tool called youravon.com. The site helps Representatives build their own   Avon business by enabling them to sell online a complete line of Avons products 24 hours a     day, seven days a week, through personalized web pages developed in association with Avon. While   their customers benefit from the speed, convenience and delivery flexibility of online ordering, Avon   e-Representatives are able to promote special products, target specific groups of customers, place   and track orders online, and capitalize on e-mail to share product information, selling tips and marketing   incentives. Self-paced online training also is available in certain markets, as well as up-to-the-minute   news about Avon. Globally, Avon has Internet sites in 36 markets. These are mainly consumer information   sites, but 34 of these markets have piloted business-to-business sites to support Representatives.
In     the United States, Avon also markets its products through a consumer website, avon.com. This provides     a purchasing opportunity to consumers who choose not to purchase through a Representative. Avon also     sells products at the Avon Salon and Spa, a spa, salon and retail store located in New York City.
In       some markets, Avon uses decentralized branches, satellite stores and independent retail operations       to serve Representatives and customers. Representatives come to a branch to place and pick up product       orders for their customers. The branches also create visibility for Avon with consumers and help       reinforce the Companys beauty image. In certain markets, Representatives         can manage Avon beauty boutiques, beauty counters in department stores, licensed Avon beauty centers         and other retail-oriented opportunities to build their careers and bring Avon to new customers       in complementary ways to direct selling.
The recruiting and training of     Representatives are the primary responsibilities of District Sales Managers and Leadership Representatives.     In most markets, District Sales Managers are employees of Avon and are paid a salary and a sales incentive     based primarily on the increase over the prior year's sales of Avon products by Representatives in     their district, while in other markets, those responsibilities are handled by independent contractors.     Personal contacts, including recommendations from current Representatives (including the Sales Leadership     program), and local advertising constitute the primary means of obtaining new Representatives. The     Sales Leadership program is a multi-level compensation program which gives Representatives the opportunity     to obtain earnings from commissions based on sales made by Representatives they have recruited and     trained, as well as from their own resales of Avon products. This program limits the number of levels     on which commissions can be earned to three and continues to focus on individual product sales by Leadership     Representatives. Development of the Sales 2 Leadership program throughout the world is part of Avons long-term growth strategy. Because of the high rate of turnover among Representatives, a characteristic of the direct-selling method, recruitment and training of new Representatives are continually necessary.
From time to time, local governments and others question the legal status of Representatives or impose burdens inconsistent with their status as independent contractors, often in regard to possible coverage under social benefit laws that would require Avon (and in most instances, the Representatives) to make regular contributions to government social benefit funds and occasionally questioning their independent status. Although Avon has generally been able to address these questions in a satisfactory manner, the matter has not been fully resolved in all countries. If there should be a final determination adverse to Avon in a country, the cost for future, and possibly past, contributions could be so substantial in the context of the volume and profitability of the business of Avon in that country that the Company would consider discontinuing operations in that country.
Promotion and Marketing Sales promotion and sales development activities are directed at assisting Representatives, through sales aids such as brochures, product samples and demonstration products. In order to support the efforts of Representatives to reach new customers, specially designed sales aids, promotional pieces, customer flyers, television and print advertising are used. In addition, Avon seeks to motivate its Representatives through the use of special incentive programs that reward superior sales performance. Periodic sales meetings with Representatives are conducted by the District Sales Managers. The meetings are designed to keep Representatives abreast of product line changes, explain sales techniques and provide recognition for sales performance.
A   number of merchandising techniques are used, including the introduction of new products, the use of combination   offers, the use of trial sizes and samples, and the promotion of products packaged as gift items. In   general for each sales campaign, a distinctive brochure is published, in which new products are introduced   and selected items are offered at special prices or are given particular prominence in the brochure.
Avon has furthered its image through increased advertising,   introduction of the Health and Wellness business, creation of a corporate slogan the company for   women, and the launching   of mark.
. Avon has also increased its investments in upgrading the quality and size of its brochure   in many markets to further strengthen the Companys beauty image   worldwide.
From time to time, various regulations or laws have been proposed or adopted that would, in general, restrict the frequency, duration or volume of sales resulting from new product introductions, special prices or other special price offers. Avon's pricing flexibility and broad product lines are expected to be able to mitigate the effect of these regulations.
Competitive Conditions The cosmetic, fragrance and toiletries (CFT), gift and decorative, apparel and fashion jewelry industries are highly competitive. Avons principal competitors in the CFT industry are large and well-known cosmetics and  fragrances companies that manufacture and sell broad product lines through various types of retail establishments. There are many other companies that compete in particular CFT products or product lines sold through retail establishments.
Avon   has many competitors in the gift and decorative products and apparel industries in the United States,   including retail establishments, principally department stores, gift shops and specialty retailers,   and direct-mail companies specializing in these products.
Avons       principal competition in the fashion jewelry industry consists of a few large companies and many   small companies that sell fashion jewelry through retail establishments.
The         number of competitors and degree of competition that Avon faces in its international CFT and     fashion jewelry markets varies widely from country to country.
There       are a number of direct-selling companies that sell product lines similar to Avon's, some of which       also have worldwide operations and compete with Avon.
3 Avon believes that the personalized customer service offered by its Representatives; the high quality, attractive designs and reasonable prices of its products; the high level of new and innovative products; its easily recognized brand name and its guarantee of satisfaction are significant factors in establishing and maintaining its competitive position.
International Operations Avon's international operations are conducted primarily through subsidiaries in 59 countries or territories outside the U.S. and Avon's products are distributed in some 62 other countries.
Avon's international operations are subject to certain risks inherent in carrying on business abroad, including, but not limited to, the risk of adverse currency fluctuations, currency remittance restrictions and unfavorable social, economic and political conditions.
Manufacturing Avon manufactures and packages almost all of its CFT products. Raw materials, consisting chiefly of essential oils, chemicals, containers and packaging components, are purchased from various suppliers. Additionally, Avon  produces the brochures that are used by the Representatives to sell Avon products. The loss of any one supplier would not have a material impact on Avons ability to source raw materials or paper for the brochures. Packages, consisting of  containers and packaging components, are designed by its staff of artists and designers.
The   design and development of new products are affected by the cost and availability of materials such as   glass, plastics and chemicals. Avon believes that it can continue to obtain sufficient raw materials   and supplies to  manufacture and produce its products.
Avon had 14 manufacturing facilities around the world in 2004. See Item 2, Properties, for additional information regarding the location of Avons manufacturing facilities.
Trademarks and Patents Avons business is not materially dependent on the existence of third party patent or other third party intellectual property rights and Avon is not a party to any ongoing material license, franchise or concession. The Company, however, does seek to protect its key proprietary technologies by aggressively pursuing comprehensive patent coverage in major markets. Avon's major trademarks are protected by registration in the United States and many other countries where its products are marketed.
Seasonal Nature of Business Avon's sales and earnings have a marked seasonal pattern characteristic of many companies selling CFT, gift and decorative products, apparel, and fashion jewelry. Holiday sales cause a sales peak in the fourth quarter of the year; however, the sales volume of holiday gift items is by its nature, difficult to forecast. Fourth quarter net sales were approximately 30% of total net sales in both 2004 and 2003, respectively, and fourth quarter operating profit was approximately 35% of total operating profit in both 2004 and 2003.
Research and Product Development Activities New products are essential to growth in the highly competitive cosmetics industry. Avon's research and development departments efforts are significant to developing new products, including formulating effective  beauty treatments relevant to women's needs, and redesigning or reformulating existing products.
Avons   research and development facility is located in Suffern, NY. A team of researchers and technicians apply   the disciplines of science to the practical aspects of bringing products to market around the world.    Relationships with well known dermatologists and other specialists enhance Avon's ability to deliver   new formulas and ingredients to market. Additionally, Avon has satellite research facilities located   in Brazil, China, Japan, Mexico, the  Philippines and Poland.
4 In 2004, Avons most significant product launches included Anew Clinical Deep Crease Concentrate, an at-home alternative to line-relaxing injections, is a targeted treatment that relaxes and fills expression lines; and TodayTomorrowAlways , a beautifully feminine fragrance, and the first in a trilogy of collectible scents. In 2004, Avon Color V was launched globally, anchored by the launch of My Lip Miracle , one lipstick that offers the three benefits of long wear, moisture, color and shine.
The amounts incurred   on research activities relating to the development of new products and the improvement of existing products   were $63.8 in 2004, $57.6 in 2003, and $47.7 in 2002. This research included the activities  of product   research and development and package design and development. Most of these activities were related to   the development of CFT products.
Avon is increasing its investment in research and development by more than $100.0 over the period 2002 through 2005. A majority of the incremental investment is related to the construction of a research and development facility in Suffern, NY to replace the existing facility in that location. Construction of the facility began in 2003 and is expected to continue into 2005. Avon is funding the project with cash flows from operating activities.
Environmental Matters In general, compliance with environmental regulations impacting Avon's global operations has not had, and is not anticipated to have, any material adverse effect upon the capital expenditures, financial position or competitive position of Avon.
Employees At December 31, 2004, Avon employed approximately 47,700 full-time equivalents. Of these, approximately 8,900 were employed in the United States and 38,800 in other countries. The number of employees tends to rise from a low point in January to a high point in November and decreases slightly in December after holiday shipments are completed.
Website Access to Reports Avons annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports, are and have been throughout 2004 available, without charge, on Avons website (www.avoninvestor.com) as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed with or furnished to the SEC. Avon also makes available on its website the charters of its Board Committees, its Corporate Governance Guidelines and its Code of Business Conduct and Ethics. Copies of these SEC reports and other documents are also available, without charge, from Investor Relations, Avon Products, Inc., 1345 Avenue of the Americas, New York, NY 10105-0196 or by sending an email to investor.relations@avon.com or by calling (212) 282-5623. Information on our website does not constitute part of this report. Additionally, the Companys filings with the SEC may be read and copied at the SEC Public Reference Room at 450 Fifth Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling 1-800-SEC-0330. These filings are also available on the SECs website at www.sec.gov free of charge as soon as reasonably practicable after the Company has filed the above referenced reports.
5 ITEM 2. PROPERTIES Avon's principal properties worldwide consist of manufacturing facilities for the production of CFT, distribution centers where offices are located and where finished merchandise is packed and shipped to Representatives in fulfillment of their orders, and one principal research and development facility. The domestic manufacturing facilities are located in Morton Grove, IL and Springdale, OH. The domestic distribution centers are located in Atlanta, GA; Glenview, IL; Newark, DE; and Pasadena, CA. The research and development facility is located in Suffern, NY. Avon also leases office space in two locations in New York City and owns property in Rye, NY, for its executive and administrative offices.
Other principal properties outside the U.S measuring 50,000 square feet     or more include the following: two distribution centers in North America (other than in the United States); three manufacturing facilities, six distribution centers, and four administrative     offices in Europe; four manufacturing facilities, eight distribution       centers and one administrative office in Latin America; and five manufacturing facilities, six distribution centers, and two administrative offices in Asia Pacific region.
28 of the facilities are owned and the remaining 31 properties are leased.
Avon considers all of these properties to be in good repair, adequately meet Avon's needs and operate at reasonable levels of productive capacity.
Avon also has six satellite research and development facilities located in Brazil, China, Japan, Mexico, the Philippines and Poland.
ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS Avon has been a defendant in a class action suit commenced in 1991 on behalf of certain classes of holders of Avon's Preferred Equity-Redemption Cumulative Stock ("PERCS"). Plaintiffs alleged various contract and securities law claims related to the PERCS (which were fully redeemed in 1991) and sought aggregate damages of approximately $145.0, plus interest. A trial of this action took place in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York and concluded in November 2001. In March 2004, the court rendered a decision in favor of Avon and dismissed the Consolidated Amended Class Action Complaint. The plaintiffs appealed the court's decision to the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, and in February 2005 the Court of Appeals affirmed the decision of the District Court. The plaintiffs have not yet indicated whether they plan to appeal the decision of the Court of Appeals. While it is not possible to predict the outcome of litigation, management believes that this action should not have a material adverse effect on the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Avon has   been defending actions commenced in the Supreme Court of the State of New York by Sheldon Solow d/b/a   Solow Building Company (Solow), the landlord of the Companys former headquarters   in New York City. In one action, Plaintiff sought aggregate damages of approximately $80.0, plus interest,   for the Companys alleged failure to restore the leasehold premises at the conclusion of the lease   term in 1997. In May 2004, Avon entered into a  settlement with Solow and paid Solow $6.2 in exchange   for a release of Solows claims. In a separate action that has been pending since 1975, Solow   alleges that Avon misappropriated the name of its former headquarters building and seeks damages based   on a purported value of one dollar per square foot of leased space over the term of the lease. Although   this action remained dormant for over twenty years, discovery in the matter has been revived and trial   is scheduled to begin in May 2005. This action is unaffected by the settlement with Solow. While it   is not possible to predict the outcome of litigation, management believes that there are meritorious   defenses to the claims asserted and that the remaining action should not have a material adverse effect   on the Consolidated Financial Statements. This action is being vigorously contested.
Avon     Products Foundation, Inc. (the Avon Foundation) is a defendant     in an arbitration proceeding brought by Pallotta TeamWorks (Pallotta) in September 2002,     before Judicial Arbitration and  Mediation 6 Services, Inc. Pallotta asserts claims of breach of contract, misappropriation of opportunity, tortious interference with prospective contractual arrangement and unfair competition arising out of the Avon Foundations decision to use another party to conduct breast cancer fundraising events, and seeks unspecified damages and attorneys fees. The arbitrator dismissed Pallottas misappropriation claim in January 2003, its unfair competition claim in  February 2003 and its tortious interference claim in July 2003. A hearing on the remaining claim commenced in July 2003 and the parties have now completed the post-hearing briefing stage. Oral argument before the arbitrator has been scheduled for  March 2005. The Avon Foundation believes that it has meritorious defenses to the claims asserted by Pallotta and has filed a number of counterclaims. The Avon Foundation is a registered 501(c)(3) charity and is a distinct entity from Avon Products,  Inc., which is not a party to these proceedings. While it is not possible to predict the outcome of litigation, management believes that these proceedings should not have a material adverse effect on the Consolidated Financial Statements of the  Company.
Blakemore, et   al. v. Avon Products, Inc., et al. is a purported class action pending in the     Superior Court of the State of California on behalf of Avon Sales Representatives     who since   March 24, 1999, received  products from Avon they did not order, thereafter     returned the unordered products to Avon, and did not receive credit for those     returned products. The complaint seeks unspecified   compensatory and punitive damages, restitution and injunctive  relief for alleged     unjust enrichment and violation of the California Business and Professions     Code. This action was commenced in March 2003. The Company filed demurrers     to the original complaint and three subsequent amended complaints, asserting    that they failed to state a cause of action. The Superior Court sustained     the Companys demurrers    and dismissed plaintiffs causes of action except for the unjust enrichment    claim of one plaintiff, the amount of which is nominal. The court also struck    plaintiffs class allegations. Plaintiffs    filed Petitions for Writ of Mandate with the Court of Appeal of the State    of California seeking to overturn the Superior Courts dismissals in    respect of the complaints. In June 2004, the Court of Appeal issued an    Alternative Writ of Mandate and Order mandating that the Superior Court vacate    its prior rulings or, in the alternative, show cause why such a mandate should    not issue.
Separately, plaintiffs filed with the Superior Court   a motion for reconsideration of the courts decision striking plaintiffs class   allegations in this matter, which decision was unaffected by the action of   the Court of Appeal. The Superior Court chose not to vacate its rulings in   respect of the complaints, so the parties were ordered to prepare briefs to   the Court of Appeal regarding the Superior Courts order granting the   Companys demurrers.   The Superior Court also chose not to change its ruling striking plaintiffs class   allegations and the plaintiffs have appealed that decision to the Court of   Appeal. The parties have fully briefed the Writ of Mandate proceeding and the   appeal of the class allegation issue. Argument before the Court of Appeal regarding   both the Writ of Mandate and the appeal of the class allegation issue is scheduled   to take place in March 2005. The Company believes that this action is a dispute   over purported customer service issues and is an inappropriate subject for   consideration as a class action. While it is not possible to predict the outcome   of litigation, management believes that there are meritorious defenses to the   claims asserted and  that this action should not have a material adverse effect   on the Consolidated Financial Statements. This action is being vigorously contested.
In December   2002, a Brazilian subsidiary of the Company received a series of excise and     income tax assessments from the Brazilian tax authorities asserting that     the establishment in 1995 of separate manufacturing and distribution companies     in that country was done without a valid business purpose. The assessments     assert tax deficiencies during portions of the years 1997 and 1998 of approximately     $86.0 at the exchange rate on the date of this filing, plus penalties and     accruing interest totaling approximately $146.0 at the exchange rate on the     date of this filing. In July  2003, a first-level appellate body rejected     the basis for income tax assessments representing approximately 76% of the     total assessment, or $177.0 (including interest). In March  2004, that     rejection was confirmed in a mandatory second-level appellate review. The     remaining assessments relating to excise taxes (approximately $55.0) were     not affected. In December  2003, an additional assessment was received     in respect of excise taxes for the balance of 1998, totaling approximately     $99.0 at the exchange rate on the date of this filing and asserting a different     theory of liability based on purported market sales data. In January 2005,     an unfavorable first administrative level decision was received with respect     to the appeal of that assessment and a further appeal has been taken. In     December  2004 an additional assessment was received in respect of excise     taxes for the period from January 1999 to December 2001, totaling approximately     $199.0 at the exchange rate on the date of this filing and asserting the     same theory of liability as in the December 2003 assessment. The Company     is appealing that assessment. In the event that  assessments     are upheld in the earlier stages of review, it may be necessary for the Company     to provide security to pursue further appeals, which, depending on the circumstances, may result in a charge to income. It is not possible to make a reasonable estimate     of the amount or range of expense that could result from an unfavorable outcome     in respect of these or any additional assessments that may be issued for     subsequent periods. The structure adopted in 1995 is comparable to that used     by many companies in Brazil, and the Company believes that it is appropriate,     both operationally and legally, and that the assessments are unfounded. This     matter is being vigorously contested and in the opinion of the Companys     outside counsel the likelihood that the assessments ultimately will be upheld     is remote. Management believes that the likelihood that the assessments will     have a material impact on the Consolidated Financial Statements is also remote.
Scheufler v. Estee Lauder, Inc., et al. is a purported class action commenced     in February, 2005 in the Superior Court of California for the County of San Diego. The action names     Avon and other defendants and seeks injunctive relief and restitution for alleged violations of the     California Unfair Competition Law and the California False Advertising Law, and for negligent and     intentional misrepresentation. The purported class includes individuals who have purchased     skin care products from defendants  that have been falsely advertised to have an anti-aging or     youth inducing benefit or effect. While it is not possible to predict the outcome of litigation,     management believes that there are meritorious defenses to the claims asserted and that this action     should not have a material adverse effect on the Consolidated Financial Statements. This action will     be vigorously contested.
7 Various other lawsuits   and claims, arising in the ordinary course of business or related to businesses     previously sold, are pending or threatened against Avon. In the opinion of     Avon's  management, based on its review of the information available at this     time, the total cost of resolving such other contingencies at December 31,     2004, should not have a material adverse effect on the Consolidated Financial     Statements.
ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS No matters were submitted to a vote of security holders during the quarter ended December 31, 2004.
PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES This information is incorporated by reference to "Market Prices per Share of Common Stock by Quarter" on page 26 of Exhibit 13 to this 2004 Annual Report on Form 10-K (page 49 of Avons 2004 Annual Report to Shareholders).
Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities The following table provides information with respect to purchases by Avon of its Common Stock during the fourth quarter of 2004: Total Number of Shares Purchased (1) (2) Average Price Paid per Share (3) Total Number of Shares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Programs (1) Maximum Approximately Dollar Value of Shares that May Yet Be Purchased Under the Program 10/1/04  10/31/04 350,406 $41.54 350,048 290,345 11/1/04  11/30/04 899,300 $38.64 899,300 255,593 12/1/04  12/31/04 754,793 $38.75 754,600 226,352 Total 2,004,499 2,003,948 (1) A portion of the Total Number of Shares Purchased, and all of the Total Number of Shares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Programs, consists of: (i) shares purchased in open-market transactions pursuant to Avons publicly announced share repurchase program, which was approved by Avons Board of Directors in September 2000, under which Avon may buy up to $1.0 billion of its outstanding stock over an approximate five-year period ending by December 2005; and (ii) shares purchased in private transactions from a broker in connection with the hedging of stock-based obligations under Avons Deferred Compensation Plan.
(2) The balance of the Total Number of Shares Purchased consists of shares reacquired by Avon, outside of its publicly announced share repurchase program, through one or more of the following types of transactions or events: (i) shares of restricted stock that Avon reacquired from current and former employees in connection with tax payments or deferrals upon vesting of restricted stock grants under Avons 2000 Stock Incentive Plan; (ii) shares reacquired when employees or members of Avons Board of Directors use Avon stock to pay the exercise price of stock options; and (iii) shares purchased 8 in open-market transactions by the Avon Products, Inc. Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan and Supplemental Life Plan Trust. Avon reacquired a total of 551 shares during the fourth quarter through the types of  transactions and events described above.
(3) The calculation of Average Price Paid per Share excludes any shares of restricted stock that were forfeited and thus reacquired by Avon without any consideration from or  payment by Avon.
ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA The information for the five-year period 2000 through 2004 is incorporated by reference to the "Eleven-Year Review" on pages 66 through 70 of Exhibit 13 to this 2004 Annual Report on Form 10-K (pages 90 through 93 of Avon's 2004 Annual Report to Shareholders).
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS This information is incorporated by reference to "Management's     Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" on     pages 1 through 25 of Exhibit 13 to this 2004 Annual Report on Form 10-K     (pages 25 through 48 of Avon's 2004 Annual Report to Shareholders).
ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK This information is incorporated by reference to Risk     Management Strategies and Market Rate Sensitive Instruments on pages     21 through 23 and Note 7 on pages 42 through 45 of Exhibit 13 to this 2004     Annual Report  on Form 10-K (pages 44 through 46 and Note 7 on pages     64 through 67 of Avon's 2004 Annual Report to Shareholders).
ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA This information is incorporated by reference to     the "Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes" on pages 27 through 63,     together with the report thereon of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, on page 65,     of Exhibit 13 to this  2004 Annual Report on Form 10-K (pages 50 through     87 of Avon's 2004 Annual Report to Shareholders).
ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE Not applicable.
ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures As of the end of the period covered by this report, Avon's prinicpal executive and principal financial officers carried out an evaluation of the effectiveness of the design and operation of Avon's disclosure controls and procedures pursuant to Rule 13a-15 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act"). Based upon their evaluation, the prinicpal executive and principal financial officers concluded that Avon's disclosure controls and procedures were adequate and effective and designed to ensure that material information relating to Avon (including its consolidated subsidiaries) required to be disclosed by Avon in the reports it files under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the required time periods.
Managements Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting Avons       management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal     control over financial reporting, as such term is defined in Rule 13a-15(f)     under the Exchange Act. Internal control over financial reporting is defined     as a process designed by, or under the supervision of, Avons       principal executive and principal financial officers and effected by Avons       board of directors, management and other personnel, to provide reasonable 9 assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and includes those policies and procedures that: pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of Avon; provide reasonable assurance that transactions     are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements     in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and, that     receipts and expenditures of Avon are being made only in accordance with authorization     of management and directors of Avon; and provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of Avons assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods  are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
Under   the supervision and with the participation of Avons   management, including its principal executive and principal financial officers,   Avon assessed as of December 31, 2004, the effectiveness of Avons internal   control over financial reporting. This assessment was based on criteria established   in the framework in Internal Control-Integrated   Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway   Commission. Based on Avons assessment using those criteria, Avons   management concluded that Avons internal   control over financial reporting as of  December 31, 2004 was effective.
Avons assessment of the effectiveness of Avons internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2004 has been audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in their report which is included on page 65 of Exhibit 13 to this 2004 Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting In connection with the evaluation by Avon's principal executive and principal financial officers of changes in internal control over financial reporting that occurred during Avon's last fiscal quarter, no change in Avon's internal control over financial reporting was identified that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, Avon's internal control over financial reporting.
PART III ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT Directors Information regarding directors is incorporated by reference to the "Election of Directors" and "Information Concerning the Board of Directors" sections of Avon's Proxy Statement for the 2005 Annual Meeting of Shareholders.
Executive Officers Executive officers are designated by the Board of Directors at its first meeting following the Annual Meeting of Shareholders. Each executive officer will hold office until the first meeting of the Board of Directors following the next Annual Meeting of Shareholders at which Directors are elected, or until his or her successor is elected, except in the event of death, resignation or removal or the earlier termination of the term of office.
10 Information regarding employment contracts between Avon and named executive officers is incorporated by reference to the "Contracts with Executives" section of Avon's Proxy Statement for the 2005 Annual Meeting of Shareholders.
Listed below are the executive officers of Avon, each of whom (except as noted) has served in various executive and operating capacities with Avon during the past five years: Title Name Age Year Designated Executive Officer Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer         and Director Andrea Jung 46 1997 (1) President and Chief Operating Officer, and Director Susan J. Kropf 56 1997 (2) Executive Vice President and President, Avon         North America Brian C. Connolly 49 2002 (3) Executive Vice President and Chief Financial         Officer Robert J. Corti 55 1988 Executive Vice President and Brand President Elizabeth A. Smith 41 2005 (4) Executive Vice President, International Robert Toth 52 2002 (5) Senior Vice President, Human Resources Lucien Alziari 46 2004 (6) Senior Vice President, Corporate Strategy and         Business Development Gina Boswell 41 2004 (7) Senior Vice President and General Counsel Gilbert L. Klemann, II 54 2001 (8) Vice President and Controller Janice Marolda Klettner 44 1998 (1) Andrea Jung was elected Chairman of the Board of Avon in September 2001. She has been Chief Executive Officer of Avon since November 1999, concurrently holding the position of President until January 2001. Ms. Jung joined Avon in January 1994 as President, Product Marketing and was promoted to Executive Vice President, Global Marketing and New Business in March 1997. From January 1998 to November 1999 she was President and Chief Operating Officer of Avon.
(2) Susan J. Kropf was elected President and Chief Operating Officer, effective January 2001. She had been elected Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer, North America and Global Business Operations effective November 1999. Previously she had been Executive Vice President and President, North America since March 1997 and prior to that she had served as President, Avon U.S. and President, New and Emerging Markets. Ms. Kropf has been with Avon since 1970.
(3) Brian C. Connolly was elected Executive Vice President and President, North America in March 2003. Prior to that, Mr. Connolly had been Senior Vice President and President, North America since 2001, President of Avon U.S. since 2000 and Senior Vice President of Sales and Operations for Avon U.S. since 1999. Previously, Mr. Connolly had been Group Vice President of Sales and Customer Service for Avon U.S. since 1998 and Group Vice President-Sales for Avon U.S. since 1997. Mr. Connolly joined Avon in 1978.
(4) Elizabeth A. Smith joined Avon as Executive Vice President and Brand President in January 2005. Prior to joining Avon, she had been with Kraft Foods, Inc. as Group Vice President and President U.S. Beverages and Grocery  Sectors from January 2004 to November 2004. Before that she had been Group Vice President, Kraft Foods, Inc. and President, U.S. Beverage, Desserts and Cereal from October 2002 to January 2004, and Executive Vice President and General Manager of the  Beverage Division from September 2000 to October 2002. Prior to that, she had been with Kraft Foods, Inc., as Vice President, Beverage and Desserts Division, from February 2000 to September 2000, and Director of Strategy and New Business Development, Beverage and Desserts Division, from February 1999 to February 2000.
(5) Robert Toth was elected Executive Vice President, International, effective February 1, 2004. Prior to that Mr. Toth had been Executive Vice President, Asia Pacific, Europe, Middle East and Africa since March 2002 and had been Senior Vice President, Europe, Middle East and Africa from December 1999 to 2002.
From January 1999 to December 1999, Mr. Toth had been President, Central and Eastern Europe, Middle East and Africa, and, from 1997 to January 1999, he had been President, Central and Eastern Europe. Mr. Toth has been with Avon since 1978.
(6) Lucien Alziari joined Avon as Senior Vice President, Human Resources in September 2004. Prior to joining Avon, he had been Chief Human Resources Officer for PepsiCos Corporate Division from 2003- 11 2004. Before that he had been with Pepsico as Vice President, Staffing       and Executive Development from 2000-2003, Vice President, Corporate Human Resources from 1998-2000,     and Vice President, Human Resources for the Middle East, Pakistan and Africa from 1994-1997.
(7) Gina Boswell joined Avon as Senior Vice President, Corporate Strategy and Business Development in June 2003. Effective February 4, 2005, she was made Senior Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, Avon North America.  Prior to joining Avon, she had been Director, Business Strategy, of Ford Motor Company from 2002 - 2003, with responsibility for the business strategy for Fords global enterprise. Before that, she had been Director, Vehicle Personalization at  Ford from 2001 - 2002 and Vice President, CRM and Consumer eBusiness at Ford from 1999-2001. Prior to Ford, Gina was Vice President, New Business Development at The Estee Lauder Companies, Inc. from 1997 to 1999.
(8) Gilbert L. Klemann, II was elected Senior Vice President and General Counsel of Avon effective January 1, 2001, and was Secretary from June 1, 2001 until January 27, 2005. Prior to joining Avon he had been an Executive Vice President of Fortune Brands, Inc. (formerly American Brands, Inc.) from 1998-1999 with responsibilities that included corporate development, legal and administrative functions. He was the Senior Vice President and General Counsel of American Brands, Inc. during the period 1991-1997 and previously was a partner in the New York law firm of Chadbourne & Parke.
Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance This information is incorporated by reference to the Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance section of Avons Proxy Statement for the 2005 Annual Meeting of Shareholders.
Code of Business Conduct and Ethics Avons Board of Directors has adopted a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics that applies to all members of the Board of Directors and to all of the Companys employees, including its principal executive officer, principal financial officer and principal accounting officer or controller. Avons Code of Business Conduct and Ethics is available, free of charge, on Avons website, www.avoninvestor.com . Avons code of Business Conduct and Ethics is also available, without charge, from Investor Relations, Avon Products, Inc., 1345 Avenue of the Americas, New York, NY  10105-0196 or by sending an email to investor.relations@avon.com or by calling (212) 282-5623. Any amendment to, or waiver from, the provisions of this Code of Business Conduct and Ethics that applies to any of those officers will be posted to the  same location on Avons website.
Audit Committee; Membership; Independence; Audit Committee   Financial Expert This information is incorporated by reference to the Information Concerning the Board of Directors and Audit Committee Report sections of Avons Proxy Statement for the 2005 Annual Meeting of Shareholders.
Material Changes in Nominating Committee Procedures This information is incorporated by reference to the Information Concerning the Board of Directors section of Avons Proxy Statement for the 2005 Annual Meeting of Shareholders.
ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION This information is incorporated by reference to the "Information Concerning the Board of Directors" and "Executive Compensation" sections of Avon's Proxy Statement for the 2005 Annual Meeting of Shareholders.
ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS This information is incorporated by reference to the "Ownership of Shares" section of Avon's Proxy Statement for the 2005 Annual Meeting of Shareholders.
12 ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS This information is incorporated by reference to the Information Concerning the Board of Directors and Contracts with Executives" sections of Avon's Proxy Statement for the 2005 Annual Meeting of   Shareholders.
ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES This information is incorporated by reference to the Ratification of Appointment of Independent Accountants" section of Avon's Proxy Statement for the 2005 Annual Meeting of Shareholders.
13 PART IV ITEM 15. EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE Form 10-K Page Number (a) 1.Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Statements of Income for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2004 27 Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2004 and 2003 28 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2004 29 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Shareholders' Equity for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2004.
31 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 32-63 Managements Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting 64 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 65 (a) 2.Financial Statement Schedule Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on Financial Statement Schedule S-1 Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm S-2 Financial statement schedule for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2004 Schedule II. Valuation and qualifying accounts S-3 Financial statements of the registrant and all other financial statement schedules are omitted because they are not applicable or because the required information is shown in the consolidated financial statements and notes.
14 (a) 3. Index to Exhibits Exhibit Number Description 3.1 Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Avon,         filed with the Secretary of State of the State of New York on May 7, 2004.
3.2 By-laws of Avon, as restated, effective December         2, 1999 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.2 to Avons Annual Report on Form 10-K for the         year ended December 31, 1999).
4.1 Indenture, dated as of August 1, 1997, between         Avon, as Issuer, and The Chase Manhattan Bank, as Trustee, relating to the 6.55% Notes due 2007 (incorporated         by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to Avon's Registration Statement on Form S-4, Registration Statement         No. 333-41299 filed December 1, 1997).
4.2 Rights Agreement, dated as of March 30, 1998         (the Rights Agreement), between Avon and Equiserve Trust Company, N.A., as successor Rights Agent         to First Chicago Trust Company of New York (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4 to Avons         Registration Statement on Form 8-A, filed March 18, 1998).
4.3 Indenture, dated as of May 11, 1998, between         Avon, as Issuer, and The Chase Manhattan Bank, as Trustee, relating to the 6.25% Putable/Callable Notes         due May 1, 2018, Putable/Callable May 1, 2003 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.3 to Avons Annual         Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2001).
4.4 Indenture, dated as of November 9, 1999, between         Avon, as Issuer, and The Chase Manhattan Bank, as Trustee, relating to the 6.90% Notes due 2004,         and the 7.15% Notes due 2009 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to Avons Registration Statement         on Form S-4, Registration Statement No. 333-92333 filed December 8, 1999).
4.5 Indenture, dated as of July 12, 2000, between         Avon, as Issuer, and The Chase Manhattan Bank, as Trustee, relating to the Zero Coupon Convertible Senior         Notes due 2020 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to Avons Registration Statement on Form S-3,         Registration Statement No. 333-45808 filed September 14, 2000).
4.6 $600,000,000 Revolving Credit and Competitive         Advance Facility Agreement, dated as of May 1, 2001, among Avon, Avon Capital Corporation and a group         of banks and other lenders (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4 to Avons Quarterly Report         on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2001).
4.7 Agency Agreement, dated September 20, 2001, between         Avon and HSBC Bank plc, as initial principal paying agent, relating to the JPY 9,000,000,000         1.06 percent Notes due 2006 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4 to Avons Quarterly Report on         Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2001).
4.8 Indenture, dated as of May 13, 2003, between         Avon, as Issuer, and JPMorgan Chase Bank, as Trustee, relating to Avons $125.0 aggregate principal         amount of 4.625% Notes due 2013 and $250.0 aggregate principal amount of 4.20% Notes due 2018 (incorporated         by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to Avons Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June         30, 2003).
10.1 * Avon Products, Inc. 1993 Stock Incentive Plan,         approved by stockholders on May 6, 1993 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to Avon's Quarterly         Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1993 (File No. 1-04881)).
10.2 * Form of Stock Option Agreement to the Avon Products,         Inc. 1993 Stock Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to Avon's Annual Report         on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1993 (File No. 1-04881)).
15 10.3 * First Amendment of the Avon Products, Inc. 1993         Stock Incentive Plan, effective January 1, 1997, approved by stockholders on May 1, 1997 (incorporated         by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Avon's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30,         1997 (File No. 1-04881)).
10.4 * Avon Products, Inc. 1997 Long Term Incentive         Plan, effective as of January 1, 1997, approved by stockholders on May 1, 1997 (incorporated by         reference to Exhibit 10.4 to Avons Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1997 (File         No. 1-04881)).
10.5 * Supplemental Executive Retirement and Life Plan         of Avon Products, Inc., as amended and restated as of July 1, 1998 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit         10.5 to Avons Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1998).
10.6 * First Amendment to the         Restated Supplemental Executive Retirement and Life Plan of Avon Products,         Inc., dated October       26, 2000.
10.7 * Benefit Restoration Pension Plan of Avon Products,         Inc., amended and restated July 1, 1998.
10.8 * Amendment to Avon Products, Inc., Benefit Restoration         Plan, effective as of December 5, 2001 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.7 to         Avons Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2001).
10.9 * Second Amendment to the Benefit         Restoration Plan of Avon Products, Inc., effective December 5, 2000.
10.10 * Third Amendment to the Benefit Restoration         Plan of Avon Products, Inc., effective March 25, 2002.
10.11 * Fourth Amendment to the         Benefit Restoration Plan of Avon Products, Inc., effective January 26,         2005.
10.12 * Trust Agreement, dated as of October 29, 1998, between         Avon and The Chase Manhattan Bank, N.A., as Trustee, relating         to the grantor trust.
10.13 * Trust Agreement, dated as of March 2, 1990, between         Avon and Chase Manhattan Bank, N.A. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to Avon's Quarterly         Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 1990 and refiled under Form SE for the year ended         December 31, 1996 (File No. 1-04881)).
10.14 * First Amendment, dated as of January 30, 1992,         to the Trust Agreement, dated as of March 2, 1990, by and between Avon and Chase Manhattan Bank, N.A. (incorporated         by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to Avon's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter         ended March 31, 1993 (File No. 1-04881)).
10.15 * Second Amendment, dated as of June 12, 1992,         to the Trust Agreement, dated as of March 2, 1990, by and between Avon and Chase Manhattan Bank, N.A. (incorporated         by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to Avon's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter         ended March 31, 1993 (File No. 1-04881)).
10.16 * Third Amendment, dated as of November 5, 1992,         to the Trust Agreement, dated as of March 2, 1990, by and between Avon and Chase Manhattan Bank, N.A.         (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to Avon's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter         ended March 31, 1993 (File No. 1-04881)).
10.17 * Avon Products, Inc. Deferred Compensation Plan,         amended and restated as of January 1, 2003 .
10.18 * First Amendment to the Avon Products, Inc. Deferred         Compensation Plan effective January 26, 2005.
10.19 * Avon Products, Inc. Amended and Restated Benefit         Protection Trust Agreement, dated as of April 21, 1995, between Avon and Chemical Bank, the Trustee,         and Buck Consultants, Inc., the Consulting Firm, amending and restating the Avon Products, Inc. Benefit         Protection Trust Agreement dated as of August 3, 1989 between Avon and Manufacturers Hanover Trust         Company (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.14 to Avon's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year         ended December 31, 1995 (File No. 1-04881)).
10.20 * Stock Option Agreement, dated as         of November 4, 1999, between Avon and Stanley C. Gault (incorporated by         reference to Exhibit 10.13 to Avons         Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1999).
16 10.21 * Avon Products, Inc. Year 2000 Stock Incentive         Plan (incorporated by reference to Appendix A to the Companys         Proxy Statement on Form 14A as filed with the Commission on March 27, 2000).
10.22 * Amendment of the Avon Products, Inc. Year 2000         Stock Incentive Plan, effective January 1, 2002 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.17 to         Avons Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2002).
10.23 * Employment Agreement, dated as of December 11,         1997, between Avon and Andrea Jung (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.20 to Avon's Annual Report         on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1997 (File No. 1-04881)).
10.24 * Employment Agreement, dated as of September 1,         1994, between Avon and Susan J. Kropf.
10.25 * Employment Agreement, dated as of August 7, 1998,         between Avon and Robert J. Corti.
10.26 * Employment Agreement,       dated as of January 1, 2001, between Avon and Gilbert L. Klemann, II.
10.27 * Offer letter dated November 1, 2004 to Elizabeth         A. Smith (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Avons Current Report on Form 8-K filed         January 6, 2005).
.
10.28 * Description of Consulting Arrangement between         Avon and Fernando Lezama, effective as of March 31, 2002 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.19 to         Avons Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2001).
10.29 * Avon Products, Inc. Compensation Plan for Non-Employee         Directors, as restated June 1, 2000 (incorporated by reference         to Exhibit 10.17 to Avons         Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2000).
10.30 * First Amendment to the Restated Avon Products,         Inc. Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors, effective January 1, 2002 (incorporated by reference         to Exhibit 10.21 to Avons Annual Report on Form 10- K for the year ended December 31, 2001).
10.31 * Second Amendment           to the Restated Avon Products, Inc. Compensation Plan for Non-Employee         Directors, effective January 1, 2004.
10.32 * Board of Directors of Avon Products, Inc. Deferred         Compensation Plan, as amended and restated effective as of January 1, 1997 (incorporated by reference         to Exhibit 10.23 to Avons Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1997 (File No.         1-04881)).
10.33 * Trust Agreement, dated as of December 31, 1991,         between Avon and Manufacturers Hanover Trust Company (incorporated by reference to Exhibit         10.23 to Avon's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1991 and refiled under Form         SE for the year ended December 31, 1996 (File No. 1- 04881)).
10.34 * First Amendment, dated as of November 5, 1992,         to the Trust Agreement dated as of December 31, 1991, by and between Avon and Manufacturers Hanover Trust         Company (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.7 to Avon's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the         quarter ended March 31, 1993 (File No. 1-04881)).
10.35 * Stock Option Agreement under the         Avon Products, Inc. 1993 Stock Incentive Plan, dated June 4, 1998, between         Avon and Andrea Jung (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to Avons Quarterly Report         on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1998         (File No. 1-04881)).
10.36 * Avon Products, Inc. Executive Incentive Plan,         approved by shareholders on May 1, 2003 (incorporated by reference to Appendix E to Avons Proxy         Statement on Form 14A as filed with the Commission on March 27, 2003).
17 10.37 * Description of Enhanced Retirement Benefit Arrangements         for Jill Kanin-Lovers (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.28 to Avons Annual Report         on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2003).
10.38 * Form of U.S. Stock Option Agreement under the         Avon Products, Inc. Year 2000 Stock Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to         Avons Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2004).
10.39 * Form of U.S. Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement         under the Avon Products, Inc. Year 2000 Stock Incentive         Plan.
10.40 * Description of annual cash bonus awards for 2004         under Avons Executive Incentive Plan and Management Incentive Plan and the performance goals established         by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors for annual cash bonus awards for 2005         (incorporated by reference to Avons Current Report on Form 8-K filed February 1, 2005).
10.41 * Description of payouts under a Transformation         Long Term Incentive Plan for the performance period 2002- 2004 (incorporated by reference to Avons         Current Report on Form 8-K filed February 1, 2005).
10.42 * Description of a 2005-2007 Performance Cash Plan         approved by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors (incorporated by reference to Avons         Current Report on Form 8-K filed February 1, 2005).
13 Portions of the Annual Report to Shareholders         for the year ended December 31, 2004 incorporated by reference in response to Items 1, 5 through 8         in this filing.
21 Subsidiaries of the registrant.
23 Consent of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (set forth         on page S-2 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K).
24 Power of Attorney.
31.1 Certification of Chief Executive Officer pursuant         to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
31.2 Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant         to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 32.1 Certification of Chief Executive Officer Pursuant         to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, As Adopted Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
32.2 Certification of Chief Financial Officer Pursuant         to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, As Adopted Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
* The Exhibits identified above with an asterisk (*)     are management contracts or compensatory plans or arrangements Avon's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004, at the time of filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission, shall modify and supersede all prior documents filed  pursuant to Section 13, 14 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 for purposes of any offers or sales of any securities after the date of such filing pursuant to any Registration Statement or Prospectus filed pursuant to the Securities Act  of 1933, which incorporates by reference such Annual Report on Form 10-K.
18 SIGNATURES Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, on the 2 nd day of March 2005.
Avon Products, Inc.
/s/ Gilbert L. Klemann, II Gilbert L. Klemann, II Senior Vice President and General Counsel 19 Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.
Signature Title Date * Andrea Jung Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer March 2, 2005 and Director - Principal Executive Officer * Susan J. Kropf President and Chief Operating Officer and Director March 2, 2005 * Robert J. Corti Executive Vice President and Chief Financial         Officer - March 2, 2005 Principal Financial Officer * Janice Marolda Klettner Vice President and Controller  Principal         Accounting March 2, 2005 Officer * W. Don Cornwell Director March 2, 2005 * Edward T. Fogarty Director March 2, 2005 * Stanley C. Gault Director March 2, 2005 * Fred Hassan Director March 2, 2005 * Maria Elena Lagomasino Director March 2, 2005 * Ann S. Moore Director March 2, 2005 * Paula Stern Director March 2, 2005 * Lawrence A. Weinbach Director March 2, 2005 *By /s/ Gilbert l. Klemann, II Gilbert L. Klemann, II Attorney-in-fact March 2, 2005 20 REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM ON FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE To the Board of Directors of Avon Products, Inc.: Our audits of the consolidated financial statements, of management's assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting and of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting referred to in our report dated February 28, 2005 appearing in the 2004 Annual Report to Shareholders of Avon Products, Inc. (which report, consolidated financial statements and assessment are incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K) also included an audit of the financial statement schedule listed in Item 15(a)(2) of this Form 10-K. In our opinion, this financial statement schedule presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein when read in conjunction with the related consolidated financial statements.
/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP New York, New York February 28, 2005 S-1 CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements on Form S-3 (Reg. No. 333-103432) and Form S-8 (Reg. Nos. 333-43820, 333-47209, 333-65989 and 333-65998) of Avon Products, Inc. of our  report dated February 28, 2005 relating to the financial statements, managements assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, which appears in  the 2004 Annual Report to Shareholders, which is incorporated in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We also consent to the incorporation by reference of our report dated February 28, 2005 relating to the financial statement schedule, which appears in  this Form 10-K.
/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP New York, New York February 28, 2005 S-2 AVON PRODUCTS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES SCHEDULE II  VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS (In millions) Years ended December 31 Additions Description Balance       at Beginning of Period Charged to Costs       and Expenses Charged       to Other     Accounts Deductions Balance       at End of     Period 2004 Allowance for doubtful accounts receivable $ 61.6 $ 140.0 $ - $ 124.0 (a) $ 77.6 Allowance for sales returns 19.5 - 285.1 281.2 (b) 23.4 Allowance for inventory obsolescence 44.6 65.5 - 53.1 (c) 57.0 Deferred tax asset valuation allowance 84.8 - - 14.6 (e) 70.2 2003 Allowance for doubtful accounts receivable $ 48.4 $ 124.8 $ - $ 111.6 (a) $ 61.6 Allowance for sales returns 17.6 - 289.8 287.9 (b) 19.5 Allowance for inventory obsolescence 39.8 55.6 - 50.8 (c) 44.6 Deferred tax asset valuation allowance 37.7 47.1 (d) - - 84.8 2002 Allowance for doubtful accounts receivable $ 43.5 $ 108.3 $ - $ 103.4 (a) $ 48.4 Allowance for sales returns 13.5 - 266.5 262.4 (b) 17.6 Allowance for inventory obsolescence 45.3 58.9 - 64.4 (c) 39.8 Deferred tax asset valuation allowance 28.8 8.9 (d) - - 37.7 (a) Accounts written off, net of recoveries and foreign currency translation adjustment.
(b) Returned product destroyed and foreign currency translation adjustment.
(c) Obsolete inventory destroyed and foreign currency translation adjustment.
(d) Increase in valuation allowance for tax loss and tax credit carryforward benefits is because it is more likely than not that some or all of the deferred tax assets will not be utilized in the future.
(e) Decrease in valuation allowance primarily due to a decrease in foreign tax credit carryforwards for which a valuation allowance had been provided.