0001193125-12-316848.txt : 20120726
0001193125-12-316848.hdr.sgml : 20120726
20120726161248
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001193125-12-316848
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		15
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20120630
FILED AS OF DATE:		20120726
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20120726

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			MICROSOFT CORP
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000789019
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	SERVICES-PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE [7372]
		IRS NUMBER:				911144442
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			WA
		FISCAL YEAR END:			0630

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-14278
		FILM NUMBER:		12987580

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		ONE MICROSOFT WAY
		CITY:			REDMOND
		STATE:			WA
		ZIP:			98052-6399
		BUSINESS PHONE:		425-882-8080

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		ONE MICROSOFT WAY
		CITY:			REDMOND
		STATE:			WA
		ZIP:			98052-6399


10-K
1
d347676d10k.htm
FORM 10-K

Form 10-K
Table of Contents

 UNITED STATES 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION  Washington, D.C. 20549  
FORM 10-K 
 

For the Fiscal Year Ended June30, 2012 
OR  

For the Transition Period
From to 
Commission File Number 0-14278 
 MICROSOFT CORPORATION
  
 ONE MICROSOFT WAY, REDMOND, WASHINGTON 98052-6399 
(425) 882-8080 
www.microsoft.com/investor 
Securities registered pursuant to Section12(b) of the Act:  COMMON STOCK, $0.00000625 par value per
share
 NASDAQ  Securities registered pursuant to Section12(g) of the Act: 
NONE  Indicate by check mark
if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.YesxNo  
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section13 or Section15(d) of the Exchange
Act.YesNo x  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1)has filed all reports required to be filed by Section13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such
shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2)has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.YesxNo  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its
corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was
required to submit and post such
files).YesxNo   Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item405 of Regulation S-K (229.405 of this chapter) is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of
registrants knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.x  Indicate by check mark whether the
registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of large accelerated filer, accelerated filer and smaller reporting
company in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.  
 Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange
Act).YesNo x  As of December31, 2011, the aggregate market value of the registrants common stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant was $195,333,665,376 based on the closing sale price as reported on the NASDAQ
National Market System. As of July18, 2012, there were 8,383,396,575 shares of common stock outstanding.  DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED
BY REFERENCE  Portions of the definitive Proxy Statement to be delivered to shareholders in connection with the Annual Meeting of
Shareholders to be held on November28, 2012 are incorporated by reference into Part III.  



Table of Contents


MICROSOFT CORPORATION 
FORM 10-K  For The Fiscal
Year Ended June30, 2012  INDEX 


 2 


Table of Contents


PART I  Item 1  
Note About Forward-Looking Statements 
Certain statements in this report, other than purely historical information, including estimates, projections, statements relating to our business
plans, objectives, and expected operating results, and the assumptions upon which those statements are based, are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Section27A of
the Securities Act of 1933 and Section21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Forward-looking statements may appear throughout this report, including without limitation, the following sections: Business, Managements
Discussion and Analysis, and Risk Factors. These forward-looking statements generally are identified by the words believe, project, expect, anticipate, estimate,
intend, strategy, future, opportunity, plan, may, should, will, would, will be, will continue, will likely
result, and similar expressions. Forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties which may cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements.
A detailed discussion of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results and events to differ materially from such forward-looking statements is included in the section titled Risk Factors (Part I, Item1A of this Form
10-K). We undertake no obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statements, whether because of new information, future events, or otherwise.  PART I  ITEM1. BUSINESS 
GENERAL  Microsoft was
founded in 1975. Our mission is to enable people and businesses throughout the world to realize their full potential by creating technology that transforms the way people work, play, and communicate. We develop and market software, services, and
hardware that deliver new opportunities, greater convenience, and enhanced value to peoples lives. We do business worldwide and have offices in more than 100 countries.  We generate revenue by developing, licensing, and supporting a wide range of software products and services, by designing and selling hardware, and by delivering relevant online advertising to a global customer
audience. In addition to selling individual products and services, we offer suites of products and services.  Our products include
operating systems for personal computers (PCs), servers, phones, and other intelligent devices; server applications for distributed computing environments; productivity applications; business solution applications; desktop and server
management tools; software development tools; video games; and online advertising. We also design and sell hardware including the Xbox 360 gaming and entertainment console, Kinect for Xbox 360, Xbox 360 accessories, and Microsoft PC hardware
products.  We provide consulting and product and solution support services, and we train and certify computer system integrators and
developers. We also offer cloud-based solutions that provide customers with software, services and content over the Internet by way of shared computing resources located in centralized data centers. Cloud revenue is earned primarily from usage fees
and advertising.  Examples of cloud-based computing services we offer include: 

 
 

 3 


Table of Contents


PART I  Item 1  
 


 We also conduct research and develop advanced technologies for future software and hardware products and services. We believe that we will continue to grow and meet our customers needs by delivering
compelling, new, high-value solutions through our integrated software, hardware, and services platforms, creating new opportunities for partners, improving customer satisfaction, and improving our service excellence, business efficacy, and internal
processes.  OPERATING SEGMENTS  We operate our business in five segments: Windows& Windows Live Division, Server and Tools, Online Services Division, Microsoft Business Division, and Entertainment and Devices Division. Our segments
provide management with a comprehensive financial view of our key businesses. The segments enable the alignment of strategies and objectives across the development, sales, marketing, and services organizations, and they provide a framework for
timely and rational allocation of development, sales, marketing, and services resources within businesses. Additional information on our operating segments and geographic and product information is contained in Note 21  Segment Information and
Geographic Data of the Notes to Financial Statements (Part II, Item8 of this Form 10-K).  Windows& Windows Live Division
 Windows& Windows Live Division (Windows Division) develops and markets PC operating systems, related software
and online services, and PC hardware products. This collection of software, hardware, and services is designed to empower individuals, companies, and organizations and simplify everyday tasks through seamless operations across the users
hardware and software and efficient Web browsing. User demand for mobility is increasing; as a result, we are working to increase the number of scenarios and devices that Windows enables. 
Windows Division revenue growth is largely correlated to the growth of the PC market worldwide, as approximately 75% of total Windows Division
revenue comes from Windows operating system software purchased by original equipment manufacturers (OEMs), which they pre-install on equipment they sell. In addition to PC market volume changes, Windows revenue is impacted by:
 
 


 Principal Products and
Services:Windows 7 operating system; Windows Live suite of applications and web services; and PC hardware products.  The next version of our operating system, Windows 8, will be generally available on October26, 2012. At that time, we will begin selling the Surface, a series of Microsoft-designed and manufactured hardware
devices. 
 4 


Table of Contents


PART I  Item 1  
Competition  The Windows operating system faces competition from various commercial software products and from alternative platforms and devices, mainly from Apple and Google. We believe Windows competes effectively by giving
customers choice, value, flexibility, security, an easy-to-use interface, compatibility with a broad range of hardware and software applications, including those that enable productivity, and the largest support network for any operating system.
Additionally, Windows 8 will run on both x86 and ARM architecture, enabling an even wider range of devices that run Windows. The Windows 8 operating system will include the Windows Store, an online application marketplace. This marketplace will
benefit our developer and partner ecosystems by providing access to a large customer base and will benefit Windows users by providing centralized access to certified applications. 
Windows Live software and services compete with similar software and service products from Apple, Google, Yahoo!, and a wide array of websites and
portals that provide communication and sharing tools and services.  Our PC hardware products face competition from computer and other
hardware manufacturers, many of which are also current or potential partners.  Server and Tools 
Server and Tools develops and markets server software, software developer tools, services, and solutions that are designed to make information
technology professionals and developers and their systems more productive and efficient. Server software is integrated server infrastructure and middleware designed to support software applications built on the Windows Server operating system. This
includes the server platform, database, business intelligence, storage, management and operations, virtualization, service-oriented architecture platform, security and identity software. Server and Tools also builds standalone and software
development lifecycle tools for software architects, developers, testers, and project managers. Server offerings can be run on-site, in a partner-hosted environment, or in a Microsoft-hosted environment. 
Our cloud-based services comprise a scalable operating system with computing, storage, management, and database capabilities, from which customers
can run enterprise workloads and web applications. These services also include a platform that helps developers connect applications and services in the cloud or on premise. Our goal is to enable customers to devote more resources to development and
use of applications that benefit their businesses, rather than managing on-premises hardware and software. We are unique in our ability to provide customers hybrid solutions that bring together the benefits of traditional on-site offerings with
cloud-based services.  Server and Tools offers a broad range of enterprise consulting and product support services (Enterprise
Services) that assist customers in developing, deploying, and managing Microsoft server and desktop solutions. In addition, Windows Embedded extends the power of Windows and the cloud to intelligent systems by delivering specialized operating
systems, tools, and services. Server and Tools also provides training and certification to developers and information technology professionals for our Server and Tools, Microsoft Business Division, and Windows& Windows Live Division
products and services.  Approximately 55% of Server and Tools revenue comes primarily from multi-year volume licensing agreements,
approximately 25% is purchased through transactional volume licensing programs, retail packaged product and licenses sold to OEMs, and the remainder comes from Enterprise Services. 
Principal Products and Services:Windows Server operating systems; Windows Azure;
Microsoft SQL Server; SQL Azure; Windows Intune; Windows Embedded; Visual Studio; Silverlight; System Center products; Microsoft Consulting Services; and Premier product support services. 
 5 


Table of Contents


PART I  Item 1  
Competition  Our server operating system products face competition from a wide variety of server operating systems and applications offered by companies with a range of market approaches. Vertically integrated computer
manufacturers such as Hewlett-Packard, IBM, and Oracle offer their own versions of the Unix operating system preinstalled on server hardware. Nearly all computer manufacturers offer server hardware for the Linux operating system and many contribute
to Linux operating system development. The competitive position of Linux has also benefited from the large number of compatible applications now produced by many commercial and non-commercial software developers. A number of companies, such as Red
Hat, supply versions of Linux.  We compete to provide enterprise-wide computing solutions and point solutions with numerous commercial
software vendors that offer solutions and middleware technology platforms, software applications for connectivity (both Internet and intranet), security, hosting, database, and e-business servers. IBM and Oracle lead a group of companies focused on
the Java Platform Enterprise Edition that compete with our enterprise-wide computing solutions. Commercial competitors for our server applications for PC-based distributed client/server environments include CA Technologies, IBM, and Oracle. Our Web
application platform software competes with open source software such as Apache, Linux, MySQL, and PHP. In middleware, we compete against Java middleware such as Geronimo, JBoss, and Spring Framework. 
Our system management solutions compete with server management and server virtualization platform providers, such as BMC, CA Technologies,
Hewlett-Packard, IBM, and VMware. Our database, business intelligence, and data warehousing solutions offerings compete with products from IBM, Oracle, SAP, and other companies. Our products for software developers compete against offerings from
Adobe, IBM, Oracle, other companies, and open-source projects, including Eclipse (sponsored by CA Technologies, IBM, Oracle, and SAP), PHP, and Ruby on Rails, among others.  Our embedded systems compete in a highly fragmented environment in which key competitors include IBM, Intel, and versions of embeddable Linux from commercial Linux vendors such as Metrowerks and MontaVista
Software.  Our cloud-based services face diverse competition from companies such as Amazon, Google, Salesforce.com, and VMware. SQL
Azure specifically faces competition from IBM, Oracle, and other open source offerings. The Enterprise Services business competes with a number of diverse companies, including multinational consulting firms and small niche businesses focused on
specific technologies.  We believe our server products, cloud-based services, and Enterprise Services provide customers with advantages
in performance, total costs of ownership, and productivity by delivering superior applications, development tools, compatibility with a broad base of hardware and software applications, security, and manageability. 
Online Services Division  Online Services
Division (OSD) develops and markets information and content designed to help people simplify tasks and make more informed decisions online, and help advertisers connect with audiences. OSD offerings include Bing, MSN, adCenter, and
advertiser tools. Bing and MSN generate revenue through the sale of search and display advertising, accounting for nearly all of OSDs annual revenue. Expanding Bing beyond a standalone consumer search engine, we continue to expand our use of
Bings technology by integrating the platform into other Microsoft products, including Xbox 360 and Windows Phone, to enhance those offerings.  In December 2009, we entered into an agreement with Yahoo! to provide the exclusive algorithmic and paid search platform for Yahoo! websites worldwide. We have completed the worldwide algorithmic transition and the
paid search transition in the U.S., Canada, U.K., France, Germany, and several other markets, and are transitioning paid search in the remaining international markets. We believe this agreement is allowing us to improve the effectiveness and
increase the relevance of our search offering through greater scale in search queries and an expanded and more competitive search and advertising marketplace.  Principal Products and Services:Bing; MSN; adCenter; and Atlas online tools for advertisers. 
 6 


Table of Contents


PART I  Item 1  
Competition  OSD competes with Google and a wide array of websites and portals that provide content and online offerings to end users. Our success depends on our ability to attract new users, understand intent, and match intent
with relevant content and advertiser offerings. We believe we can attract new users by continuing to offer new and compelling products and services and to further differentiate our offerings by providing a broad selection of content and by helping
users make faster, more informed decisions and take action more quickly by providing relevant search results, expanded search services, and deeply-integrated social recommendations.  Microsoft Business Division  Microsoft Business Division (MBD) offerings consist
of the Microsoft Office system (comprising mainly Office, Office 365, SharePoint, Exchange, and Lync) and Microsoft Dynamics business solutions, which may be delivered either on premise or as a cloud-based service.The Microsoft Office system
is designed to increase personal, team, and organization productivity through a range of programs, services, and software solutions and generates over 90% of MBD revenue. Growth in Office depends on our ability to add value to the core Office
product set and to continue to expand our product offerings in other areas such as content management, enterprise search, collaboration, unified communications, and business intelligence. Microsoft Dynamics products provide business solutions for
financial management, customer relationship management (CRM), supply chain management, and analytics applications for small and mid-size businesses, large organizations, and divisions of global enterprises. 
Approximately 80% of MBD revenue is generated from sales to businesses, which includes Microsoft Office system revenue generated through volume
licensing agreements and Microsoft Dynamics revenue. Revenue from sales to businesses generally depends upon the number of information workers in a licensed enterprise and is therefore relatively independent of the number of PCs sold in a given
year.Approximately 20% of MBD revenue is derived from sales to consumers, which includes revenue from retail packaged product sales and OEM revenue. This revenue generally is affected by the level of PC shipments and by product launches.
 Principal Products and Services:Microsoft Office; Microsoft Exchange;
Microsoft SharePoint; Microsoft Lync; Microsoft Office Project and Office Visio; Microsoft Dynamics ERP and Dynamics CRM; Microsoft Office 365, which is an online services offering of Microsoft Office, Exchange, SharePoint, and Lync; and Microsoft
Office Web Apps, which are the online companions to Microsoft Word, Excel, PowerPoint, and OneNote.  Competition 
Competitors to the Microsoft Office system include software application vendors such as Adobe, Apple, Cisco, Google, IBM, Oracle, SAP, and numerous
Web-based competitors as well as local application developers in Asia and Europe. Apple distributes versions of its application software products with various models of its PCs and through its mobile devices. Cisco is using its position in
enterprise communications equipment to grow its unified communications business. IBM has a measurable installed base with its office productivity products. Google provides a hosted messaging and productivity suite that competes with the Microsoft
Office system. Web-based offerings competing with individual applications can also position themselves as alternatives to Microsoft Office system products. We believe our products compete effectively based on our strategy of providing powerful,
flexible, secure, easy to use solutions that work well with technologies our customers already have and are available on a device or via the cloud.  Our Microsoft Dynamics products compete with vendors such as Oracle and SAP in the market for large organizations and divisions of global enterprises. In the market focused on providing solutions for small and
mid-sized businesses, our Microsoft Dynamics products compete with vendors such as Infor and Sage.Additionally, Salesforce.coms on-demand CRM offerings compete directly with Microsoft Dynamics CRM Online and Microsoft Dynamics CRMs
on-premise offerings. 
 7 


Table of Contents


PART I  Item 1  
Entertainment and Devices Division 
Entertainment and Devices Division (EDD) develops and markets products and services designed to entertain and connect people. The Xbox
360 entertainment platform, including Kinect, is designed to provide a unique variety of entertainment choices through the use of our devices, peripherals, content, and online services. Skype is designed to connect friends, family, clients, and
colleagues through a variety of devices. Windows Phone is designed to bring users closer to the people, applications, and content they need, while providing unique capabilities such as Microsoft Office and Xbox LIVE. Through a strategic alliance,
Windows Phone and Nokia are jointly creating new mobile products and services and extending established product and services to new markets.  Principal Products and Services:Xbox 360 gaming and entertainment console, Kinect for Xbox 360, Xbox 360 video games, Xbox 360 accessories; Xbox LIVE; Skype; and Windows Phone.
 Competition  Entertainment and
devices businesses are highly competitive, characterized by rapid product life cycles, frequent introductions of new products and game titles, and the development of new technologies. The markets for our products are characterized by significant
price competition, and we anticipate continued pricing pressure from our competitors. Our competitors vary in size from very small companies with limited resources to very large, diversified corporations with substantial financial and marketing
resources. We compete primarily on the basis of product quality and variety, timing of product releases, and effectiveness of distribution and marketing.  Our Xbox gaming and entertainment business competes with console platforms from Nintendo and Sony, both of which have a large, established base of customers. The lifecycle for gaming and entertainment consoles
averages five to 10 years. We released Xbox 360, our second generation console, in November 2005. Nintendo and Sony released new versions of their game consoles in late 2006. We believe the success of gaming and entertainment consoles is determined
by the availability of games for the console, providing exclusive game content that gamers seek, the computational power and reliability of the console, and the ability to create new experiences via online services, downloadable content, and
peripherals. In addition to Nintendo and Sony, our businesses compete with both Apple and Google in offering content products and services to the consumer.We believe the Xbox 360 entertainment platform is positioned well against competitive
products and services based on significant innovation in hardware architecture, user interface, developer tools, online gaming and entertainment services, and continued strong exclusive content from our own game franchises as well as other digital
content offerings.  Windows Phone faces competition primarily from Apple, Google, and Research In Motion. Skype competes primarily with
Apple and Google, which offer a selection of instant messaging, voice, and video communication products.  OPERATIONS 
We have operations centers that support all operations in their regions, including customer contract and order processing, credit and collections,
information processing, and vendor management and logistics. The regional center in Ireland supports the European, Middle Eastern, and African region; the center in Singapore supports the Japan, India, Greater China, and Asia-Pacific region; and the
centers in Fargo, North Dakota, Fort Lauderdale, Florida, Puerto Rico, Redmond, Washington, and Reno, Nevada support Latin America and North America. In addition to the operations centers, we also operate data centers throughout the Americas,
Europe, and Asia regions.  To serve the needs of customers around the world and to improve the quality and usability of products in
international markets, we localize many of our products to reflect local languages and conventions. Localizing a product may require modifying the user interface, altering dialog boxes, and translating text. 
We contract most of our manufacturing activities for Xbox 360 and related games, Kinect for Xbox 360, various retail software packaged products,
Surface devices, and Microsoft PC hardware to third parties. Our products may include some components that are available from only one or limited sources. Our Xbox 360 console and Kinect for Xbox

 8 


Table of Contents


PART I  Item 1  

360 include key components that are supplied by a single source. The integrated central processing unit/graphics processing unit is purchased from IBM, and the supporting embedded dynamic random
access memory chips are purchased from Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company. Sole source suppliers also will produce key components of our Surface devices. We generally have the ability to use other manufacturers if the current vendor becomes
unavailable or unable to meet our requirements. We generally have multiple sources for raw materials, supplies, and components, and are often able to acquire component parts and materials on a volume discount basis. 
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT 
During fiscal years 2012, 2011, and 2010, research and development expense was $9.8 billion, $9.0 billion, and $8.7billion, respectively.
These amounts represented 13%, 13%, and 14%, respectively, of revenue in each of those years. We plan to continue to make significant investments in a broad range of research and development efforts. 
Product Development and Intellectual Property  We develop most of our software products and services internally. Internal development allows us to maintain competitive advantages that come from closer technical control over our products and services. It also
gives us the freedom to decide which modifications and enhancements are most important and when they should be implemented. We strive to obtain information as early as possible about changing usage patterns and hardware advances that may affect
software design. Before releasing new software platforms, we provide application vendors with a range of resources and guidelines for development, training, and testing. Generally, we also create product documentation internally. 
We protect our intellectual property investments in a variety of ways. We work actively in the U.S. and internationally to ensure the enforcement
of copyright, trademark, trade secret, and other protections that apply to our software and hardware products, services, business plans, and branding. We are a leader among technology companies in pursuing patents and currently have a portfolio of
over 31,000 U.S. and international patents issued and over 38,000 pending. While we employ much of our internally developed intellectual property exclusively in Microsoft products and services, we also engage in outbound and inbound licensing of
specific patented technologies that are incorporated into licensees or Microsofts products. From time to time, we enter into broader cross-license agreements with other technology companies covering entire groups of patents. We also
purchase or license technology that we incorporate into our products or services.  While it may be necessary in the future to seek or
renew licenses relating to various aspects of our products and business methods, we believe, based upon past experience and industry practice, such licenses generally could be obtained on commercially reasonable terms. We believe our continuing
research and product development are not materially dependent on any single license or other agreement with a third party relating to the development of our products.  Investing in the Future  Microsofts success is based on our ability to create new and
compelling products, services, and experiences for our users, initiate and embrace disruptive technology trends, to enter new geographic and product markets, and to drive broad adoption of our products and services. We invest in a range of emerging
technology trends and breakthroughs that we believe offer significant opportunities to deliver value to our customers and growth for the company. We maintain our long-term commitment to research and development across a wide spectrum of
technologies, tools, and platforms spanning communication and collaboration, information access and organization, entertainment, business and e-commerce, advertising, and devices. 
While our main research and development facilities are located in Redmond, Washington, we also operate research and development facilities in other
parts of the U.S. and around the world, including Canada, China, Denmark, Estonia, Germany, India, Ireland, Israel, and the United Kingdom. This global approach helps us remain competitive in local markets and enables us to continue to attract top
talent from across the world. We generally fund research at 
 9 


Table of Contents


PART I  Item 1  

the corporate level to ensure that we are looking beyond immediate product considerations to opportunities further in the future. We also fund research and development activities at the business
segment level. Much of our business segment level research and development is coordinated with other segments and leveraged across the company.  In addition to our main research and development operations, we also operate Microsoft Research. Microsoft Research is one of the worlds largest computer science research organizations, and works in close
collaboration with top universities around the world to advance the state-of-the-art in computer science, providing us a unique perspective on future technology trends.  Based on our assessment of key technology trends and our broad focus on long-term research and development, we see significant opportunities to drive future growth in smart connected devices, cloud computing,
entertainment, search, communications, and productivity.  DISTRIBUTION, SALES, AND MARKETING 
We market and distribute our products and services primarily through the following channels: OEM; distributors and resellers; and online.
 OEM  We distribute software
through OEMs that pre-install our software on new PCs, servers, smartphones, and other intelligent devices that they sell to end customers. The largest component of the OEM business is the Windows operating system pre-installed on PCs. OEMs also
sell hardware pre-installed with other Microsoft products, including server and embedded operating systems and applications such as our Microsoft Office suite. In addition to these products, we also market through OEMs software services such as our
Windows Live Essentials suite.  There are two broad categories of OEMs. The largest OEMs, many of which operate globally, are referred
to as Direct OEMs, as our relationship with them is managed through a direct agreement between Microsoft and the manufacturer. We have distribution agreements covering one or more of our products with virtually all of the multinational
OEMs, including Acer, ASUS, Dell, Fujitsu, HTC, Hewlett-Packard, LG, Lenovo, Nokia, Samsung, Sony, Toshiba, and with many regional and local OEMs. The second broad category of OEMs consists of lower-volume PC manufacturers (also called system
builders), which source their Microsoft software for pre-installation and local redistribution primarily through the Microsoft distributor channel rather than through a direct agreement or relationship with Microsoft. Some of the distributors
in the Microsoft distributor channel are global, such as Ingram Micro and Tech Data, but most operate at a local or regional level.  Distributors and
Resellers  Many organizations that license our products and services through enterprise agreements transact directly with us, with
sales support from solution integrators, independent software vendors, web agencies, and developers that advise organizations on licensing our products and services (Enterprise Software Advisors). Organizations also license our products
and services indirectly, primarily through large account resellers (LARs), distributors, value-added resellers (VARs), OEMs, system builder channels, and retailers. Although each type of reselling partner reaches
organizations of all sizes, LARs are primarily engaged with large organizations, distributors resell primarily to VARs, and VARs typically reach small-sized and medium-sized organizations. Enterprise Software Advisors typically are also authorized
as LARs and operate as resellers for our other licensing programs, such as the Select Plus and Open licensing programs discussed under Licensing Options below. Some of our distributors include Ingram Micro and Tech Data, and some of our
largest resellers include CDW, Dell, Insight Enterprises, and Software House International. Our Microsoft Dynamics software offerings are licensed to enterprises through a global network of channel partners providing vertical solutions and
specialized services. We distribute our retail packaged products primarily through independent non-exclusive distributors, authorized replicators, resellers, and retail outlets, including Microsoft Stores. Individual consumers obtain these products
primarily through retail outlets, such as Wal-Mart and Dixons. We have a network of field sales representatives and field support personnel that solicits orders from distributors and resellers, and provides product training and sales support.

 10 


Table of Contents


PART I  Item 1  
Online  Although client-based software will continue to be an important part of our business, increasingly we are delivering additional value to customers through cloud-based services. We provide online content and
services to consumers through Bing, MSN portals and channels, Microsoft Office Web Apps, Windows Phone Marketplace, Xbox LIVE, and Zune Marketplace. We provide content and services to business users through the Microsoft Online Services platform,
which includes cloud-based services such as Exchange Online, Microsoft Dynamics CRM Online, Microsoft Lync, Microsoft Office 365, Microsoft Office Communications Online, Microsoft Office Live Meeting, SQL Azure, SharePoint Online, Windows Azure, and
Windows Intune. Other services delivered online include our online advertising platform with offerings for advertisers, as well as Microsoft Developer Networks subscription content and updates, periodic product updates, and online technical and
practice readiness resources to support our partners in developing and selling our products and solutions. We also sell our products through our online store, microsoftstore.com. 
LICENSING OPTIONS  We
license software to organizations under arrangements that allow the end-user customer to acquire multiple licenses of products and services. Our arrangements for organizations to acquire multiple licenses of products and services are designed to
provide them with a means of doing so without having to acquire separate packaged product through retail channels. In delivering organizational licensing arrangements to the market, we use different programs designed to provide flexibility for
organizations of various sizes. While these programs may differ in various parts of the world, generally they include those discussed below.  Open
Licensing  Designed primarily for small-to-medium organizations, Open Programs allows customers to acquire perpetual or subscription
licenses and, at the customers election, rights to future versions of software products over a specified time period (two or three years depending on the Open Programs used). The offering that conveys rights to future versions of certain
software products over the contract period is called software assurance. Software assurance also provides support, tools, and training to help customers deploy and use software efficiently. Open Programs has several variations to fit customers
diverse way of purchasing. Under the Open License Program, customers can acquire licenses only, or licenses with software assurance. They can also renew software assurance upon the expiration of existing volume licensing agreements. 
Select Plus Licensing  Designed primarily
for medium-to-large organizations, the Select Plus Program allows customers to acquire perpetual licenses and, at the customers election, software assurance over a specified time period (generally three years or less). Similar to Open
Programs, the Select Plus Program allows customers to acquire licenses only, acquire licenses with software assurance, or renew software assurance upon the expiration of existing volume licensing agreements. Online services are also available for
purchase through the Select Plus Program, and subscriptions are generally structured with terms between one and three years.  Services Provider
Licensing  The Microsoft Services Provider License Agreement (SPLA) is a program targeted to service providers and
Independent Software Vendors (ISVs) allowing these partners to provide software services and hosted applications to their end customers. Agreements are generally structured with a three-year term, and partners are billed monthly based
upon consumption. 
 11 


Table of Contents


PART I  Item 1  
Enterprise Agreement Licensing  Enterprise agreements are targeted at medium and large organizations that want to acquire licenses to Online Services and/or software products, along with software assurance, for all or substantial parts of their
enterprise. Enterprises can elect to either acquire perpetual licenses or, under the Enterprise Subscription Program, can acquire non-perpetual, subscription agreements for a specified time period (generally three years). Online Services are also
available for purchase through the Enterprise agreement and subscriptions are generally structured with three year terms.  CUSTOMERS
 Our customers include individual consumers, small- and medium-sized organizations, enterprises, governmental institutions,
educational institutions, Internet service providers, application developers, and OEMs. Consumers and small- and medium-sized organizations obtain our products primarily through distributors, resellers, and OEMs. No sales to an individual customer
accounted for more than 10% of fiscal year 2012, 2011, or 2010 revenue. Our practice is to ship our products promptly upon receipt of purchase orders from customers; consequently, backlog is not significant. 
EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT  Our executive officers as of July26, 2012 were as follows:  
  Mr.Ballmer was appointed Chief Executive Officer in
January 2000. He served as President from July 1998 to February 2001. Previously, he had served as Executive Vice President, Sales and Support since February 1992. Mr.Ballmer joined Microsoft in 1980. 
Ms.Brummel was named Senior Vice President, Human Resources in December 2005 and in 2011 her title changed to Chief People Officer.She
had been Corporate Vice President, Human Resources since May 2005. From May 2000 to May 2005, she had been Corporate Vice President of the Home& Retail Division.Since joining Microsoft in 1989, Ms.Brummel has held a number of
management positions at Microsoft, including General Manager of Consumer Productivity Business, Product Unit Manager of the Kids Business, and Product Unit Manager of Desktop and Decision Reference Products. 
Mr.DelBene was named President, Microsoft Office Division in September 2010. He served as Senior Vice President for the Microsoft Business
Division since 2006. Since joining Microsoft in 1992, Mr.DelBene has served in several roles in Microsofts product development teams, including Vice President of Authoring and Collaboration Services, General Manager of Microsoft Outlook,
Group Program Manager for Microsoft Exchange, and Group Manager in Microsofts Systems Division.  Mr.Klein was named Chief
Financial Officer in November 2009. He served as Corporate Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, Microsoft Business Division from February 2006 to November 2009 and Chief Financial Officer of Server and Tools from July 2003 to February 2006.
Mr.Klein joined Microsoft in 2002. 
 12 


Table of Contents


PART I  Item 1  
Mr.Mundie was named Chief Research and Strategy Officer in June 2006. He had been Senior
Vice President and Chief Technical Officer, Advanced Strategies and Policy since August 2001. He was named Senior Vice President, Consumer Platforms in February 1996. Mr.Mundie joined Microsoft in 1992. 
Mr.Nadella was named President, Server and Tools in February 2011. He previously held other leadership positions at Microsoft including
Senior Vice President Research and Development for the Online Services Division since 2008 and Corporate Vice President, Research and Development for the Advertising Platform since 2007. From 2000 to 2007, Mr.Nadella led Microsoft Business
Solutions. Prior to that, he spent several years leading engineering efforts in Microsofts Server group. Mr.Nadella joined Microsoft in 1992.  Mr.Sinofsky was named President, Windows& Windows Live Division in July 2009.He served as Senior Vice President of the Windows& Windows Live Engineering Group since December 2006 and
Senior Vice President, Office from December 1999 to December 2006. He had been Vice President, Office since December 1998. Mr.Sinofsky joined the Office team in 1994, increasing his responsibility with each subsequent release of the desktop
suite. Mr.Sinofsky joined Microsoft in 1989.  Mr.Smith was named Senior Vice President, General Counsel, and Secretary in
November 2001 and in 2011 his title changed to Executive Vice President, General Counsel, and Secretary. Mr.Smith was also named Chief Compliance Officer effective July 2002. He had been Deputy General Counsel for Worldwide Sales and
previously was responsible for managing the European Law and Corporate Affairs Group, based in Paris. Mr.Smith joined Microsoft in 1993.  Mr.Turner was named Chief Operating Officer in September 2005. Before joining Microsoft, he was Executive Vice President of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. and President and Chief Executive Officer of the Sams
Club division. From September 2001 to August 2002, he served as Executive Vice President and Chief Information Officer of Wal-Marts Information Systems Division. From March 2000 to September 2001, he served as its Senior Vice President and
Chief Information Officer of the Information Systems Division.  EMPLOYEES 
As of June30, 2012, we employed approximately 94,000 people on a full-time basis, 55,000 in the U.S. and 39,000 internationally. Of the
total, 36,000 were in product research and development, 25,000 in sales and marketing, 18,000 in product support and consulting services, 6,000 in manufacturing and distribution, and 9,000 in general and administration. Our success is highly
dependent on our ability to attract and retain qualified employees. None of our employees are subject to collective bargaining agreements. 
AVAILABLE INFORMATION  Our
Internet address is www.microsoft.com. At our Investor Relations website, www.microsoft.com/investor, we make available free of charge a variety of information for investors. Our goal is to maintain the Investor Relations website as a portal through
which investors can easily find or navigate to pertinent information about us, including:  
 


 



 13 


Table of Contents


PART I  Item 1, 1A  



The information found on our website is not part of this or any other report we file with, or furnish to, the SEC. 
ITEM1A.RISK FACTORS  Our operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including those described below, that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash
flows, and the trading price of our common stock.  We face intense competition across all markets for our products and services, which may lead to
lower revenue or operating margins.  Competition in the technology sector.Our competitors range in
size from diversified global companies with significant research and development resources to small, specialized firms whose narrower product lines may let them be more effective in deploying technical, marketing, and financial resources. Barriers
to entry in our businesses generally are low and software products can be distributed broadly and quickly at relatively low cost. Many of the areas in which we compete evolve rapidly with changing and disruptive technologies, shifting user needs,
and frequent introductions of new products and services. Our ability to remain competitive depends on our success in making innovative products that appeal to businesses and consumers. 
Competition among platforms, ecosystems, and devices.An important element of our business model has been to create
platform-based ecosystems on which many participants can build diverse solutions. A well-established ecosystem creates beneficial network effects among users, application developers and the platform provider that can accelerate growth. Establishing
significant scale in the marketplace is necessary to achieve and maintain competitive margins. The strategic importance of a vibrant ecosystem increases as we launch the Windows 8 operating system, Surface devices, and associated cloud-based
services. We face significant competition from firms that provide competing platforms, applications and services.  
 



 14 


Table of Contents


PART I  Item 1A  
Business model competition.Companies compete with us based on a
growing variety of business models.  
 
 
 The competitive pressures described above may result in decreased sales volumes, price reductions,
and/or increased operating costs, such as for marketing and sales incentives. This may lead to lower revenue, gross margins, and operating income.  Our increasing focus on devices and services presents execution and competitive risks.A growing part of our strategy involves cloud-based services used with smart client devices. Our
competitors are rapidly developing and deploying cloud-based services for consumers and business customers. Pricing and delivery models are evolving. Devices and form factors influence how users access services in the cloud and in some cases the
users choice of which suite of cloud-based services to use. We are devoting significant resources to develop and deploy our own competing cloud-based software plus services strategies. While we believe our expertise, investments in
infrastructure, and the breadth of our cloud-based services provide us with a strong foundation to compete, it is uncertain whether our strategies will attract the users or generate the revenue required to be successful. In addition to software
development costs, we are incurring costs to build and maintain infrastructure to support cloud computing services. These costs may reduce the operating margins we have previously achieved. Whether we are successful in this new business model
depends on our execution in a number of areas, including:  


 


 We make significant investments in new products and services that may not be profitable.We will continue
to make significant investments in research, development, and marketing for existing products, services, and technologies, including the Windows operating system, the Microsoft Office system, Bing, Windows Phone, Windows Server, the Windows Store,
the Windows Azure Services platform, Office 365, other cloud-based services offerings, and the Xbox 360 entertainment platform. We will also continue to invest in new software and hardware products, services, and technologies, such as the Surface
line of Microsoft-designed and manufactured devices announced in June 2012. Investments in new technology are speculative. Commercial success depends on many factors, including innovativeness, developer support, and effective distribution and
marketing. If customers do not perceive our latest offerings as providing significant new functionality or other value, they may reduce their purchases of new software products or upgrades, unfavorably impacting revenue. We may not achieve
significant revenue from new product and service investments for a number of years, if at all. Moreover, new products and services may not be profitable, and even if they are profitable, operating margins for new products and businesses may not be
as high as the margins we have experienced historically. 
 15 


Table of Contents


PART I  Item 1A  
In fall 2012, we are launching Windows8, a major new release of our PC operating system that
seeks to deliver a unique user experience through well-integrated software, hardware, and services. Its success depends on a number of factors including the extent to which customers embrace its new user interface and functionality, successfully
coordinating with our OEM partners in releasing a variety of hardware devices that take advantage of its features, and attracting developers at scale to ensure a competitive array of quality applications. We expect to incur substantial marketing
costs in launching Window 8 and associated services and devices, which may reduce our operating margins.  We may not be able to
adequately protect our intellectual property rights.Protecting our global intellectual property rights and combating unlicensed copying and use of software and other intellectual property is difficult. While piracy
adversely affects U.S. revenue, the impact on revenue from outside the U.S. is more significant, particularly in countries where laws are less protective of intellectual property rights. As a result, our revenue in these markets may grow slower than
the underlying PC market. Similarly, the absence of harmonized patent laws makes it more difficult to ensure consistent respect for patent rights. Throughout the world, we actively educate consumers about the benefits of licensing genuine products
and obtaining indemnification benefits for intellectual property risks, and we educate lawmakers about the advantages of a business climate where intellectual property rights are protected. However, continued educational and enforcement efforts may
fail to enhance revenue. Reductions in the legal protection for software intellectual property rights could adversely affect revenue. 
Third parties may claim we infringe their intellectual property rights.From time to time, we receive notices from
others claiming we infringe their intellectual property rights. The number of these claims may grow because of constant technological change in the segments in which we compete, the extensive patent coverage of existing technologies, and the rapid
rate of issuance of new patents. To resolve these claims we may enter into royalty and licensing agreements on terms that are less favorable than currently available, stop selling or redesign affected products, or pay damages to satisfy
indemnification commitments with our customers. These outcomes may cause operating margins to decline. In addition to money damages, in some jurisdictions plaintiffs can seek injunctive relief that may limit or prevent importing, marketing, and
selling our products that have infringing technologies. In some countries, such as Germany, an injunction can be issued before the parties have fully litigated the validity of the underlying patents. We have made and expect to continue making
significant expenditures to settle claims related to the use of technology and intellectual property rights and to procure intellectual property rights as part of our strategy to manage this risk. 
We may not be able to protect our source code from copying if there is an unauthorized disclosure of source
code.Source code, the detailed program commands for our operating systems and other software programs, is critical to our business. Although we license portions of our application and operating system source code to a
number of licensees, we take significant measures to protect the secrecy of large portions of our source code. If an unauthorized disclosure of a significant portion of our source code occurs, we could potentially lose future trade secret protection
for that source code. This could make it easier for third parties to compete with our products by copying functionality, which could adversely affect our revenue and operating margins. Unauthorized disclosure of source code also could increase the
security risks described in the next paragraph.  Cyber-attacks and security vulnerabilities could lead to reduced revenue, increased costs, liability
claims, or harm to our competitive position. Security of Microsofts information
technology.Maintaining the security of computers and computer networks is paramount for us and our customers. Threats to information technology (IT) security can take a variety of forms. Hackers develop and
deploy viruses, worms, and other malicious software programs that attack our products and services and gain access to our networks and data centers. Groups of hackers may also act in a coordinated manner to launch distributed denial of service
attacks, or other coordinated attacks. Sophisticated organizations or individuals may launch targeted attacks using novel methods to gain access to computers running our software. These threats may result in breaches of our network or data security,
disruptions of our internal systems and business applications, impairment of our ability to provide services to our customers, product development delays, harm to our competitive position from the compromise of confidential business information, or
other negative impacts on our business. 
 16 


Table of Contents


PART I  Item 1A  
In addition, our internal IT environment continues to evolve. Often we are early adopters of new
devices and technologies. We embrace new ways of sharing data and communicating internally and with partners and customers using methods such as social networking and other consumer-oriented technologies. These practices can enhance efficiency and
business insight, but they also present risks that our business policies and internal security controls may not keep pace with the speed of these changes.  Security of our customers products and services.Security threats are a particular challenge to companies like us whose business is technology products and services. The threats
to our own IT infrastructure also affect our customers. Customers using our cloud services rely on the security of our infrastructure to ensure the reliability of our services and the protection of their data. Hackers tend to focus their efforts on
the most popular operating systems, programs, and services, including many of ours, and we expect them to continue to do so. The security of our products and services is an important consideration in our customers purchasing decisions.
 We devote significant resources to defend against security threats, both to our internal IT systems and those of our customers. These
include:  
 
 


 




 The cost of these steps could reduce our operating margins. Despite these efforts, actual or perceived security
vulnerabilities in our products and services could cause significant reputational harm and lead some customers to reduce or delay future purchases of products or subscriptions to services, or to use competing products. Customers may also increase
their expenditures on protecting their existing computer systems from attack, which could delay adoption of additional products or services. Any of these actions by customers could adversely affect our revenue. Actual or perceived vulnerabilities
may lead to claims against us. Although our license agreements typically contain provisions that eliminate or limit our exposure to such liability, there is no assurance these provisions will withstand all legal challenges. Legislative or regulatory
action may increase the costs to develop or implement our products and services.  Improper disclosure of personal data could result
in liability and harm our reputation.As we continue to execute our strategy of increasing the number and scale of our cloud-based offerings, we store and process increasingly large amounts of personally identifiable
information of our customers. At the same time, the continued occurrence of high-profile data breaches provides evidence of an external environment increasingly hostile to information security. This environment demands that we continuously improve
our design and coordination of security controls across our business groups and geographies. Despite these efforts, it is possible our security controls over personal data, our training of employees and vendors on data security, and other practices
we follow may not prevent the improper disclosure of personally identifiable information that we or our vendors store and manage. Improper disclosure of this information could harm our reputation, lead to legal exposure to customers, or subject us
to liability under laws that protect personal data, resulting in increased costs or loss of revenue. Our software products and services also enable our customers to store and process personal data on premise or, increasingly, in a cloud-based
environment we host. We believe consumers using our email, messaging, storage, sharing, and social networking services will increasingly want efficient, centralized methods of choosing their privacy preferences and controlling their data.
Perceptions that our products or services do not adequately protect the 
 17 


Table of Contents


PART I  Item 1A  

privacy of personal information could inhibit sales of our products or services, and could constrain consumer and business adoption of our cloud-based solutions. 
We may experience outages, data losses, and disruptions of our online services if we fail to maintain an adequate operations
infrastructure.Our increasing user traffic and complexity of our products and services demand more computing power. We have spent and expect to continue to spend substantial amounts to purchase or lease data centers and
equipment and to upgrade our technology and network infrastructure to handle increased traffic on our websites and in our data centers, and to introduce new products and services and support existing services such as Bing, Exchange Online, Office
365, SharePoint Online, Skype, Xbox LIVE, Windows Azure, Windows Live, and Microsoft Office Web Apps. We also are growing our business of providing a platform and back-end hosting for services provided by third-party businesses to their end
customers. Maintaining and expanding this infrastructure is expensive and complex. Inefficiencies or operational failures, including temporary or permanent loss of customer data, could diminish the quality of our products, services, and user
experience resulting in contractual liability, claims by customers and other third parties, damage to our reputation and loss of current and potential users, subscribers, and advertisers, each of which may harm our operating results and financial
condition.  We are subject to government litigation and regulatory activity that affects how we design and market our
products.As a leading global software maker, we receive close scrutiny from government agencies under U.S. and foreign competition laws. Some jurisdictions also provide private rights of action for competitors or
consumers to assert claims of anti-competitive conduct. For example, we have been involved in the following actions.  Lawsuits brought
by the U.S. Department of Justice, 18 states, and the District of Columbia in two separate actions were resolved through a Consent Decree that took effect in 2001 and a Final Judgment entered in 2002. These proceedings imposed various constraints on
our Windows operating system businesses. These constraints included limits on certain contracting practices, mandated disclosure of certain software program interfaces and protocols, and rights for computer manufacturers to limit the visibility of
certain Windows features in new PCs. Although the Consent Decree and Final Judgment expired in May 2011, we expect that federal and state antitrust authorities will continue to closely scrutinize our business. 
The European Commission closely scrutinizes the design of high-volume Microsoft products and the terms on which we make certain technologies used
in these products, such as file formats, programming interfaces, and protocols, available to other companies. In 2004, the Commission ordered us to create new versions of Windows that do not include certain multimedia technologies and to provide our
competitors with specifications for how to implement certain proprietary Windows communications protocols in their own products. In 2009, the Commission accepted a set of commitments offered by Microsoft to address the Commissions concerns
relating to competition in Web browsing software. The Commissions impact on product design may limit our ability to innovate in Windows or other products in the future, diminish the developer appeal of the Windows platform, and increase our
product development costs. The availability of licenses related to protocols and file formats may enable competitors to develop software products that better mimic the functionality of our own products which could result in decreased sales of
ourproducts.  Government regulatory actions and court decisions such as these may hinder our ability to provide the benefits of
our software to consumers and businesses, thereby reducing the attractiveness of our products and the revenue that come from them. New actions could be initiated at any time, either by these or other governments or private claimants, including with
respect to new versions of Windows or other Microsoft products. The outcome of such actions, or steps taken to avoid them, could adversely affect us in a variety of ways, including: 



 

 18 


Table of Contents


PART I  Item 1A  
 Our
products and online services offerings, including new technologies we develop or acquire such as Skype, are subject to government regulation in some jurisdictions, including in areas of user privacy, telecommunications, data protection, and online
content. The application of these laws and regulations to our business is often unclear, subject to change over time, and sometimes may conflict from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. Additionally these laws and governments approach to their
enforcement, as well as our products and services, are continuing to evolve. Compliance with these types of regulation may involve significant costs or require changes in products or business practices that result in reduced revenue. Noncompliance
could result in penalties being imposed on us or orders that we stop the alleged noncompliant activity.  Our business depends on our
ability to attract and retain talented employees.Our business is based on successfully attracting and retaining talented employees. The market for highly skilled workers and leaders in our industry is extremely
competitive. We are limited in our ability to recruit internationally by restrictive domestic immigration laws. If we are less successful in our recruiting efforts, or if we are unable to retain key employees, our ability to develop and deliver
successful products and services may be adversely affected. Effective succession planning is also important to our long-term success. Failure to ensure effective transfer of knowledge and smooth transitions involving key employees could hinder our
strategic planning and execution.  Delays in product development schedules may adversely affect our
revenue.The development of software products is a complex and time-consuming process. New products and enhancements to existing products can require long development and testing periods. Our increasing focus on
cloud-based software plus services also presents new and complex development issues. Significant delays in new product or service releases or significant problems in creating new products or services could adversely affect our revenue. 
We make significant investments in new products and services that may not be profitable.Our growth depends on our
ability to create new and higher value product and service offerings. We will continue to make significant investments in research, development, and marketing for existing products, services, and technologies, including the Windows PC operating
system, the Microsoft Office system, Bing, Windows Phone, Windows Server, the Windows Store, the Windows Azure Services platform, Office 365, other cloud-based services offerings, and the Xbox 360 entertainment platform. In June 2012, we announced
the Surface line of Microsoft-designed and manufactured devices. We will also continue to invest in new software and hardware products, services, and technologies. Investments in new technology are speculative. Commercial success depends on many
factors, including innovativeness, developer support, and effective distribution and marketing. Our degree of success with Windows Phone, for example, will impact our ability to grow our share of the smartphone operating system market. It will also
be an important factor in supporting our strategy of delivering value to end users seamlessly over a variety of form factors including PC, phone, and TV device classes. If customers do not perceive our latest offerings as providing significant new
functionality or other value, they may reduce their purchases of new software products or upgrades, unfavorably impacting revenue. We may not achieve significant revenue from new product and service investments for a number of years, if at all.
Moreover, new products and services may not be profitable, and even if they are profitable, operating margins for new products and businesses may not be as high as the margins we have experienced historically. 
Adverse economic conditions may harm our business.Unfavorable changes in economic conditions, including inflation,
recession, or other changes in economic conditions, may result in lower information technology spending and adversely affect our revenue. If demand for PCs, servers, and other computing devices declines, or consumer or business spending for those
products declines, our revenue will be adversely affected. Our product distribution system also relies on an extensive partner and retail network. Original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) building devices that run our software have also
been a significant means of distribution. The impact of economic conditions on our partners, such as the bankruptcy of a major distributor, OEM, or retailer, could result in sales channel disruption. Challenging economic conditions also may impair
the ability of our customers to pay for products and 
 19 


Table of Contents


PART I  Item 1A  

services they have purchased. As a result, allowances for doubtful accounts and write-offs of accounts receivable may increase. We maintain an investment portfolio of various holdings, types, and
maturities. These investments are subject to general credit, liquidity, market, and interest rate risks, which may be exacerbated by unusual events that have affected global financial markets. A significant part of our investment portfolio consists
of U.S. government securities. If global credit and equity markets experience prolonged periods of decline, or if there is a downgrade of U.S. government debt, our investment portfolio may be adversely impacted and we could determine that more of
our investments have experienced an other-than-temporary decline in fair value, requiring impairment charges that could adversely affect our financial results.  We have claims and lawsuits against us that may result in adverse outcomes.We are subject to a variety of claims and lawsuits. Adverse outcomes in some or all of these claims may
result in significant monetary damages or injunctive relief that could adversely affect our ability to conduct our business. Although management currently believes resolving all of these matters, individually or in the aggregate, will not have a
material adverse impact on our financial statements, the litigation and other claims are subject to inherent uncertainties and managements view of these matters may change in the future. A material adverse impact on our financial statements
also could occur for the period in which the effect of an unfavorable final outcome becomes probable and reasonably estimable.  We
may have additional tax liabilities.We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and many foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. In the ordinary
course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. We regularly are under audit by tax authorities. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of
tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. The results of an audit or litigation could have a material effect on our financial statements in the period or periods for
which that determination is made.  We earn a significant amount of our operating income from outside the U.S., and any repatriation of
funds currently held in foreign jurisdictions to the U.S. may result in higher effective tax rates for the company. In addition, there have been proposals to change U.S. tax laws that would significantly impact how U.S. multinational corporations
are taxed on foreign earnings. Although we cannot predict whether or in what form any proposed legislation may pass, if enacted it could have a material adverse impact on our tax expense and cash flow. 
Our hardware and software products may experience quality or supply problems.Our vertically-integrated hardware
products such as the Xbox 360 console, Surface devices, and other hardware devices we design and market are highly complex and can have defects in design, manufacture, or associated software. We could incur significant expenses, lost revenue, and
reputational harm if we fail to detect or effectively address such issues through design, testing, or warranty repairs. We obtain some components of our hardware devices from sole suppliers. Our competitors use some of the same suppliers and their
demand for hardware components can affect the amount of capacity available to us. If a component delivery from a sole-source supplier is delayed or becomes unavailable or industry shortages occur, we may be unable to obtain timely replacement
supplies, resulting in reduced sales. Either component shortages or excess or obsolete inventory may increase our cost of revenue. Xbox 360 consoles are assembled in Asia; disruptions in the supply chain may result in console shortages that would
affect our revenue and operating margins. These same risks would apply to any other vertically-integrated hardware and software products we may offer.  Our stand-alone software products may also experience quality or reliability problems. The highly sophisticated software products we develop may contain bugs and other defects that interfere with their intended
operation. Any defects we do not detect and fix in pre-release testing could result in reduced sales and revenue, damage to our reputation, repair or remediation costs, delays in the release of new products or versions, or legal liability. Although
our license agreements typically contain provisions that eliminate or limit our exposure to liability, there is no assurance these provisions will withstand legal challenge.  If our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets become impaired we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings.We acquire other companies and may not realize all the
economic benefit from those acquisitions, which could result in an impairment of goodwill or intangibles. Under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (U.S. GAAP), we review our amortizable intangible assets for
impairment when 
 20 


Table of Contents


PART I  Item 1A  

events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. We test goodwill for impairment at least annually. Factors that may be considered a change in circumstances,
indicating that the carrying value of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets may not be recoverable, include a decline in stock price and market capitalization, reduced future cash flow estimates, and slower growth rates in our industry. We
may be required to record a significant charge in our financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets is determined, negatively impacting our results of operations. For example, in July
2012, we announced a $6.2 billion charge for the impairment of goodwill in our Online Services Division business segment.  We operate
a global business that exposes us to additional risks.We operate in over 100 countries and a significant part of our revenue comes from international sales. Pressure to make our pricing structure uniform might require
that we reduce the sales price of our software in the U.S. and other countries. Operations outside the U.S. may be affected by changes in trade protection laws, policies and measures, and other regulatory requirements affecting trade and investment,
including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and local laws prohibiting corrupt payments by our employees, vendors, or agents. Emerging markets are a significant focus of our international growth strategy. The developing nature of these markets
presents a number of risks. Deterioration of social, political, labor, or economic conditions in a specific country or region, such as current uncertainties relating to European sovereign and other debt, and difficulties in staffing and managing
foreign operations, may also adversely affect our operations or financial results. Although we hedge a portion of our international currency exposure, significant fluctuations in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and foreign currencies may
adversely affect our net revenue.  Catastrophic events or geo-political conditions may disrupt our
business.A disruption or failure of our systems or operations because of a major earthquake, weather event, cyber-attack, terrorist attack, or other catastrophic event could cause delays in completing sales, providing
services, or performing other mission-critical functions. Our corporate headquarters, a significant portion of our research and development activities, and certain other critical business operations are located in the Seattle, Washington area, and
we have other business operations in the Silicon Valley area of California, both of which are near major earthquake faults. A catastrophic event that results in the destruction or disruption of any of our critical business or information technology
systems could harm our ability to conduct normal business operations. Our move toward providing our customers with more services and solutions in the cloud puts a premium on the resilience of our systems and strength of our business continuity
management plans, and magnifies the potential impact of prolonged service outages on our operating results. Abrupt political change, terrorist activity, and armed conflict pose a risk of general economic disruption in affected countries, which may
increase our operating costs. These conditions also may add uncertainty to the timing and budget for technology investment decisions by our customers, and may result in supply chain disruptions for hardware manufacturers, either of which may
adversely affect our revenue. The long-term effects of climate change on the global economy in general or the information technology industry in particular are unclear. Environmental regulations or changes in the supply, demand or available sources
of energy may affect the availability or cost of goods and services, including natural resources, necessary to run our business. Changes in weather where we operate may increase the costs of powering and cooling computer hardware we use to develop
software and provide cloud-based services. New regulations may require us to find alternative compliant and cost-effective methods of distributing our products and services.  Acquisitions, joint ventures and strategic alliances may have an adverse effect on our business.We expect to continue making acquisitions or entering into joint ventures and strategic
alliances as part of our long-term business strategy. These transactions involve significant challenges and risks including that the transaction does not advance our business strategy, that we do not realize a satisfactory return on our investment,
or that we experience difficulty integrating new employees, business systems, and technology, or diversion of managements attention from our other businesses. Our recent acquisition of Skype, for example, provides opportunities to enhance our
existing products. The success of our integration of Skype will depend in part on our ability to provide compelling experiences that distinguish us from our competitors in both consumer and business markets. It may take longer than expected to
realize the full benefits from these transactions, such as increased revenue, enhanced efficiencies, or market share, or those benefits may ultimately be smaller than anticipated or may not be realized. These events could harm our operating results
or financial condition. 
 21 


Table of Contents


PART I  Item 1B, 2, 3, 4  
ITEM1B.UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS 
We have received no written comments regarding our periodic or current reports from the staff of the SEC that were issued 180 days or more
preceding the end of our fiscal year 2012 that remain unresolved.  ITEM2. PROPERTIES 
Our corporate offices consist of approximately 15million square feet of office space located in King County, Washington: 10million
square feet of owned space situated on approximately 500 acres of land we own at our corporate campus in Redmond, Washington and approximately five million square feet of space we lease. We own approximately threemillion additional square feet
of office and data center space domestically (outside of the Puget Sound corporate campus) and lease many sites domestically totaling approximately fourmillion square feet of office and data center space. 
We occupy many sites internationally, totaling approximately three million square feet that is owned and approximately ninemillion square
feet that is leased. International facilities that we own include our development center in Hyderabad, India; our European operations center in Dublin, Ireland; a research and development campus in Beijing, China; and facilities in Reading, UK. The
largest leased office spaces include the following locations: Beijing and Shanghai, China; Tokyo, Japan; Unterschleissheim, Germany; Paris, France; Dublin, Ireland; Bangalore, India; Reading, UK; Vedbaek, Denmark; and Mississauga, Canada. In
addition to the above locations, we have a disk duplication and digital distribution facility in Humacao, Puerto Rico, a facility in Singapore for our Asia Pacific operations center and regional headquarters, and various product development
facilities, both domestically and internationally, as described in the Research and Development section of Item1 of this Form 10-K.  Our facilities are fully used for current operations of all segments, and suitable additional spaces are available to accommodate expansion needs. We have a development agreement with the City of Redmond under
which we may currently develop approximately 1.6million square feet of additional facilities at our corporate campus in Redmond, Washington. In addition, we own 63 acres of undeveloped land in Issaquah, Washington, that can accommodate
approximately onemillion square feet of office space.  ITEM3.LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
 See Note 17  Contingencies of the Notes to Financial Statements (Part II, Item8 of this Form 10-K) for information
regarding legal proceedings in which we are involved.  ITEM4.MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES
 Not applicable. 
 22 


Table of Contents


PART II  Item 5, 6  
PART II  ITEM5.MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS, AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES 
MARKET AND STOCKHOLDERS  Our
common stock is traded on the NASDAQ Stock Market under the symbol MSFT. On July18, 2012, there were 128,992 registered holders of record of our common stock. The high and low common stock sales prices per share were as follows: 

 DIVIDENDS AND SHARE REPURCHASES  See Note 18  Stockholders Equity of the Notes to Financial Statements (Part II, Item8 of this Form 10-K) for information regarding dividends and share repurchases by quarter. Following are our
monthly stock repurchases for the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2012, all of which were purchased as part of publicly announced plans or programs:  
 The repurchases were made using cash resources and occurred in the open market. 
ITEM6.SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA  FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS  
  


 23 


Table of Contents


PART II  Item 7  
ITEM7.MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  The following Managements Discussion and Analysis (MD&A) is
intended to help the reader understand the results of operations and financial condition of Microsoft Corporation. MD&A is provided as a supplement to, and should be read in conjunction with, our financial statements and the accompanying Notes
to Financial Statements.  OVERVIEW AND OUTLOOK  Microsoft is a technology leader focused on helping people and businesses throughout the world realize their full potential. We create technology that transforms the way people work, play, and communicate across a
wide range of computing devices.  We generate revenue by developing, licensing, and supporting a wide range of software products and
services, including cloud-based services, by designing and selling hardware, and by delivering relevant online advertising to a global audience. Our most significant expenses are related to compensating employees, designing, manufacturing,
marketing, and selling our products and services, and income taxes.  Industry Trends 
Our industry is dynamic and highly competitive, with frequent changes in both technologies and business models. Each industry shift is an
opportunity to conceive new products, new technologies, or new ideas that can further transform the industry and our business. At Microsoft, we push the boundaries of what is possible through a broad range of research and development activities that
seek to anticipate the changing demands of customers, industry trends, and competitive forces.  Key Opportunities and Investments 
Based on our assessment of key technology trends and our broad focus on long-term research and development of new products and services, we see
significant opportunities to drive future growth.  Smart connected devices 
The price per unit of processing, storage, and networks continues to decline while at the same time devices increase in capability. As a result,
the capabilities and accessibility of PCs, tablets, phones, televisions, and other devices powered by rich software platforms and applications continue to grow. At the same time, the information and services people use increasingly span multiple
devices enabled by the adoption of cloud computing.  For example, the delivery and quality of unified entertainment experiences across
devices is undergoing dramatic evolution. These rich media experiences include books, magazines, newspapers, games, movies, music, television, and social interactions with family, friends, and colleagues. At Microsoft, our approach is to simplify
and increase the accessibility of these entertainment experiences to broaden market penetration of our software, hardware, and services. 
Additionally, web content and social connections have increased tremendously as people spend more time online, while discoverability and
accessibility has been transforming from direct navigation and document links. There is significant opportunity to deliver products and services that help users make faster, better decisions and complete tasks more simply when using their devices.
Our approach is to use machine learning to understand user intent, and differentiate our products and services by focusing on the integration of speech, visual, social, and other elements to simplify peoples interaction with the Internet.
 We invest significant resources in enabling and developing smart connected devices that offer a unified, seamless experience across a
common platform. Whether a PC, Windows Phone, Xbox 360, or the newly announced Surface 
 24 


Table of Contents


PART II  Item 7  

devices, our goal is to provide users with a consistent and compelling experience through a common user interface and our services such as SkyDrive, Xbox LIVE, Bing, Skype, and our Windows Azure
cloud platform.  Communications and productivity  The ubiquity of computing and software tools has transformed personal and business productivity. Over the last decade, Microsoft redefined software productivity beyond the rich Office client on the PC. Productivity
scenarios now encompass unified communications such as instant messaging, voice, and video communications, business intelligence, collaboration, content management, and relationship management, all of which are increasingly available through
server-side applications. These server applications can be hosted in the cloud by the customer, a partner, or by Microsoft. There are significant opportunities to bring to life productivity and communication scenarios across PCs, mobile, and other
devices that connect to services. We invest significant resources in our products and services that make this possible  Dynamics, Exchange, Lync, Skype, Office, Office 365, SharePoint, Windows Live, and Windows Phone. 
Cloud computing transforming the data center and information technology  Cloud-based solutions provide customers with software, services, and content over the Internet by way of shared computing resources located in centralized data centers. Computing is undergoing a long-term shift
from client/server to the cloud, a shift similar in importance and impact to the transition from mainframe to client/server. The shift to the cloud is driven by three important economies of scale: larger data centers can deploy computational
resources at significantly lower cost per unit than smaller ones; larger data centers can coordinate and aggregate diverse customer, geographic, and application demand patterns improving the utilization of computing, storage, and network resources;
and multi-tenancy lowers application maintenance labor costs for large public clouds. Because of the improved economics, the cloud offers unique levels of elasticity and agility that enables new solutions and applications. For businesses of all
sizes, the cloud creates the opportunity to focus on innovation while leaving non-differentiating activities to reliable and cost-effective providers. We are devoting significant resources to developing cloud infrastructure, platforms, and
applications including offerings such as Microsoft Dynamics Online, Microsoft SQL Azure, Office 365, Windows Azure, Windows Intune, and Windows Server. 
Economic Conditions, Challenges, and Risks 
As discussed above, our industry is dynamic and highly competitive. We must anticipate changes in technology and business models. Our model for
growth is based on our ability to initiate and embrace disruptive technology trends, to enter new markets, both in terms of geographies and product areas, and to drive broad adoption of the products and services we develop and market. 
At Microsoft, we prioritize our investments among the highest long-term growth opportunities. These investments require significant resources and
are multi-year in nature. The products and services we bring to market may be developed internally, brought to market as part of a partnership or alliance, or through acquisition. 
Our success is highly dependent on our ability to attract and retain qualified employees. We hire a mix of university and industry talent
worldwide. Microsoft competes for talented individuals worldwide by offering broad customer reach, scale in resources, and competitive compensation.  Demand for our software, services, and hardware has a strong correlation to global macroeconomic factors. The current macroeconomic factors remain dynamic. See a discussion of these factors and other risks under
Risk Factors (Part II, Item1A. of this Form 10-K).  Seasonality  Our revenue historically has fluctuated quarterly and has generally been the highest in the second quarter of our fiscal year due to corporate calendar year-end spending trends in our major markets and holiday
season spending 
 25 


Table of Contents


PART II  Item 7  

by consumers. Our Entertainment and Devices Division is particularly seasonal as its products are aimed at the consumer market and are in highest demand during the holiday shopping season.
Typically, the Entertainment and Devices Division has generated approximately 40% of its yearly segment revenue in our second fiscal quarter. 
Unearned Revenue  Quarterly and annual
revenue may be impacted by the deferral of revenue. See the discussions below regarding sales of earlier versions of the Microsoft Office system with a guarantee to be upgraded to the newest version of the Microsoft Office system at minimal or no
cost (the Office Deferral), sales of Windows Vista with a guarantee to be upgraded to Windows 7 at minimal or no cost (the Windows7 Deferral), and sales of Windows 7 with an option to upgrade to Windows 8 Pro at a
discounted price (the Windows Upgrade Offer).  RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
Summary  
  Fiscal year 2012 compared with fiscal year 2011 
Revenue increased primarily due to strong sales of Server and Tools products and services and the 2010 Microsoft Office system, offset in part by
the decline in Windows operating system revenue primarily due to the deferral of $540 million of revenue relating to the Windows Upgrade Offer. Revenue in fiscal year 2012 also included Skype revenue from the date of acquisition. 
Operating income decreased reflecting a goodwill impairment charge of $6.2 billion related to our OSD business segment. Other key changes in
operating expenses were:  
 


 Headcount-related expenses were higher across the company
reflecting a 4% increase in headcount from June30, 2011 and changes in our employee compensation program.  Diluted earnings per
share were negatively impacted by the non-tax deductible goodwill impairment charge, which decreased diluted earnings per share by $0.73. Prior year net income and diluted earnings per share reflected a partial settlement with the U.S. Internal
Revenue Service (I.R.S.) and higher other income. The partial settlement with the I.R.S. added $461 million to net income and $0.05 to diluted earnings per share in the prior year. 
Fiscal year 2011 compared with fiscal year 2010  Revenue increased primarily due to strong sales of the Xbox 360 entertainment platform, the 2010 Microsoft Office system, and Server and Tools products, offset in part by lower Windows revenue. Revenue also
increased due to 
 26 


Table of Contents


PART II  Item 7  

the $254 million Office Deferral in fiscal year 2010 and the subsequent recognition of the Office Deferral during fiscal year 2011. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates had an insignificant
impact on revenue.  Operating income increased reflecting the change in revenue, offset in part by higher operating expenses. Key
changes in operating expenses were:  
 
 


 Diluted
earnings per share increased, reflecting higher revenue, repurchases of common stock, and lower income tax expense, offset in part by higher operating expenses.  SEGMENT PRODUCT REVENUE/OPERATING INCOME (LOSS)  The revenue and operating income (loss)
amounts in this section are presented on a basis consistent with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. (U.S. GAAP) and include certain reconciling items attributable to each of the segments. Segment information appearing
in Note 21  Segment Information and Geographic Data of the Notes to Financial Statements (Part II, Item8 of this Form 10-K) is presented on a basis consistent with our current internal management reporting. Certain corporate-level
activity has been excluded from segment operating results and is analyzed separately. We have recast certain prior period amounts within this MD&A to conform to the way we internally managed and monitored segment performance during the current
fiscal year, including moving Forefront Protection for Office, an anti-malware solution, from Server and Tools to the Microsoft Business Division. 
Windows& Windows Live Division  
  Windows& Windows Live Division (Windows
Division) develops and markets PC operating systems, related software and online services, and PC hardware products. This collection of software, hardware, and services is designed to simplify everyday tasks through seamless operations across
the users hardware and software and efficient browsing capabilities. Windows Division offerings consist of the Windows operating system, software and services through Windows Live, and Microsoft PC hardware products. 
Windows Division revenue is largely correlated to the PC market worldwide, as approximately 75% of total Windows Division revenue comes from
Windows operating system software purchased by original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) which they pre-install on equipment they sell. The remaining approximately 25% of Windows Division revenue is generated by commercial and retail sales
of Windows and PC hardware products and online advertising from Windows Live. 
 27 


Table of Contents


PART II  Item 7  
Fiscal year 2012 compared with fiscal year 2011 
Windows Division revenue reflected relative performance in PC market segments. We estimate that sales of PCs to businesses grew approximately 4%
and sales of PCs to consumers decreased 1%. Excluding a decline in sales of netbooks, we estimate that sales of PCs to consumers grew approximately 5%. Taken together, the total PC market increased an estimated 0% to 2%. Relative to PC market
growth, Windows Division revenue was negatively impacted by higher growth in emerging markets, where average selling prices are lower than developed markets, and the deferral of $540 million of revenue relating to the Windows Upgrade Offer.
 Windows Division operating income decreased, due mainly to lower revenue and a $163 million or 10% increase in research and development
expenses, primarily associated with the Windows 8 operating system.  Fiscal year 2011 compared with fiscal year 2010 
Windows Division revenue reflected relative performance in PC market segments. We estimate that sales of PCs to businesses grew approximately 11%
this year and sales of PCs to consumers declined approximately 1%. The decline in consumer PC sales included an approximately 32% decline in the sales of netbooks. Taken together, the total PC market increased an estimated 2% to 4%. Revenue was
negatively impacted by the effect of higher growth in emerging markets, where average selling prices are lower, relative to developed markets, and by lower recognition of previously deferred Windows XP revenue. Considering the impact of the Windows
7 launch in the prior year, including $273 million of revenue recognized related to the Windows 7 Deferral, we estimate that Windows Division revenue was in line with the PC market. 
Windows Division operating income decreased as a result of decreased revenue and higher sales and marketing expenses. Sales and marketing expenses
increased $182 million or 6%, reflecting increased advertising of Windows and Windows Live.  Server and Tools 

  Server and Tools develops and markets technology and
related services that enable information technology professionals and their systems to be more productive and efficient. Server and Tools product and service offerings include Windows Server, Microsoft SQL Server, Windows Azure, Visual Studio,
System Center products, Windows Embedded device platforms, and Enterprise Services. Enterprise Services comprise Premier product support services and Microsoft Consulting Services. We also offer developer tools, training, and certification.
Approximately 55% of Server and Tools revenue comes primarily from multi-year volume licensing agreements, approximately 25% is purchased through transactional volume licensing programs, retail packaged product and licenses sold to OEMs, and the
remainder comes from Enterprise Services.  Fiscal year 2012 compared with fiscal year 2011 
Server and Tools revenue increased in both product sales and Enterprise Services. Product revenue increased $1.4 billion or 11%, driven primarily
by growth in SQL Server, Windows Server, and System Center, reflecting continued adoption of the Windows platform. Enterprise Services revenue grew $595 million or 18%, due to growth in both Premier product support and consulting services.
 Server and Tools operating income increased primarily due to revenue growth, offset in part by higher costs of providing products and
services and increased sales and marketing expenses. Cost of revenue increased $682 million or 22%, primarily reflecting higher Enterprise Services headcount-related costs. Sales and marketing expenses grew $155 million or 4%, reflecting increased
corporate marketing activities. 
 28 


Table of Contents


PART II  Item 7  
Fiscal year 2011 compared with fiscal year 2010 
Server and Tools revenue increased in both product sales and Enterprise Services. Product revenue increased $1.2 billion or 10%, driven primarily
by growth in Windows Server, SQL Server, and System Center, reflecting continued adoption of the Windows platform. Enterprise Services revenue grew $353 million or 12%, due to growth in both Premier product support and consulting services.
 Server and Tools operating income increased due to revenue growth, offset in part by higher operating expenses. Cost of revenue
increased $377 million or 13%, primarily reflecting a $323 million increase in expenses from providing Enterprise Services. Sales and marketing expenses increased $270 million or 7%, reflecting increased fees paid to third-party enterprise software
advisors and increased corporate marketing activities.  Online Services Division 

  

Online Services Division (OSD) develops and markets information and content designed to help people simplify tasks and make more
informed decisions online, and that help advertisers connect with audiences. OSD offerings include Bing, MSN, adCenter, and advertiser tools. Bing and MSN generate revenue through the sale of search and display advertising, accounting for nearly all
of OSDs annual revenue.  Fiscal year 2012 compared with fiscal year 2011 
Online advertising revenue grew $306 million or 13% to $2.6 billion, reflecting continued growth in search advertising revenue, offset in part by
decreased display advertising revenue. Search revenue grew due to increased revenue per search, increased volumes reflecting general market growth, and share gains in the U.S. According to third-party sources, Bing organic U.S. market share for the
month of June 2012 was approximately 16%, and grew 120 basis points year over year. Bing-powered U.S. market share, including Yahoo! properties, was approximately 26% for the month of June 2012, down 100 basis points year over year. 
OSDs fiscal year 2012 operating loss reflects a goodwill impairment charge of $6.2 billion, which we recorded as a result of our annual
goodwill impairment test in the fourth quarter. The non-cash, non-tax-deductible charge related mainly to goodwill acquired through our 2007 acquisition of aQuantive, Inc. While the search business has been improving, our expectations for future
growth and profitability for OSD are lower than our previous estimates. We do not expect this impairment charge to affect OSDs ongoing business or financial performance.  Excluding the $6.2 billion goodwill impairment charge, OSDs operating loss was reduced by higher revenue and lower sales and marketing expenses and cost of revenue. Sales and marketing expenses decreased $321
million or 29%, due mainly to lower marketing spend. Cost of revenue decreased $213 million, driven by lower Yahoo! reimbursement costs, amortization, and online operating costs.  Fiscal year 2011 compared with fiscal year 2010  OSD revenue increased primarily as a result
of growth in online advertising revenue. Online advertising revenue grew $351 million or 18% to $2.3 billion, reflecting continued growth in search and display advertising revenue, offset in part by decreased third-party advertising revenue. Search
revenue grew due to increased volumes reflecting general market growth, share gains in the U.S., and our Yahoo! alliance, offset in part by decreased revenue per search primarily related to challenges associated with optimizing the adCenter platform
for the new mix and volume 
 29 


Table of Contents


PART II  Item 7  

of traffic from the combined Yahoo! and Bing properties. According to third-party sources, Bing organic U.S. market share for the month of June 2011 was approximately 14%, and grew 170 basis
points year over year. Bing-powered U.S. market share, including Yahoo! properties, was approximately 27% for the month of June 2011. 
OSD operating loss increased due to higher operating expenses, offset in part by increased revenue. Cost of revenue grew $647 million driven by
costs associated with the Yahoo! search agreement and increased traffic acquisition costs. General and administrative expenses decreased $156 million or 58%, due mainly to transition expenses in the prior year associated with the inception of the
Yahoo! Commercial Agreement. Research and development increased $123 million or 11% due to increased headcount-related costs.  Microsoft Business
Division  
  Microsoft Business Division (MBD) develops and
markets software and online services designed to increase personal, team, and organization productivity. MBD offerings include the Microsoft Office system (comprising mainly Office, SharePoint, Exchange, Lync, and Office 365), which generates over
90% of MBD revenue, and Microsoft Dynamics business solutions. We evaluate MBD results based upon the nature of the end user in two primary parts: business revenue, which includes Microsoft Office system revenue generated through volume licensing
agreements and Microsoft Dynamics revenue; and consumer revenue, which includes revenue from retail packaged product sales and OEM revenue.  Fiscal
year 2012 compared with fiscal year 2011  MBD revenue increased primarily reflecting sales of the 2010 Microsoft Office system.
Business revenue increased $1.7billion or 9%, primarily reflecting growth in multi-year volume licensing revenue, licensing of the 2010 Microsoft Office system to transactional business customers, and an 11% increase in Microsoft Dynamics
revenue. Consumer revenue decreased $195 million or 4% due to the recognition of $254 million of revenue in the prior year associated with the Office Deferral. Excluding the fiscal year 2011 impact associated with the Office Deferral, consumer
revenue increased $59 million, driven by increased sales of the 2010 Microsoft Office system.  MBD revenue for the year ended
June30, 2012 included a favorable foreign currency impact of $506 million.  MBD operating income increased, primarily due to
revenue growth, offset in part by higher operating expenses. Cost of revenue increased $258 million or 16%, primarily due to higher online operation and support costs. Research and development expenses increased, due mainly to an increase in
headcount-related costs.  Fiscal year 2011 compared with fiscal year 2010 
MBD revenue increased primarily reflecting sales of the 2010 Microsoft Office system, the $254 million Office Deferral during fiscal year 2010, and
the subsequent recognition of the Office Deferral during fiscal year 2011. Business revenue increased $2.1billion or 14%, reflecting licensing of the 2010 Microsoft Office system to transactional business customers, growth in multi-year volume
licensing revenue, and a 10% increase in Microsoft Dynamics revenue. Consumer revenue increased $1.1 billion or 33%, approximately half of which was attributable to the launch of Office 2010 and half of which was attributable to the Office Deferral
during fiscal year 2010 and subsequent recognition of the Office Deferral during fiscal year 2011. Excluding the impact associated with the Office Deferral, consumer revenue increased $617 million or 17% due to sales of the 2010 Microsoft Office
system.  MBD operating income increased due mainly to revenue growth, offset in part by higher operating expenses. Cost of revenue
increased $328 million or 25%, primarily driven by higher online operation and support costs. Sales and 
 30 


Table of Contents


PART II  Item 7  

marketing expenses increased, primarily driven by an increase in corporate and cross-platform marketing activities. Research and development costs increased, primarily as a result of
capitalization of certain Microsoft Office system software development costs in the prior year.  Entertainment and Devices Division 

  Entertainment and Devices Division (EDD)
develops and markets products and services designed to entertain and connect people. EDD offerings include the Xbox 360 entertainment platform (which includes the Xbox 360 gaming and entertainment console, Kinect for Xbox 360, Xbox 360 video games,
Xbox LIVE, and Xbox 360 accessories), Mediaroom (our Internet protocol television software), Skype, and Windows Phone, including related patent licensing revenue. In November 2010, we released Kinect for Xbox 360. We acquired Skype on
October13, 2011, and its results of operations from that date are reflected in our results discussed below.  Fiscal year 2012 compared with
fiscal year 2011  EDD revenue increased primarily reflecting Skype and Windows Phone revenue, offset in part by lower Xbox 360
platform revenue. Xbox 360 platform revenue decreased $113 million, due mainly to decreased volumes of Kinect for Xbox 360 sold and lower video game revenue, offset in part by higher Xbox LIVE revenue. We shipped 13.0million Xbox 360 consoles
during fiscal year 2012, compared with 13.7million Xbox 360 consoles during fiscal year 2011. Video game revenue decreased due to strong sales of Halo Reach in the prior year. 
EDD operating income decreased reflecting higher operating expenses, offset in part by revenue growth. Cost of revenue grew $900 million or 16%,
primarily due to changes in the mix of products and services sold and payments made to Nokia related to joint strategic initiatives. Research and development expenses increased $356 million or 30%, primarily reflecting higher headcount-related
expenses. Sales and marketing expenses increased $244 million or 28%, primarily reflecting the inclusion of Skype expenses.  Fiscal year 2011
compared with fiscal year 2010  EDD revenue increased primarily reflecting higher Xbox 360 platform revenue. Xbox 360 platform
revenue grew $2.7 billion or 48%, led by increased volumes of Xbox 360 consoles, sales of Kinect for Xbox 360, and higher Xbox LIVE revenue. We shipped 13.7million Xbox 360 consoles during fiscal year 2011, compared with 10.3million Xbox
360 consoles during fiscal year 2010.  EDD operating income increased primarily reflecting revenue growth, offset in part by higher cost
of revenue. Cost of revenue increased $1.8 billion or 49%, primarily reflecting higher volumes of Xbox 360 consoles and Kinect for Xbox 360 sold, and increased royalty costs resulting from increased sales of Xbox LIVE digital content. Research and
development expenses increased $160 million or 15%, primarily reflecting higher headcount-related costs. Sales and marketing expenses grew $112 million or 15%, primarily reflecting increased Xbox 360 platform marketing activities. 
Corporate-Level Activity  
 
 31 


Table of Contents


PART II  Item 7  
Certain corporate-level activity is not allocated to our segments, including costs of: broad-based
sales and marketing; product support services; human resources; legal; finance; information technology; corporate development and procurement activities; research and development; and legal settlements and contingencies. 
Fiscal year 2012 compared with fiscal year 2011  Corporate-level expenses increased due mainly to full year Puerto Rican excise taxes, higher headcount-related expenses, and changes in foreign currency exchange rates. These increases were offset in part by lower
legal charges, which were $56 million in fiscal year 2012 compared with $332 million in fiscal year 2011.  Fiscal year 2011 compared with fiscal year
2010  Corporate-level expenses increased due mainly to new Puerto Rican excise taxes, certain revenue related sales and marketing
expenses, and increased headcount-related expenses. These increases were offset in part by lower legal charges, which were $332 million in fiscal year 2011 compared with $533 million in fiscal year 2010. 
OPERATING EXPENSES  Cost of Revenue
 
  Cost of revenue includes: manufacturing and distribution
costs for products sold and programs licensed; operating costs related to product support service centers and product distribution centers; costs incurred to include software on PCs sold by OEMs, to drive traffic to our websites, and to acquire
online advertising space (traffic acquisition costs); costs incurred to support and maintain Internet-based products and services including royalties; warranty costs; inventory valuation adjustments; costs associated with the delivery of
consulting services; and the amortization of capitalized research and development costs.  Fiscal year 2012 compared with fiscal year 2011
 Cost of revenue increased reflecting higher headcount-related costs, payments made to Nokia, and changes in the mix of products and
services sold. Headcount-related expenses increased 20%, primarily related to increased Enterprise Services headcount.  Fiscal year 2011 compared
with fiscal year 2010  Cost of revenue increased primarily due to increased volumes of Xbox 360 consoles and Kinect for Xbox 360
sold, higher costs associated with our online offerings, including traffic acquisition costs, and higher expenses from providing Enterprise Services, as well as royalty costs relating to Xbox LIVE digital content sold. 
Research and Development  
 
 32 


Table of Contents


PART II  Item 7  
Research and development expenses include payroll, employee benefits, stock-based compensation
expense, and other headcount-related expenses associated with product development. Research and development expenses also include third-party development and programming costs, localization costs incurred to translate software for international
markets, and the amortization of purchased software code and services content.  Fiscal year 2012 compared with fiscal year 2011 
Research and development expenses increased, primarily reflecting a 10% increase in headcount-related expenses. 
Fiscal year 2011 compared with fiscal year 2010  Research and development expenses increased primarily due to a 5% increase in headcount-related expenses and the capitalization of certain software development costs in the prior year. 
Sales and Marketing  
  Sales and marketing expenses include payroll, employee
benefits, stock-based compensation expense, and other headcount-related expenses associated with sales and marketing personnel and the costs of advertising, promotions, trade shows, seminars, and other programs. 
Fiscal year 2012 compared with fiscal year 2011  Sales and marketing expenses decreased slightly, primarily reflecting decreased advertising and marketing of the Xbox 360 platform, Windows Phone, and Bing, offset in part by a 5% increase in headcount-related
expenses.  Fiscal year 2011 compared with fiscal year 2010  Sales and marketing expenses increased, primarily as a result of increased advertising and marketing of the Xbox 360 platform, Windows Phone, and Windows and Windows Live, a 5% increase in headcount-related
expenses, and increased fees paid to third-party enterprise software advisors.  General and Administrative 

  General and administrative expenses include payroll,
employee benefits, stock-based compensation expense, severance expense, and other headcount-related expenses associated with finance, legal, facilities, certain human resources and other administrative personnel, certain taxes, and legal and other
administrative fees.  Fiscal year 2012 compared with fiscal year 2011  General and administrative expenses increased, primarily due to a 10% increase in headcount-related expenses and a full year of Puerto Rican excise taxes, offset in part by a decrease in legal charges. 
 33 


Table of Contents


PART II  Item 7  
Fiscal year 2011 compared with fiscal year 2010 
General and administrative expenses increased, primarily due to a 12% increase in headcount-related expenses and new Puerto Rican excise taxes,
partially offset by prior year transition expenses associated with the inception of the Yahoo! Commercial Agreement.  Goodwill Impairment
 We conducted our annual goodwill impairment test as of May1, 2012 for all reporting units. This test, which was based on our
most recent cash flow forecast, indicated that OSDs carrying value exceeded its estimated fair value. Accordingly, we recorded a non-cash, non-tax deductible goodwill impairment charge of $6.2 billion during the three months ended
June30, 2012, reducing OSDs goodwill from $6.4 billion to $223 million.  OTHER INCOME (EXPENSE) AND INCOME TAXES
 Other Income (Expense)  The
components of other income (expense) were as follows:  
 We use derivative instruments to manage risks related to foreign currencies, equity prices, interest rates, and
credit; to enhance investment returns; and to facilitate portfolio diversification. Gains and losses from changes in fair values of derivatives that are not designated as hedges are recognized in other income (expense). These are generally offset by
unrealized gains and losses in the underlying securities in the investment portfolio and are recorded as a component of other comprehensive income. 
Fiscal year 2012 compared with fiscal year 2011  Dividends and interest income decreased due to lower yields on our fixed-income investments, offset in part by higher average portfolio investment balances. Interest expense increased due to our increased issuance
of debt in the prior year. Net recognized gains on investments increased, primarily due to higher gains on sales of equity and fixed-income securities and a gain recognized on the partial sale of our Facebook holding upon the initial public offering
on May18, 2012, offset in part by higher other-than-temporary impairments. Other-than-temporary impairments were $298 million in fiscal year 2012, compared with $80 million in fiscal year 2011. Net losses on derivatives increased due to losses
on commodity and equity derivatives in the current fiscal year as compared with gains in the prior fiscal year, offset in part by fewer losses on foreign exchange contracts in the current fiscal year as compared to the prior fiscal year. Changes in
foreign currency remeasurements were primarily due to currency movements net of our hedging activities.  Fiscal year 2011 compared with fiscal year
2010  Dividends and interest income increased due to higher average portfolio investment balances, offset in part by lower yields on
our fixed-income investments. Interest expense increased due to our increased issuance of debt. Net 
 34 


Table of Contents


PART II  Item 7  

recognized gains on investments increased, primarily due to higher gains on sales of equity securities, offset in part by fewer gains on sales of fixed-income securities. Derivative losses
decreased, primarily due to higher gains on commodity derivatives offset in part by higher losses on currency contracts used to hedge foreign currency revenue.  Income Taxes  Fiscal year 2012 compared with fiscal year 2011 
Our effective tax rates for fiscal years 2012 and 2011 were approximately 24% and 18%, respectively. Our effective tax rates were lower than the
U.S. federal statutory rate primarily due to earnings taxed at lower rates in foreign jurisdictions resulting from producing and distributing our products and services through our foreign regional operations centers in Ireland, Singapore, and Puerto
Rico, which have lower income tax rates.  Our fiscal year 2012 effective rate increased by 6% from fiscal year 2011 mainly due to a
nonrecurring $6.2 billion non-tax deductible goodwill impairment charge that was recorded in the fourth quarter of 2012. The goodwill impairment charge increased our effective tax rate by 10%. In addition, in fiscal years 2012 and 2011, we
recognized a reduction of 21% and 16%, respectively, to the effective tax rate due to foreign earnings taxed at lower rates. In fiscal year 2011, we settled a portion of an I.R.S. audit of tax years 2004 to 2006, which reduced our income tax expense
for fiscal year 2011 by $461 million and reduced the effective tax rate by 2%.  Changes in the mix of income before income taxes between
the U.S. and foreign countries also impacted our effective tax rates and resulted primarily from changes in the geographic distribution of and changes in consumer demand for our products and services. As discussed above, Windows Division operating
income declined $751 million in fiscal year 2012, while MBD and Server and Tools operating income increased $1.1 billion and $1.1 billion, respectively, during this same period. We supply Windows, our primary Windows Division product, to customers
through our U.S. regional operating center, while we supply the Microsoft Office System, our primary MBD product, and our Server and Tools products to customers through our foreign regional operations centers. In fiscal years 2012 and 2011, our U.S.
income before income taxes was $1.6 billion and $8.9 billion, respectively, and comprised 7% and 32%, respectively, of our income before income taxes. In fiscal years 2012 and 2011, the foreign income before income taxes was $20.7 billion and $19.2
billion, respectively, and comprised 93% and 68%, respectively, of our income before income taxes. The primary driver for the decrease in the U.S. income before income tax in fiscal year 2012 was the goodwill impairment charge. 
Tax contingencies and other tax liabilities were $7.6 billion and $7.4 billion as of June30, 2012 and 2011, respectively, and are included in
other long-term liabilities. While we settled a portion of the I.R.S. audit for tax years 2004 to 2006 during the third quarter of fiscal year 2011, we remain under audit for these years. In February 2012, the I.R.S. withdrew its 2011 Revenue Agents
Report and reopened the audit phase of the examination. As of June30, 2012, the primary unresolved issue relates to transfer pricing which could have a significant impact on our financial statements if not resolved favorably. We believe our
allowances for tax contingencies are appropriate. We do not believe it is reasonably possible that the total amount of unrecognized tax benefits will significantly increase or decrease within the next 12 months, as we do not believe the remaining
open issues will be resolved within the next 12 months. We also continue to be subject to examination by the I.R.S. for tax years 2007 to 2011. 
Fiscal year 2011 compared with fiscal year 2010  Our effective tax rates for fiscal years 2011 and 2010 were approximately 18% and 25%, respectively. Our effective tax rate was lower than the U.S. federal statutory rate and our prior year effective rate primarily
due to a higher mix of earnings taxed at lower rates in foreign jurisdictions resulting from producing and distributing our products and services through our foreign regional operations centers in Ireland, Singapore, and Puerto Rico, which have
lower income tax rates. In fiscal years 2011 and 2010, our U.S. income before income taxes was $8.9 billionand $9.6 billion, respectively, and comprised 32% and 38%, respectively, of our income before income taxes.In fiscal years 2011
and 2010, the foreign income before income taxes was $19.2 billion and $15.4 billion, respectively, and comprised 68% and 62%, respectively, of our income before income taxes. In fiscal years 2011 and 2010, the reduction of the U.S. federal
statutory rate as a result of foreign earnings taxed at lower rates was 16% and 12%, respectively. 
 35 


Table of Contents


PART II  Item 7  
In addition, our effective tax rate was lower than in the prior year due to a partial settlement
with the I.R.S. in the third quarter of fiscal year 2011 relating to the audit of tax years 2004 to 2006. This partial settlement reduced our income tax expense for fiscal year 2011 by $461 million. 
FINANCIAL CONDITION  Cash, Cash
Equivalents, and Investments  Cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments totaled $63.0 billion as of June30, 2012,
compared with $52.8 billion as of June30, 2011. Equity and other investments were $9.8 billion as of June30, 2012, compared with $10.9 billion as of June30, 2011. Our short-term investments are primarily to facilitate liquidity and
for capital preservation. They consist predominantly of highly liquid investment-grade fixed-income securities, diversified among industries and individual issuers. The investments are predominantly U.S. dollar-denominated securities, but also
include foreign currency-denominated securities in order to diversify risk. Our fixed-income investments are exposed to interest rate risk and credit risk. The credit risk and average maturity of our fixed-income portfolio are managed to achieve
economic returns that correlate to certain fixed-income indices. The settlement risk related to these investments is insignificant given that the short-term investments held are primarily highly liquid investment-grade fixed-income securities. While
we own certain mortgage-backed and asset-backed fixed-income securities, our portfolio as of June30, 2012 does not contain direct exposure to subprime mortgages or structured vehicles that derive their value from subprime collateral. The
majority of our mortgage-backed securities are collateralized by prime residential mortgages and carry a 100% principal and interest guarantee, primarily from Federal National Mortgage Association, Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation, and
Government National Mortgage Association.  We routinely monitor our financial exposure to both sovereign and non-sovereign borrowers and
counterparties. Our gross exposures to our customers and investments in Portugal, Italy, Ireland, Greece, and Spain are individually and collectively not material.  Of the cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments at June30, 2012, approximately $54 billion was held by our foreign subsidiaries and would be subject to material repatriation tax effects. The amount
of cash and investments held by foreign subsidiaries subject to other restrictions on the free flow of funds (primarily currency and other local regulatory) was approximately $660 million. As of June30, 2012, approximately 77% of the
short-term investments held by our foreign subsidiaries were invested in U.S. government and agency securities, approximately 10% were invested in corporate notes and bonds of U.S. companies, and 3% were invested in U.S. mortgage-backed securities,
all of which are denominated in U.S. dollars.  Securities lending  We lend certain fixed-income and equity securities to increase investment returns. The loaned securities continue to be carried as investments on our balance sheet. Cash and/or security interests are received as
collateral for the loaned securities with the amount determined based upon the underlying security lent and the creditworthiness of the borrower. Cash received is recorded as an asset with a corresponding liability. Our securities lending payable
balance was $814 million as of June30, 2012. Our average and maximum securities lending payable balances for the fiscal year were $1.2 billion and $1.4 billion, respectively. Intra-year variances in the amount of securities loaned are mainly
due to fluctuations in the demand for the securities.  Valuation  In general, and where applicable, we use quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities to determine the fair value of our financial instruments. This pricing methodology applies to our Level 1
investments, such as exchange-traded mutual funds, domestic and international equities, and U.S. treasuries. If quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities are not available to determine fair value, then we use quoted prices
for similar assets and liabilities or inputs other than the quoted prices that are observable either directly or indirectly. This pricing methodology applies to our Level 2 investments such as corporate notes and bonds, foreign government

 36 


Table of Contents


PART II  Item 7  

bonds, mortgage-backed securities, and agency securities. Level 3 investments are valued using internally developed models with unobservable inputs. Assets and liabilities measured using
unobservable inputs are an immaterial portion of our portfolio.  A majority of our investments are priced by pricing vendors and are
generally Level 1 or Level 2 investments as these vendors either provide a quoted market price in an active market or use observable inputs for their pricing without applying significant adjustments. Broker pricing is used mainly when a quoted price
is not available, the investment is not priced by our pricing vendors, or when a broker price is more reflective of fair values in the market in which the investment trades. Our broker-priced investments are generally labeled as Level 2 investments
because the broker prices these investments based on similar assets without applying significant adjustments. In addition, all of our broker-priced investments have a sufficient level of trading volume to demonstrate that the fair values used are
appropriate for these investments. Our fair value processes include controls that are designed to ensure appropriate fair values are recorded. These controls include model validation, review of key model inputs, analysis of period-over-period
fluctuations, and independent recalculation of prices where appropriate.  Cash Flows  Fiscal year 2012 compared with fiscal year 2011  Cash flows from operations increased $4.6
billion during the current fiscal year to $31.6 billion due mainly to increased revenue and cash collections from customers. Cash used for financing increased $1.0 billion to $9.4 billion due mainly to a $6.0 billion net decrease in proceeds from
issuances of debt and a $1.2 billion increase in dividends paid, offset in part by a $6.5 billion decrease in cash used for common stock repurchases. Cash used in investing increased $10.2 billion to $24.8 billion due mainly to a $10.0 billion
increase in acquisitions of businesses and purchases of intangible assets and a $1.4 billion decrease in cash from securities lending activities, partially offset by a $1.2 billion decrease in cash used for net purchases, maturities, and sales of
investments.  Fiscal year 2011 compared with fiscal year 2010  Cash flows from operations increased $2.9 billion during the current fiscal year to $27.0 billion due mainly to increased revenue and cash collections from customers. Cash used in financing decreased $4.9 billion
to $8.4 billion due mainly to a $5.8 billion increase in proceeds from issuance of debt, net of repayments, offset in part by a $602 million increase in cash paid for dividends. Cash used in investing increased $3.3 billion to $14.6 billion due to a
$5.8 billion increase in purchases of investments, offset in part by a $2.5 billion increase in cash from securities lending.  Debt 
We issued debt in prior periods to take advantage of favorable pricing and liquidity in the debt markets, reflecting our credit rating and the low
interest rate environment. The proceeds of these issuances were used to partially fund discretionary business acquisitions and share repurchases.  As of June30, 2012, the total carrying value and estimated fair value of our long-term debt, including the current portion, were $11.9 billion and $13.2 billion, respectively. This is compared with a carrying
value and estimated fair value of $11.9 billion and $12.1 billion, respectively, as of June30, 2011. These estimated fair values are based on Level2 inputs. 
 37 


Table of Contents


PART II  Item 7  
The components of our long-term debt, including the current portion, and the associated interest
rates and semi-annual interest record and payment dates were as follows as of June30, 2012:  
 As of June30, 2012, the aggregate unamortized discount for our long-term debt, including the current portion,
was $56 million.  Notes  The
Notes are senior unsecured obligations and rank equally with our other unsecured and unsubordinated debt outstanding.  Convertible Debt
 In June 2010, we issued $1.25 billion of zero coupon convertible unsecured debt due on June15, 2013 in a private placement
offering. Proceeds from the offering were $1.24 billion, net of fees and expenses, which were capitalized. Initially, each $1,000 principal amount of notes was convertible into 29.94 shares of Microsoft common stock at a conversion price of $33.40
per share. The conversion ratio is adjusted periodically for dividends in excess of the initial dividend threshold as defined in the debt agreement. As of June30, 2012, the net carrying amount of our convertible debt was $1.2 billion and the
unamortized discount was $19 million.  Prior to March15, 2013, the notes will be convertible, only in certain circumstances, into
cash and, if applicable, cash, shares of Microsofts common stock, or a combination thereof, at our election. On or after March15, 2013, the notes will be convertible at any time. Upon conversion, we will pay cash up to the aggregate
principal amount of the notes and pay or deliver cash, shares of our common stock, or a combination of cash and shares of our common stock, at our election.  Because the convertible debt may be wholly or partially settled in cash, we are required to separately account for the liability and equity components of the notes in a manner that reflects our nonconvertible debt
borrowing rate when interest costs are recognized in subsequent periods. The net proceeds of $1.24 billion were allocated between debt for $1.18 billion and stockholders equity for $58 million with the portion in stockholders equity
representing the fair value of the option to convert the debt.  In connection with the issuance of the notes, we entered into capped
call transactions with certain option counterparties who are initial purchasers of the notes or their affiliates. The capped call transactions are expected to 
 38 


Table of Contents


PART II  Item 7  

reduce potential dilution of earnings per share upon conversion of the notes. Under the capped call transactions, we purchased from the option counterparties capped call options that in the
aggregate relate to the total number of shares of our common stock underlying the notes, with a strike price equal to the conversion price of the notes and with an initial cap price equal to $37.16, which is adjusted periodically to mirror any
adjustments to the conversion price. The purchased capped calls were valued at $40 million and recorded to stockholders equity.  Unearned
Revenue  Unearned revenue at June30, 2012 comprised mainly unearned revenue from volume licensing programs. Unearned revenue
from volume licensing programs represents customer billings for multi-year licensing arrangements paid for either at inception of the agreement or annually at the beginning of each billing coverage period and accounted for as subscriptions with
revenue recognized ratably over the billing coverage period. Unearned revenue at June30, 2012 also included payments for: post-delivery support and consulting services to be performed in the future; Xbox LIVE subscriptions and prepaid points;
the Windows Upgrade Offer; Microsoft Dynamics business solutions products; Skype prepaid credits and subscriptions; OEM minimum commitments; and other offerings for which we have been paid in advance and earn the revenue when we provide the service
or software, or otherwise meet the revenue recognition criteria.  The following table outlines the expected future recognition of
unearned revenue as of June30, 2012:  
 Share Repurchases  On September22, 2008, we announced that our Board of Directors approved a new share repurchase program authorizing up to $40.0 billion in share repurchases with an expiration date of September30, 2013.
As of June30, 2012, approximately $8.2 billion remained of the $40.0 billion approved repurchase amount. The repurchase program may be suspended or discontinued at any time without notice. 
During the periods reported, we repurchased with cash resources: 142million shares for $4.0 billion during fiscal year 2012; 447million
shares for $11.5 billion during fiscal year 2011; and 380million shares for $10.8 billion during fiscal year 2010.  Dividends 
During fiscal years 2012 and 2011, our Board of Directors declared the following dividends: 

 
 39 


Table of Contents


PART II  Item 7  
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements  We provide indemnifications of varying scope and size to certain customers against claims of intellectual property infringement made by third parties arising from the use of our products and certain other matters.
In evaluating estimated losses on these indemnifications, we consider factors such as the degree of probability of an unfavorable outcome and our ability to make a reasonable estimate of the amount of loss. To date, we have not encountered
significant costs as a result of these obligations and have not accrued in our financial statements any liabilities related to these indemnifications. 
Contractual Obligations  The following
table summarizes the payments due by fiscal year for our outstanding contractual obligations as of June30, 2012:  
 




 Other Planned Uses of Capital 
On July18, 2012, we acquired Yammer, Inc. (Yammer), a leading provider of enterprise social networks, for $1.2 billion in cash.
Yammer will continue to develop its standalone service and will add an enterprise social networking service to Microsofts portfolio of complementary cloud-based services. 
We will continue to invest in sales, marketing, product support infrastructure, and existing and advanced areas of technology. Additions to
property and equipment will continue, including new facilities, data centers, and computer systems for research and development, sales and marketing, support, and administrative staff. We have operating leases for most U.S. and international sales
and support offices and certain equipment. We have not engaged in any related party transactions or arrangements with unconsolidated entities or other persons that are reasonably likely to materially affect liquidity or the availability of capital
resources.  Liquidity  We earn a
significant amount of our operating income outside the U.S., which is deemed to be permanently reinvested in foreign jurisdictions. As a result, as discussed above under Cash, Cash Equivalents, and Investments,

 40 


Table of Contents


PART II  Item 7  

the majority of our cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments are held by foreign subsidiaries. We currently do not intend nor foresee a need to repatriate these funds. We expect
existing domestic cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments, and cash flows from operations to continue to be sufficient to fund our domestic operating activities and cash commitments for investing and financing activities, such as regular
quarterly dividends, debt repayment schedules, and material capital expenditures, for at least the next 12 months and thereafter for the foreseeable future. In addition, we expect existing foreign cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments, and
cash flows from operations to continue to be sufficient to fund our foreign operating activities and cash commitments for investing activities, such as material capital expenditures, for at least the next 12 months and thereafter for the foreseeable
future.  Should we require more capital in the U.S. than is generated by our operations domestically, for example to fund significant
discretionary activities, such as business acquisitions and share repurchases, we could elect to repatriate future earnings from foreign jurisdictions or raise capital in the U.S. through debt or equity issuances. These alternatives could result in
higher effective tax rates, increased interest expense, or dilution of our earnings. We have borrowed funds domestically and continue to believe we have the ability to do so at reasonable interest rates. 
RECENT ACCOUNTING GUIDANCE  Recently
Adopted Accounting Guidance  On July1, 2011, we adopted guidance issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board
(FASB) on disclosure requirements related to fair value measurements.The guidance requires the disclosure of roll-forward activities on purchases, sales, issuances, and settlements of the assets and liabilities measured using
significant unobservable inputs (Level 3 fair value measurements).Adoption of this new guidance did not have a material impact on our financial statements.  On January1, 2012, we adopted guidance issued by the FASB on accounting and disclosure requirements related to fair value measurements.The guidance limits the highest-and-best-use measure to
nonfinancial assets, permits certain financial assets and liabilities with offsetting positions in market or counterparty credit risks to be measured at a net basis, and provides guidance on the applicability of premiums and
discounts.Additionally, the guidance expands the disclosures on Level 3 inputs by requiring quantitative disclosure of the unobservable inputs and assumptions, as well as description of the valuation processes and the sensitivity of the fair
value to changes in unobservable inputs.Adoption of this new guidance did not have a material impact on our financial statements.  Recent
Accounting Guidance Not Yet Adopted  In December 2011, the FASB issued guidance enhancing disclosure requirements about the nature
of an entitys right to offset and related arrangements associated with its financial instruments and derivative instruments. The new guidance requires the disclosure of the gross amounts subject to rights of set-off, amounts offset in
accordance with the accounting standards followed, and the related net exposure. The new guidance will be effective for us beginning July1, 2013. Other than requiring additional disclosures, we do not anticipate material impacts on our
financial statements upon adoption.  In September 2011, the FASB issued guidance on testing goodwill for impairment. The new guidance
provides an entity the option to first perform a qualitative assessment to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. If an entity determines that this is the case, it is
required to perform the currently prescribed two-step goodwill impairment test to identify potential goodwill impairment and measure the amount of goodwill impairment loss to be recognized for that reporting unit (if any). If an entity determines
that the fair value of a reporting unit is greater than its carrying amount, the two-step goodwill impairment test is not required. The new guidance will be effective for us beginning July1, 2012. 
In June 2011, the FASB issued guidance on presentation of comprehensive income.The new guidance eliminates the current option to report other
comprehensive income and its components in the statement of changes in stockholders equity.Instead, an entity will be required to present either a continuous statement of net income and

 41 


Table of Contents


PART II  Item 7  

other comprehensive income or in two separate but consecutive statements.This portion of the guidance will be effective for us beginning July1, 2012 and will require financial
statement presentation changes only. The new guidance also required entities to present reclassification adjustments out of accumulated other comprehensive income by component in both the statement in which net income is presented and the statement
in which other comprehensive income is presented. However, in December 2011, the FASB issued guidance that indefinitely defers the guidance related to the presentation of reclassification adjustments. 
APPLICATION OF CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES  Our financial statements and accompanying notes are prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Preparing financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of
assets, liabilities, revenue, and expenses. These estimates and assumptions are affected by managements application of accounting policies. Critical accounting policies for us include revenue recognition, impairment of investment securities,
goodwill, research and development costs, contingencies, income taxes, and stock-based compensation.  Revenue Recognition 
Software revenue recognition requires judgment, including whether a software arrangement includes multiple elements, and if so, whether
vendor-specific objective evidence (VSOE) of fair value exists for those elements. A portion of revenue may be recorded as unearned due to undelivered elements. Changes to the elements in a software arrangement, the ability to identify
VSOE for those elements, and the fair value of the respective elements could materially impact the amount of earned and unearned revenue. Judgment is also required to assess whether future releases of certain software represent new products or
upgrades and enhancements to existing products.  Windows 7 revenue is subject to deferral as a result of the Windows Upgrade Offer,
which started June2, 2012. The offer provides significantly discounted rights to purchase Windows 8 Pro to qualifying end users that purchase Windows 7 PCs during the eligibility period. Microsoft is responsible for delivering Windows 8 Pro to
the end customer. Accordingly, revenue related to the allocated discount for undelivered Windows 8 is deferred until it is delivered or the redemption period expires.  Impairment of Investment Securities  We review investments quarterly for indicators of
other-than-temporary impairment. This determination requires significant judgment. In making this judgment, we employ a systematic methodology quarterly that considers available quantitative and qualitative evidence in evaluating potential
impairment of our investments. If the cost of an investment exceeds its fair value, we evaluate, among other factors, general market conditions, credit quality of debt instrument issuers, the duration and extent to which the fair value is less than
cost, and for equity securities, our intent and ability to hold, or plans to sell, the investment. For fixed-income securities, we also evaluate whether we have plans to sell the security or it is more likely than not that we will be required to
sell the security before recovery. We also consider specific adverse conditions related to the financial health of and business outlook for the investee, including industry and sector performance, changes in technology, and operational and financing
cash flow factors. Once a decline in fair value is determined to be other-than-temporary, an impairment charge is recorded to other income (expense) and a new cost basis in the investment is established. If market, industry, and/or investee
conditions deteriorate, we may incur future impairments.  Goodwill  We allocate goodwill to reporting units based on the reporting unit expected to benefit from the business combination. We evaluate our reporting units on an annual basis and, if necessary, reassign goodwill using a
relative fair value allocation approach. Goodwill is tested for impairment at the reporting unit level (operating segment or one level below an operating segment) on an annual basis (May 1 for us) and between annual tests if an event occurs or
circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying value. These events or circumstances could include a significant change in the business climate, legal factors, operating performance
indicators, competition, or sale or disposition of a significant portion of a reporting unit. 
 42 


Table of Contents


PART II  Item 7  
Application of the goodwill impairment test requires judgment, including the identification of
reporting units, assignment of assets and liabilities to reporting units, assignment of goodwill to reporting units, and determination of the fair value of each reporting unit. The fair value of each reporting unit is estimated using a discounted
cash flow methodology. This analysis requires significant judgments, including estimation of future cash flows, which is dependent on internal forecasts, estimation of the long-term rate of growth for our business, estimation of the useful life over
which cash flows will occur, and determination of our weighted average cost of capital.  The estimates used to calculate the fair value
of a reporting unit change from year to year based on operating results, market conditions, and other factors. Changes in these estimates and assumptions could materially affect the determination of fair value and goodwill impairment for each
reporting unit.  Research and Development Costs  Costs incurred internally in researching and developing a computer software product are charged to expense until technological feasibility has been established for the product. Once technological feasibility is
established, all software costs are capitalized until the product is available for general release to customers. Judgment is required in determining when technological feasibility of a product is established. We have determined that technological
feasibility for our software products is reached after all high-risk development issues have been resolved through coding and testing. Generally, this occurs shortly before the products are released to manufacturing. The amortization of these costs
is included in cost of revenue over the estimated life of the products.  Legal and Other Contingencies 
The outcomes of legal proceedings and claims brought against us are subject to significant uncertainty. An estimated loss from a loss contingency
such as a legal proceeding or claim is accrued by a charge to income if it is probable that an asset has been impaired or a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. Disclosure of a contingency is required
if there is at least a reasonable possibility that a loss has been incurred. In determining whether a loss should be accrued we evaluate, among other factors, the degree of probability of an unfavorable outcome and the ability to make a reasonable
estimate of the amount of loss. Changes in these factors could materially impact our financial statements.  Income Taxes 
The objectives of accounting for income taxes are to recognize the amount of taxes payable or refundable for the current year and deferred tax
liabilities and assets for the future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in an entitys financial statements or tax returns. We recognize the tax benefit from an uncertain tax position only if it is more likely than not that
the tax position will be sustained on examination by the taxing authorities, based on the technical merits of the position. The tax benefits recognized in the financial statements from such a position are measured based on the largest benefit that
has a greater than 50% likelihood of being realized upon ultimate settlement. Accounting literature also provides guidance on derecognition of income tax assets and liabilities, classification of current and deferred income tax assets and
liabilities, accounting for interest and penalties associated with tax positions, and income tax disclosures. Judgment is required in assessing the future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in our financial statements or tax
returns. Variations in the actual outcome of these future tax consequences could materially impact our financial statements.  Stock-Based
Compensation  Stock-based compensation cost is measured at the grant date based on the fair value of the award and is recognized as
expense, net of estimated forfeitures, over the requisite service period. Determining the fair value of stock-based awards at the grant date requires judgment, including estimating expected dividends. In addition, judgment is also required in
estimating the amount of stock-based awards that are expected to be forfeited. If actual results differ significantly from these estimates, stock-based compensation expense and our results of operations could be impacted. 
 43 


Table of Contents


PART II  Item 7  
STATEMENT OF MANAGEMENTS RESPONSIBILITY FOR FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Management is responsible for the preparation of the consolidated financial statements and related information that are presented in this report.
The consolidated financial statements, which include amounts based on managements estimates and judgments, have been prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. 
The Company designs and maintains accounting and internal control systems to provide reasonable assurance at reasonable cost that assets are
safeguarded against loss from unauthorized use or disposition, and that the financial records are reliable for preparing financial statements and maintaining accountability for assets. These systems are augmented by written policies, an
organizational structure providing division of responsibilities, careful selection and training of qualified personnel, and a program of internal audits.  The Company engaged Deloitte& Touche LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, to audit and render an opinion on the consolidated financial statements and internal control over financial
reporting in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States).  The Board of Directors,
through its Audit Committee, consisting solely of independent directors of the Company, meets periodically with management, internal auditors, and our independent registered public accounting firm to ensure that each is meeting its responsibilities
and to discuss matters concerning internal controls and financial reporting. Deloitte& Touche LLP and the internal auditors each have full and free access to the Audit Committee. 

 44 


Table of Contents


PART II  Item 7A  
ITEM7A.QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT
MARKET RISK  RISKS  We are exposed to economic risk from foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates, credit risk, equity prices, and commodity prices. A portion of these risks is hedged, but they may impact our financial
statements.  Foreign Currency 
Certain forecasted transactions, assets, and liabilities are exposed to foreign currency risk. We monitor our foreign currency exposures daily and
use hedges where practicable to offset the risks and maximize the economic effectiveness of our foreign currency positions. Principal currencies hedged include the euro, Japanese yen, British pound, and Canadian dollar. 
Interest Rate  Our fixed-income portfolio
is diversified across credit sectors and maturities, consisting primarily of investment-grade securities. The credit risk and average maturity of the fixed-income portfolio is managed to achieve economic returns that correlate to certain global and
domestic fixed-income indices. In addition, we use To Be Announced forward purchase commitments of mortgage-backed assets to gain exposure to agency and mortgage-backed securities. 
Equity  Our equity portfolio consists of
global, developed, and emerging market securities that are subject to market price risk.We manage the securities relative to certain global and domestic indices and expect their economic risk and return to correlate with these indices.
 Commodity  We use broad-based
commodity exposures to enhance portfolio returns and facilitate portfolio diversification. Our investment portfolio has exposure to a variety of commodities, including precious metals, energy, and grain. We manage these exposures relative to global
commodity indices and expect their economic risk and return to correlate with these indices.  VALUE-AT-RISK 
We use a value-at-risk (VaR) model to estimate and quantify our market risks. VaR is the expected loss, for a given confidence level,
in the fair value of our portfolio due to adverse market movements over a defined time horizon. The VaR model is not intended to represent actual losses in fair value, including determinations of other-than-temporary losses in fair value in
accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (U.S. GAAP), but is used as a risk estimation and management tool. The distribution of the potential changes in total market value of all holdings is computed
based on the historical volatilities and correlations among foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates, equity prices, and commodity prices, assuming normal market conditions. 
The VaR is calculated as the total loss that will not be exceeded at the 97.5 percentile confidence level or, alternatively stated, the losses
could exceed the VaR in 25 out of 1,000 cases. Several risk factors are not captured in the model, including liquidity risk, operational risk, and legal risk. 
 45 


Table of Contents


PART II  Item 7A  
The following table sets forth the one-day VaR for substantially all of our positions as of
June30, 2012 and June30, 2011 and for the year ended June30, 2012:  
  Total one-day VaR for the combined risk categories was
$292 million at June30, 2012 and $290 million at June30, 2011. The total VaR is 26% less at June30, 2012, and 25% less at June30, 2011, than the sum of the separate risk categories in the above table due to the
diversification benefit of the combination of risks. 
 46 


Table of Contents


PART II  Item 8  
ITEM8.FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

INCOME STATEMENTS 

 
 See accompanying notes. 
 47 


Table of Contents


PART II  Item 8  
BALANCE SHEETS 


See accompanying notes. 
 48 


Table of Contents


PART II  Item 8  
CASH FLOWS STATEMENTS 


See accompanying notes. 
 49 


Table of Contents


PART II  Item 8  
STOCKHOLDERS EQUITY STATEMENTS 


See accompanying notes. 
 50 


Table of Contents


PART II  Item 8  
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
NOTE 1  ACCOUNTING POLICIES 
Accounting Principles 
The financial statements and accompanying notes are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of
America (U.S. GAAP).  Principles of Consolidation  The financial statements include the accounts of Microsoft Corporation and its subsidiaries. Intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated. Equity investments through which we exercise significant
influence over but do not control the investee and are not the primary beneficiary of the investees activities are accounted for using the equity method. Investments through which we are not able to exercise significant influence over the
investee and which do not have readily determinable fair values are accounted for under the cost method.  Estimates and Assumptions 
Preparing financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities,
revenue, and expenses. Examples of estimates include: loss contingencies; product warranties; the fair value of, and/or potential goodwill impairment for, our reporting units; product life cycles; useful lives of our tangible and intangible assets;
allowances for doubtful accounts; allowances for product returns; and stock-based compensation forfeiture rates. Examples of assumptions include: the elements comprising a software arrangement, including the distinction between upgrades or
enhancements and new products; when technological feasibility is achieved for our products; the potential outcome of future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in our financial statements or tax returns; and determining when
investment impairments are other-than-temporary. Actual results and outcomes may differ from managements estimates and assumptions.  Foreign
Currencies  Assets and liabilities recorded in foreign currencies are translated at the exchange rate on the balance sheet date.
Revenue and expenses are translated at average rates of exchange prevailing during the year. Translation adjustments resulting from this process are recorded to Other Comprehensive Income (OCI). 
Revenue Recognition  Revenue is recognized
when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, the fee is fixed or determinable, and collectibility is probable. Revenue generally is recognized net of allowances for returns and any taxes collected from customers and
subsequently remitted to governmental authorities.  Revenue for retail packaged products, products licensed to original equipment
manufacturers (OEMs), and perpetual licenses under certain volume licensing programs generally is recognized as products are shipped or made available. Revenue for products under technology guarantee programs, which provide free or
significantly discounted rights to use upcoming new versions of a software product if an end user licenses existing versions of the product during the eligibility period, is allocated between existing product and the new product, and revenue
allocated to the new product is deferred until that version is delivered. The revenue allocation is based on vendor-specific objective evidence of fair value of the products.  Certain multi-year licensing arrangements include a perpetual license for current products combined with rights to receive future versions of software products on a when-and-if-available basis (Software
Assurance) and are accounted for as subscriptions, with billings recorded as unearned revenue and recognized as revenue ratably over the billing coverage period. Revenue from certain arrangements that allow for the use of a product or service
over a period of time without taking possession of software are also accounted for as subscriptions. Revenue for software 
 51 


Table of Contents


PART II  Item 8  

products where customers have the right to receive unspecified upgrades/enhancements on a when-and-if-available basis and for which vendor-specific objective evidence of fair value does not exist
for the upgrades/enhancements is recognized on a straight-line basis over the estimated life of the software.  Revenue related to our
Xbox 360 gaming and entertainment console, Kinect for Xbox 360, games published by us, and other hardware components is generally recognized when ownership is transferred to the resellers. Revenue related to games published by third parties for use
on the Xbox 360 platform is recognized when games are manufactured by the game publishers.  Display advertising revenue is recognized as
advertisements are displayed. Search advertising revenue is recognized when the ad appears in the search results or when the action necessary to earn the revenue has been completed. Consulting services revenue is recognized as services are rendered,
generally based on the negotiated hourly rate in the consulting arrangement and the number of hours worked during the period. Consulting revenue for fixed-price services arrangements is recognized as services are provided. Revenue from prepaid
points redeemable for the purchase of software or services is recognized upon redemption of the points and delivery of the software or services. 
Cost of Revenue  Cost of revenue includes;
manufacturing and distribution costs for products sold and programs licensed; operating costs related to product support service centers and product distribution centers; costs incurred to include software on PCs sold by OEMs, to drive traffic to
our websites, and to acquire online advertising space (traffic acquisition costs); costs incurred to support and maintain Internet-based products and services, including royalties; warranty costs; inventory valuation adjustments; costs
associated with the delivery of consulting services; and the amortization of capitalized research and development costs. Capitalized research and development costs are amortized over the estimated lives of the products. 
Product Warranty  We provide for the
estimated costs of fulfilling our obligations under hardware and software warranties at the time the related revenue is recognized. For hardware warranties, we estimate the costs based on historical and projected product failure rates, historical
and projected repair costs, and knowledge of specific product failures (if any). The specific hardware warranty terms and conditions vary depending upon the product sold and the country in which we do business, but generally include parts and labor
over a period generally ranging from 90days to three years. For software warranties, we estimate the costs to provide bug fixes, such as security patches, over the estimated life of the software. We regularly reevaluate our estimates to assess
the adequacy of the recorded warranty liabilities and adjust the amounts as necessary.  Research and Development 
Research and development expenses include payroll, employee benefits, stock-based compensation expense, and other headcount-related expenses
associated with product development. Research and development expenses also include third-party development and programming costs, localization costs incurred to translate software for international markets, and the amortization of purchased
software code and services content. Such costs related to software development are included in research and development expense until the point that technological feasibility is reached, which for our software products, is generally shortly before
the products are released to manufacturing. Once technological feasibility is reached, such costs are capitalized and amortized to cost of revenue over the estimated lives of the products.  Sales and Marketing  Sales and marketing expenses include payroll, employee benefits,
stock-based compensation expense, and other headcount-related expenses associated with sales and marketing personnel, and the costs of advertising, promotions, trade shows, seminars, and other programs. Advertising costs are expensed as incurred.
Advertising expense was $1.6 billion, $1.9 billion, and $1.6 billion in fiscal years 2012, 2011, and 2010, respectively. 
 52 


Table of Contents


PART II  Item 8  
Stock-Based Compensation  We measure stock-based compensation cost at the grant date based on the fair value of the award and recognize it as expense, net of estimated forfeitures, over the vesting or service period, as applicable, of the
stock award (generally four to five years) using the straight-line method.  Employee Stock Purchase Plan 
Shares of our common stock may be purchased by employees at three-month intervals at 90% of the fair market value of the stock on the last day of
each three-month period. Compensation expense for the employee stock purchase plan is measured as the discount the employee is entitled to upon purchase and is recognized in the period of purchase. 
Income Taxes  Income tax expense includes
U.S. and international income taxes, the provision for U.S. taxes on undistributed earnings of international subsidiaries not deemed to be permanently invested, and interest and penalties on uncertain tax positions. Certain income and expenses are
not reported in tax returns and financial statements in the same year. The tax effect of such temporary differences is reported as deferred income taxes. Deferred tax assets are reported net of a valuation allowance when it is more likely than not
that a tax benefit will not be realized. The deferred income taxes are classified as current or long-term based on the classification of the related asset or liability.  Fair Value Measurements  We account for certain assets and liabilities at fair value. The
hierarchy below lists three levels of fair value based on the extent to which inputs used in measuring fair value are observable in the market.We categorize each of our fair value measurements in one of these three levels based on the lowest
level input that is significant to the fair value measurement in its entirety. These levels are:  


 

 53 


Table of Contents


PART II  Item 8  
We measure certain assets, including our cost and equity method investments, at fair value on a
nonrecurring basis when they are deemed to be other-than-temporarily impaired. The fair values of these investments are determined based on valuation techniques using the best information available, and may include quoted market prices, market
comparables, and discounted cash flow projections. An impairment charge is recorded when the cost of the investment exceeds its fair value and this condition is determined to be other-than-temporary. 
Our other current financial assets and our current financial liabilities have fair values that approximate their carrying values. 
Financial Instruments  We consider all
highly liquid interest-earning investments with a maturity of three months or less at the date of purchase to be cash equivalents. The fair values of these investments approximate their carrying values. In general, investments with original
maturities of greater than three months and remaining maturities of less than one year are classified as short-term investments. Investments with maturities beyond one year may be classified as short-term based on their highly liquid nature and
because such marketable securities represent the investment of cash that is available for current operations. All cash equivalents and short-term investments are classified as available-for-sale and realized gains and losses are recorded using the
specific identification method. Changes in market value, excluding other-than-temporary impairments, are reflected in OCI.  Equity and
other investments classified as long-term include both debt and equity instruments. Debt and publicly-traded equity securities are classified as available-for-sale and realized gains and losses are recorded using the specific identification method.
Changes in market value, excluding other-than-temporary impairments, are reflected in OCI. Common and preferred stock and other investments that are restricted for more than one year or are not publicly traded are recorded at cost or using the
equity method.  We lend certain fixed-income and equity securities to increase investment returns. The loaned securities continue to be
carried as investments on our balance sheet. Cash and/or security interests are received as collateral for the loaned securities with the amount determined based upon the underlying security lent and the creditworthiness of the borrower. Cash
received is recorded as an asset with a corresponding liability.  Investments are considered to be impaired when a decline in fair value
is judged to be other-than-temporary. Fair value is calculated based on publicly available market information or other estimates determined by management. We employ a systematic methodology on a quarterly basis that considers available quantitative
and qualitative evidence in evaluating potential impairment of our investments. If the cost of an investment exceeds its fair value, we evaluate, among other factors, general market conditions, credit quality of debt instrument issuers, the duration
and extent to which the fair value is less than cost, and for equity securities, our intent and ability to hold, or plans to sell, the investment. For fixed-income securities, we also evaluate whether we have plans to sell the security or it is more
likely than not that we will be required to sell the security before recovery. We also consider specific adverse conditions related to the financial health of and business outlook for the investee, including industry and sector performance, changes
in technology, and operational and financing cash flow factors. Once a decline in fair value is determined to be other-than-temporary, an impairment charge is recorded to other income (expense) and a new cost basis in the investment is established.
 Derivative instruments are recognized as either assets or liabilities and are measured at fair value. The accounting for changes in the
fair value of a derivative depends on the intended use of the derivative and the resulting designation.  For derivative instruments
designated as fair-value hedges, the gain (loss) is recognized in earnings in the period of change together with the offsetting loss or gain on the hedged items attributed to the risk being hedged. For options designated as fair-value hedges,
changes in the time value are excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness and are recognized in earnings. 
 54 


Table of Contents


PART II  Item 8  
For derivative instruments designated as cash-flow hedges, the effective portion of the
derivatives gain (loss) is initially reported as a component of OCI and is subsequently recognized in earnings when the hedged exposure is recognized in earnings. For options designated as cash-flow hedges, changes in the time value are
excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness and are recognized in earnings. Gains (losses) on derivatives representing either hedge components excluded from the assessment of effectiveness or hedge ineffectiveness are recognized in earnings.
 For derivative instruments that are not designated as hedges, gains (losses) from changes in fair values are primarily recognized in
other income (expense). Other than those derivatives entered into for investment purposes, such as commodity contracts, the gains (losses) are generally economically offset by unrealized gains (losses) in the underlying available-for-sale
securities, which are recorded as a component of OCI until the securities are sold or other-than-temporarily impaired, at which time the amounts are moved from OCI into other income (expense). 
Allowance for Doubtful Accounts  The
allowance for doubtful accounts reflects our best estimate of probable losses inherent in the accounts receivable balance. We determine the allowance based on known troubled accounts, historical experience, and other currently available evidence.
Activity in the allowance for doubtful accounts was as follows:  
 Inventories 
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market, using the average cost method. Cost includes materials, labor, and manufacturing overhead
related to the purchase and production of inventories. We regularly review inventory quantities on hand, future purchase commitments with our suppliers, and the estimated utility of our inventory. If our review indicates a reduction in utility below
carrying value, we reduce our inventory to a new cost basis through a charge to cost of revenue.  Property and Equipment 
Property and equipment is stated at cost and depreciated using the straight-line method over the shorter of the estimated useful life of the asset
or the lease term. The estimated useful lives of our property and equipment are generally as follows: computer software developed or acquired for internal use, three years; computer equipment, two to three years; buildings and improvements, five to
15 years; leasehold improvements, two to 10 years; and furniture and equipment, one to five years. Land is not depreciated.  Goodwill 
Goodwill is tested for impairment at the reporting unit level (operating segment or one level below an operating segment) on an annual basis (May 1
for us) and between annual tests if an event occurs or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying value. 
 55 


Table of Contents


PART II  Item 8  
Intangible Assets  All of our intangible assets are subject to amortization and are amortized using the straight-line method over their estimated period of benefit, ranging from one to 15 years. We evaluate the recoverability of
intangible assets periodically by taking into account events or circumstances that may warrant revised estimates of useful lives or that indicate the asset may be impaired.  Recent Accounting Guidance  Recently adopted accounting guidance 
On July1, 2011, we adopted guidance issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) on disclosure requirements related
to fair value measurements.The guidance requires the disclosure of roll-forward activities on purchases, sales, issuances, and settlements of the assets and liabilities measured using significant unobservable inputs (Level 3 fair value
measurements).Adoption of this new guidance did not have a material impact on our financial statements.  On January1, 2012,
we adopted guidance issued by the FASB on accounting and disclosure requirements related to fair value measurements.The guidance limits the highest-and-best-use measure to nonfinancial assets, permits certain financial assets and liabilities
with offsetting positions in market or counterparty credit risks to be measured at a net basis, and provides guidance on the applicability of premiums and discounts.Additionally, the guidance expands the disclosures on Level 3 inputs by
requiring quantitative disclosure of the unobservable inputs and assumptions, as well as description of the valuation processes and the sensitivity of the fair value to changes in unobservable inputs.Adoption of this new guidance did not have
a material impact on our financial statements.  Recent accounting guidance not yet adopted 
In December 2011, the FASB issued guidance enhancing disclosure requirements about the nature of an entitys right to offset and related
arrangements associated with its financial instruments and derivative instruments. The new guidance requires the disclosure of the gross amounts subject to rights of set-off, amounts offset in accordance with the accounting standards followed, and
the related net exposure. The new guidance will be effective for us beginning July1, 2013. Other than requiring additional disclosures, we do not anticipate material impacts on our financial statements upon adoption. 
In September 2011, the FASB issued guidance on testing goodwill for impairment. The new guidance provides an entity the option to first perform a
qualitative assessment to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. If an entity determines that this is the case, it is required to perform the currently prescribed
two-step goodwill impairment test to identify potential goodwill impairment and measure the amount of goodwill impairment loss to be recognized for that reporting unit (if any). If an entity determines that the fair value of a reporting unit is
greater than its carrying amount, the two-step goodwill impairment test is not required. The new guidance will be effective for us beginning July1, 2012.  In June 2011, the FASB issued guidance on presentation of comprehensive income.The new guidance eliminates the current option to report other comprehensive income and its components in the statement of
changes in stockholders equity.Instead, an entity will be required to present either a continuous statement of net income and other comprehensive income or in two separate but consecutive statements.This portion of the guidance
will be effective for us beginning July1, 2012 and will require financial statement presentation changes only. The new guidance also required entities to present reclassification adjustments out of accumulated other comprehensive income by
component in both the statement in which net income is presented and the statement in which other comprehensive income is presented. However, in December 2011, the FASB issued guidance which indefinitely defers the guidance related to the
presentation of reclassification adjustments. 
 56 


Table of Contents


PART II  Item 8  
NOTE 2  EARNINGS PER SHARE 
Basic earnings per share (EPS) is computed based on the weighted average number of shares of common stock
outstanding during the period. Diluted EPS is computed based on the weighted average number of shares of common stock plus the effect of dilutive potential common shares outstanding during the period using the treasury stock method. Dilutive
potential common shares include outstanding stock options, stock awards, and shared performance stock awards. The components of basic and diluted EPS are as follows:  
  We excluded the following shares underlying stock-based
awards from the calculations of diluted EPS because their inclusion would have been anti-dilutive:  
  In June 2010, we issued $1.25 billion of zero-coupon debt
securities that are convertible into shares of our common stock if certain conditions are met.As of June30, 2012, none of these securities had met price or other conditions that would make them eligible for conversion and therefore were
excluded from the calculation of basic and diluted EPS. See Note12 Debt for additional information. 
NOTE 3  OTHER INCOME (EXPENSE) 
The components of other income (expense) were as follows: 


 57 


Table of Contents


PART II  Item 8  
Following are details of net recognized gains on investments during the periods reported:
 

NOTE 4  INVESTMENTS 
Investment Components  The components of
investments, including associated derivatives, were as follows:  

 58 


Table of Contents


PART II  Item 8  
Unrealized Losses on Investments  Investments with continuous unrealized losses for less than 12 months and 12 months or greater and their related fair values were as follows: 

 Unrealized losses from fixed-income securities are primarily attributable to changes in interest rates. Unrealized
losses from domestic and international equities are due to market price movements. Management does not believe any remaining unrealized losses represent other-than-temporary impairments based on our evaluation of available evidence as of
June30, 2012.  At June30, 2012 and 2011, the recorded bases of common and preferred stock and other investments that are
restricted for more than one year or are not publicly traded were $313 million and $334 million, respectively. These investments are carried at cost and are reviewed quarterly for indicators of other-than-temporary impairment. It is not possible for
us to reliably estimate the fair value of these investments.  Debt Investment Maturities 


 59 


Table of Contents


PART II  Item 8  
NOTE 5  DERIVATIVES 
We use derivative instruments to manage risks related to foreign currencies, equity prices, interest rates, and credit; to
enhance investment returns; and to facilitate portfolio diversification. Our objectives for holding derivatives include reducing, eliminating, and efficiently managing the economic impact of these exposures as effectively as possible. Our derivative
programs include strategies that both qualify and do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment. All notional amounts presented below are measured in U.S. currency equivalents.  Foreign Currency  Certain forecasted transactions, assets, and liabilities are exposed to
foreign currency risk. We monitor our foreign currency exposures daily to maximize the economic effectiveness of our foreign currency hedge positions. Option and forward contracts are used to hedge a portion of forecasted international revenue for
up to three years in the future and are designated as cash flow hedging instruments. Principal currencies hedged include the euro, Japanese yen, British pound, and Canadian dollar. As of June30, 2012 and June30, 2011, the total notional
amounts of these foreign exchange contracts sold were $6.7 billion and $10.6 billion, respectively.  Foreign currency risks related to
certain non-U.S. dollar denominated securities are hedged using foreign exchange forward contracts that are designated as fair value hedging instruments. As of June30, 2012 and June30, 2011, the total notional amounts of these foreign
exchange contracts sold were $1.3 billion and $572 million, respectively.  Certain options and forwards not designated as hedging
instruments are also used to manage the variability in exchange rates on accounts receivable, cash, and intercompany positions, and to manage other foreign currency exposures.As of June30, 2012, the total notional amounts of these
foreign exchange contracts purchased and sold were $3.6 billion and $7.3 billion, respectively. As of June30, 2011, the total notional amounts of these foreign exchange contracts purchased and sold were $4.3 billion and $7.1 billion,
respectively.  Equity 
Securities held in our equity and other investments portfolio are subject to market price risk.Market price risk is managed relative to
broad-based global and domestic equity indices using certain convertible preferred investments, options, futures, and swap contracts not designated as hedging instruments. From time to time, to hedge our price risk, we may use and designate equity
derivatives as hedging instruments, including puts, calls, swaps, and forwards.As of June30, 2012, the total notional amounts of designated and non-designated equity contracts purchased and sold were $1.4 billion and $982 million,
respectively. As of June30, 2011, the total notional amounts of designated and non-designated equity contracts purchased and sold were $1.1 billion and $860 million, respectively.  Interest Rate  Securities held in our fixed-income portfolio are subject to different interest
rate risks based on their maturities. We manage the average maturity of our fixed-income portfolio to achieve economic returns that correlate to certain broad-based fixed-income indices using exchange-traded option and futures contracts and
over-the-counter swap and option contracts, none of which are designated as hedging instruments. As of June30, 2012, the total notional amounts of fixed-interest rate contracts purchased and sold were $3.2 billion and $1.9 billion,
respectively. As of June30, 2011, the total notional amounts of fixed-interest rate contracts purchased and sold were $2.3 billion and $697 million, respectively.  In addition, we use To Be Announced forward purchase commitments of mortgage-backed assets to gain exposure to agency mortgage-backed securities.These meet the definition of a derivative
instrument in cases where physical delivery of the assets is not taken at the earliest available delivery date. As of June30, 2012 and 2011, the total notional derivative amount of mortgage contracts purchased were $1.1 billion and $868
million, respectively. 
 60 


Table of Contents


PART II  Item 8  
Credit  Our fixed-income portfolio is diversified and consists primarily of investment-grade securities. We use credit default swap contracts, not designated as hedging instruments, to manage credit exposures relative to
broad-based indices and to facilitate portfolio diversification. We use credit default swaps as they are a low cost method of managing exposure to individual credit risks or groups of credit risks. As of June30, 2012, the total notional
amounts of credit contracts purchased and sold were $318 million and $456 million, respectively. As of June30, 2011, the total notional amounts of credit contracts purchased and sold were $532 million and $281 million, respectively.
 Commodity  We use broad-based
commodity exposures to enhance portfolio returns and to facilitate portfolio diversification. We use swap, futures, and option contracts, not designated as hedging instruments, to generate and manage exposures to broad-based commodity indices. We
use derivatives on commodities as they can be low-cost alternatives to the purchase and storage of a variety of commodities, including, but not limited to, precious metals, energy, and grain. As of June30, 2012, the total notional amounts of
commodity contracts purchased and sold were $1.5 billion and $445 million, respectively. As of June30, 2011, the total notional amounts of commodity contracts purchased and sold were $1.9 billion and $502 million, respectively. 
Credit-Risk-Related Contingent Features 
Certain of our counterparty agreements for derivative instruments contain provisions that require our issued and outstanding long-term unsecured
debt to maintain an investment grade credit rating and require us to maintain a minimum liquidity of $1.0 billion. To the extent we fail to meet these requirements, we will be required to post collateral, similar to the standard convention related
to over-the-counter derivatives. As of June30, 2012, our long-term unsecured debt rating was AAA, and cash investments were in excess of $1.0 billion. As a result, no collateral was required to be posted. 
 61 


Table of Contents


PART II  Item 8  
Fair Values of Derivative Instruments 
The following tables present the gross fair values of derivative instruments designated as hedging instruments (designated hedge
derivatives) and not designated as hedging instruments (non-designated hedge derivatives). The fair values exclude the impact of netting derivative assets and liabilities when a legally enforceable master netting agreement exists
and fair value adjustments related to our own credit risk and counterparty credit risk:  
 See also Note 4  Investments and Note6 Fair Value Measurements. 
 62 


Table of Contents


PART II  Item 8  
Fair Value Hedge Gains (Losses)  We recognized in other income (expense) the following gains (losses) on contracts designated as fair value hedges and their related hedged items: 

 Cash Flow Hedge Gains (Losses)  We recognized the following gains (losses) on foreign exchange contracts designated as cash flow hedges (our only cash flow hedges during the periods presented): 

  We estimate that $137 million of net derivative gains
included in OCI at June30, 2012 will be reclassified into earnings within the following 12 months. No significant amounts of gains (losses) were reclassified from OCI into earnings as a result of forecasted transactions that failed to occur
during fiscal year 2012.  Non-Designated Derivative Gains (Losses)  Gains (losses) from changes in fair values of derivatives that are not designated as hedges are primarily recognized in other income (expense). These amounts are shown in the table below, with the exception of
gains (losses) on derivatives presented in income statement line items other than other income (expense), which were immaterial for the periods presented. Other than those derivatives entered into for investment purposes, such as commodity
contracts, the gains (losses) below are generally economically offset by unrealized gains (losses) in the underlying available-for-sale securities.  

 63 


Table of Contents


PART II  Item 8  
NOTE 6  FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS 
Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis 
The following tables present the fair value of our financial instruments that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis: 

  

 64 


Table of Contents


PART II  Item 8  
The following table reconciles the total Net Fair Value of assets above to the balance sheet
presentation of these same assets in Note 4  Investments.  
 Changes in Financial Instruments Measured at Level 3 Fair Value on a Recurring Basis 
The following tables present the changes during the periods presented in our Level 3 financial instruments that are measured at fair value on a
recurring basis. The majority of these instruments consist of investment securities classified as available-for-sale with changes in fair value included in OCI.  
  Financial Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a
Nonrecurring Basis  During fiscal year 2012 and 2011, we did not record any material other-than-temporary impairments on financial
assets required to be measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis. 
 65 


Table of Contents


PART II  Item 8  
NOTE 7  INVENTORIES 
The components of inventories were as follows:  

NOTE 8  PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT 
The components of property and equipment were as follows: 

 During fiscal years 2012, 2011, and 2010, depreciation expense was $2.2 billion, $2.0 billion, and $1.8 billion,
respectively. 
NOTE 9  BUSINESS COMBINATIONS 
Skype  On
October13, 2011, we acquired all of the issued and outstanding shares of Skype Global S. r.l. (Skype), a leading global provider of software applications and related Internet communications products based in Luxembourg, for
$8.6 billion, primarily in cash. The major classes of assets and liabilities to which we allocated the purchase price were goodwill of $7.1 billion, identifiable intangible assets of $1.6 billion, and unearned revenue of $222 million. The goodwill
recognized in connection with the acquisition is primarily attributable to our expectation of extending Skypes brand and the reach of its networked platform, while enhancing Microsofts existing portfolio of real-time communications
products and services. We assigned the goodwill to the following segments: $4.2 billion to Entertainment and Devices Division, $2.8 billion to Microsoft Business Division, and $54 million to Online Services Division. Skype was consolidated into our
results of operations starting October13, 2011, the acquisition date.  Following are the details of the purchase price allocated
to the intangible assets acquired:  

 66 


Table of Contents


PART II  Item 8  
Other  During fiscal year 2012, we completed an additional four acquisitions for total consideration of $87 million, substantially all of which was paid in cash. During fiscal year 2011, we acquired three entities for
total consideration of $75 million, substantially all of which was paid in cash. During fiscal year 2010, we acquired five entities for total consideration of $267 million, substantially all of which was paid in cash. During fiscal year 2010, we
also sold three entities for total consideration of $600 million, including Razorfish in the second quarter of fiscal year 2010. These entities have been included in or removed from our consolidated results of operations since their acquisition or
sale dates, respectively.  Pro forma results of operations have not been presented because the effects of the business combinations
described in this Note, individually and in aggregate, were not material to our consolidated results of operations. 
NOTE 10  GOODWILL 
Changes in the carrying amount of goodwill by segment were as follows: 

 The measurement periods for purchase price allocations end as soon as information on the facts and circumstances
becomes available, but do not exceed 12 months. Adjustments in purchase price allocations may require a recasting of the amounts allocated to goodwill retroactive to the periods in which the acquisitions occurred. 
Any change in the goodwill amounts resulting from foreign currency translations are presented as other in the above table. Also
included within other are business dispositions and transfers between business segments due to reorganizations, as applicable. For fiscal year 2012, a $6.2 billion goodwill impairment charge is included in other, as discussed
further below. This goodwill impairment charge also represents our accumulated goodwill impairment as of June30, 2012.  Goodwill Impairment
 We tested goodwill for impairment as of May1, 2012 at the reporting unit level using a discounted cash flow methodology with a
peer-based, risk-adjusted weighted average cost of capital. We believe use of a discounted cash flow approach is the most reliable indicator of the fair values of the businesses. 
Upon completion of the annual test, OSD goodwill was determined to be impaired. The impairment was the result of the OSD unit experiencing slower
than projected growth in search queries and search advertising revenue per query, slower growth in display revenue, and changes in the timing and implementation of certain initiatives designed to drive search and display revenue growth in the
future. Although revenues increased compared to the prior year, the industry is highly competitive and certain operational challenges have affected our expectations such that future growth and profitability are lower than previous estimates. In
addition, in the current year, we added a business-specific risk factor to the weighted average cost of capital used to calculate the discounted cash flows of OSD in estimating the fair value of the business. This business-specific risk factor
reflects the increased uncertainty in forecasting the future performance of OSD. 
 67 


Table of Contents


PART II  Item 8  
Because our annual test indicated that OSDs carrying value exceeded its estimated fair
value, a second phase of the goodwill impairment test (Step 2) was performed specific to OSD. Under Step 2, the fair value of all OSD assets and liabilities were estimated, including tangible assets, existing technology, trade names, and
partner relationships for the purpose of deriving an estimate of the implied fair value of goodwill. The implied fair value of the goodwill was then compared to the recorded goodwill to determine the amount of the impairment. Assumptions used in
measuring the value of these assets and liabilities included the discount rates, royalty rates, and obsolescence rates used in valuing the intangible assets, and pricing of comparable transactions in the market in valuing the tangible assets.
 No other instances of impairment were identified in our May1, 2012 test. 
NOTE 11  INTANGIBLE ASSETS 
The components of intangible assets, all of which are finite-lived, were as follows: 

 
 We estimate that we have no significant residual value
related to our intangible assets. No material impairments of intangible assets were identified during any of the periods presented.  The
components of intangible assets acquired during the periods presented were as follows:  
 Intangible assets amortization expense was $558 million, $537 million, and $707 million for fiscal years 2012,
2011, and 2010, respectively. Amortization of capitalized software was $117 million, $114 million, and $97 million for fiscal years 2012, 2011, and 2010, respectively. 
 68 


Table of Contents


PART II  Item 8  
The following table outlines the estimated future amortization expense related to intangible
assets held at June30, 2012:  

NOTE 12  DEBT 
As of June30, 2012, the total carrying value and estimated fair value of our long-term debt, including the current
portion, were $11.9 billion and $13.2 billion, respectively. This is compared to a carrying value and estimated fair value of $11.9 billion and $12.1 billion, respectively, as of June30, 2011. These estimated fair values are based on Level 2
inputs.  The components of our long-term debt, including the current portion, and the associated interest rates and semi-annual interest
record and payment dates were as follows as of June30, 2012 and 2011:  
 As of June30, 2012 and 2011, the aggregate unamortized discount for our long-term debt, including the current
portion, was $56 million and $79 million, respectively.  Notes  The Notes are senior unsecured obligations and rank equally with our other unsecured and unsubordinated debt outstanding. 
 69 


Table of Contents


PART II  Item 8  
Convertible Debt  In June 2010, we issued $1.25 billion of zero coupon convertible unsecured debt due on June15, 2013 in a private placement offering. Proceeds from the offering were $1.24 billion, net of fees and expenses,
which were capitalized. Initially, each $1,000 principal amount of notes was convertible into 29.94 shares of Microsoft common stock at a conversion price of $33.40 per share. The conversion ratio is adjusted periodically for dividends in excess of
the initial dividend threshold as defined in the debt agreement. As of June30, 2012, the net carrying amount of our convertible debt was $1.2 billion and the unamortized discount was $19 million. 
Prior to March15, 2013, the notes will be convertible, only in certain circumstances, into cash and, if applicable, cash, shares of
Microsofts common stock, or a combination thereof, at our election. On or after March15, 2013, the notes will be convertible at any time. Upon conversion, we will pay cash up to the aggregate principal amount of the notes and pay or
deliver cash, shares of our common stock, or a combination of cash and shares of our common stock, at our election.  Because the
convertible debt may be wholly or partially settled in cash, we are required to separately account for the liability and equity components of the notes in a manner that reflects our nonconvertible debt borrowing rate when interest costs are
recognized in subsequent periods. The net proceeds of $1.24 billion were allocated between debt for $1.18 billion and stockholders equity for $58 million with the portion in stockholders equity representing the fair value of the option
to convert the debt.  In connection with the issuance of the notes, we entered into capped call transactions with certain option
counterparties who are initial purchasers of the notes or their affiliates. The capped call transactions are expected to reduce potential dilution of earnings per share upon conversion of the notes. Under the capped call transactions, we purchased
from the option counterparties capped call options that in the aggregate relate to the total number of shares of our common stock underlying the notes, with a strike price equal to the conversion price of the notes and with an initial cap price
equal to $37.16, which is adjusted periodically to mirror any adjustments to the conversion price. The purchased capped calls were valued at $40 million and recorded to stockholders equity. 
Debt Service  Maturities of our long-term
debt for each of the next five years and thereafter are as follows:  
 Cash paid for interest on our debt for fiscal years 2012, 2011, and 2010 was $344 million, $197 million, and $145
million, respectively. 
 70 


Table of Contents


PART II  Item 8  
NOTE 13  INCOME TAXES 
The components of the provision for income taxes were as follows: 

 U.S. and international components of income before income taxes were as follows: 

 The items accounting for the difference between income taxes computed at the U.S. federal statutory rate and our
effective rate were as follows:  
 The reduction from the federal statutory rate from foreign earnings taxed at lower rates results from producing and
distributing our products and services through our foreign regional operations centers in Ireland, Singapore, and Puerto Rico, which have lower income tax rates. In general, other reconciling items consist of interest, U.S. state income taxes,
domestic production deductions, and credits. In fiscal years 2012, 2011, and 2010, there were no individually significant other reconciling items. The I.R.S. settlement is discussed below. 
 71 


Table of Contents


PART II  Item 8  
The components of the deferred income tax assets and liabilities were as follows: 

 The valuation allowance disclosed in the table above relates to a portion of a $2.0 billion net operating loss
carryforward generated primarily in foreign countries and acquired primarily through our acquisition of Skype that may not be realized. 
Deferred income tax balances reflect the effects of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities and their tax
bases and are stated at enacted tax rates expected to be in effect when the taxes are actually paid or recovered.  As of June30,
2012, we have not provided deferred U.S. income taxes or foreign withholding taxes on temporary differences of approximately $60.8 billion resulting from earnings for certain non-U.S. subsidiaries which are permanently reinvested outside the U.S.
The unrecognized deferred tax liability associated with these temporary differences was approximately $19.4 billion at June30, 2012.  Income taxes paid were $3.5 billion, $5.3 billion, and $4.1 billion in fiscal years 2012, 2011, and 2010, respectively.  Uncertain Tax Positions  As of June30, 2012, we had $7.2 billion of unrecognized tax
benefits of which $6.2 billion, if recognized, would affect our effective tax rate. As of June30, 2011, we had $6.9 billion of unrecognized tax benefits of which $5.9 billion, if recognized, would have affected our effective tax rate.
 Interest on unrecognized tax benefits was $154 million, $38 million, and $193 million in fiscal years 2012, 2011, and 2010,
respectively. As of June30, 2012, 2011, and 2010, we had accrued interest related to uncertain tax positions of $939 million, $785 million, and $747 million, respectively, net of federal income tax benefits. 
 72 


Table of Contents


PART II  Item 8  
The aggregate changes in the balance of unrecognized tax benefits were as follows: 

 During the third quarter of fiscal year 2011, we reached a settlement of a portion of an I.R.S. audit of tax years
2004 to 2006, which reduced our income tax expense by $461 million. While we settled a portion of the I.R.S. audit, we remain under audit for these years. In February 2012, the I.R.S. withdrew its 2011 Revenue Agents Report and reopened the audit
phase of the examination. As of June30, 2012, the primary unresolved issue relates to transfer pricing, which could have a significant impact on our financial statements if not resolved favorably. We believe our allowances for tax
contingencies are appropriate. We do not believe it is reasonably possible that the total amount of unrecognized tax benefits will significantly increase or decrease within the next 12 months, as we do not believe the remaining open issues will be
resolved within the next 12 months. We also continue to be subject to examination by the I.R.S. for tax years 2007 to 2011.  We are
subject to income tax in many jurisdictions outside the U.S. Certain jurisdictions remain subject to examination for tax years 1996 to 2011, some of which are currently under audit by local tax authorities. The resolutions of these audits are not
expected to be material to our financial statements. 
NOTE 14  UNEARNED REVENUE 
Unearned revenue comprises mainly unearned revenue from volume licensing programs, and payments for offerings for which we have
been paid in advance and we earn the revenue when we provide the service or software or otherwise meet the revenue recognition criteria.  Volume
Licensing Programs  Unearned revenue from volume licensing programs represents customer billings for multi-year licensing
arrangements paid either at inception of the agreement or annually at the beginning of each billing coverage period and accounted for as subscriptions with revenue recognized ratably over the billing coverage period. 
Other  Also included in unearned revenue
are payments for post-delivery support and consulting services to be performed in the future; Xbox LIVE subscriptions and prepaid points; sales of Windows 7 with an option to upgrade to Windows8 at a discounted price (the Windows Upgrade
Offer); Microsoft Dynamics business solutions products; Skype prepaid credits and subscriptions; OEM minimum commitments; and other offerings for which we have been paid in advance and earn the revenue when we provide the service or software,
or otherwise meet the revenue recognition criteria. 
 73 


Table of Contents


PART II  Item 8  
The components of unearned revenue were as follows: 

 

Unearned revenue by segment was as follows:  
 Fiscal year 2011 amounts have been recast for the fiscal year 2012 movement of Forefront Protection for Office, an
anti-malware solution, from Server and Tools to the Microsoft Business Division. 
NOTE 15  OTHER LONG-TERM LIABILITIES 


NOTE 16  COMMITMENTS AND GUARANTEES 
Construction and Operating Leases  We have committed $353 million for constructing new buildings, building improvements, and leasehold improvements as of June30, 2012. 
 74 


Table of Contents


PART II  Item 8  
We have operating leases for most U.S. and international sales and support offices and certain
equipment. Rental expense for facilities operating leases was $639 million, $525 million, and $530 million, in fiscal years 2012, 2011, and 2010, respectively. Future minimum rental commitments under noncancellable facilities operating leases in
place as of June30, 2012 are as follows:  
 Indemnifications  We provide indemnifications of varying scope and size to certain customers against claims of intellectual property infringement made by third parties arising from the use of our products and certain other matters.
We evaluate estimated losses for these indemnifications, and we consider such factors as the degree of probability of an unfavorable outcome and the ability to make a reasonable estimate of the amount of loss. To date, we have not encountered
significant costs as a result of these obligations and have not accrued any liabilities related to these indemnifications in our financial statements. 
Yahoo! Commercial Agreement  On
December4, 2009, we entered into a 10-year agreement with Yahoo! Inc. (Yahoo!) whereby Microsoft will provide the exclusive algorithmic and paid search platform for Yahoo! websites. Microsoft provided Yahoo! with revenue per search
guarantees for a period of 18 months after implementation of the Microsoft search ads platform in each country, extended by an additional 12 months for the U.S. and Canada. These guarantees are calculated, paid, and adjusted periodically and are
rate guarantees, not guarantees of search volume. We estimate the remaining cost of the revenue per search guarantees during the guarantee period could range up to $120 million. 
NOTE 17  CONTINGENCIES 
Antitrust, Unfair Competition, and Overcharge Class Actions  A large number of antitrust and unfair competition class action lawsuits were filed against us in various state, federal, and Canadian courts on behalf of various classes of direct and indirect purchasers of our PC
operating system and certain other software products between 1999 and 2005. We obtained dismissals or reached settlements of all claims made in the United States.  All settlements in the United States have received final court approval. Under the settlements, generally class members can obtain vouchers that entitle them to be reimbursed for purchases of a wide variety of
platform-neutral computer hardware and software. The total value of vouchers that we may issue varies by state. We will make available to certain schools a percentage of those vouchers that are not issued or claimed (one-half to two-thirds depending
on the state). The total value of vouchers we ultimately issue will depend on the number of class members who make claims and are issued vouchers. The maximum value of vouchers to be issued is approximately $2.7 billion. The actual costs of these
settlements will be less than that maximum amount, depending on the number of class members and schools that are issued and redeem vouchers. We estimate the total cost to resolve all of the state overcharge class action cases will range between $1.9
billion and $2.0 billion. At June30, 2012, we have recorded a liability related to these claims of approximately $500 million, which reflects our estimated exposure of $1.9 billion less payments made to date of approximately $1.4 billion
mostly for vouchers, legal fees, and administrative expenses. 
 75 


Table of Contents


PART II  Item 8  
The three cases pending in British Columbia, Ontario, and Quebec, Canada have not been settled. In
March 2010, the court in the British Columbia case certified it as a class action. In April2011, the British Columbia Court of Appeal reversed the class certification ruling and dismissed the case, holding that indirect purchasers do not have
a claim. The plaintiffs have appealed to the Canadian Supreme Court, which will be heard in the fall of 2012. The other two actions have been stayed. 
Other Antitrust Litigation and Claims  In
November 2004, Novell, Inc. (Novell) filed a complaint in U.S. District Court for the District of Utah (later transferred to federal court in Maryland), asserting antitrust and unfair competition claims against us related to
Novells ownership of WordPerfect and other productivity applications during the period between June 1994 and March 1996. In June 2005, the trial court granted our motion to dismiss four of six claims of the complaint. In March2010, the
trial court granted summary judgment in favor of Microsoft as to all remaining claims. The court of appeals reversed that ruling as to one claim. Trial of that claim took place from October to December 2011 and resulted in a mistrial because the
jury was unable to reach a verdict. In July 2012, the trial court granted Microsofts motion for judgment as a matter of law. Novell may appeal this decision.  Government Competition Law Matters  In December 2009, the European Commission adopted a
decision that rendered legally binding commitments offered by Microsoft to address the Commissions concerns about the inclusion of Web browsing software in Windows.Among other things, Microsoft committed to display a Browser Choice
Screen on Windows-based PCs in Europe where Internet Explorer is set as the default browser. Due to a technical error, we failed to deliver the requisite software to enable that display to PCs that came preinstalled with a version of Windows 7
called Windows 7 Service Pack 1. We did deliver the requisite software to PCs running the original version of Windows 7 and earlier editions of Windows. Following notification by the Commission of reports that some PCs were not receiving the update,
we promptly fixed the error and advised the Commission of what we had discovered. PCs that come preinstalled with Windows 7 Service Pack are now receiving the Browser Choice Screen software, as intended.On July17, 2012, the Commission
announced that it had opened proceedings to investigate whether Microsoft had failed to comply with this commitment. The Commission stated that if a company is found to have breached a legally binding commitment, the company may be fined up to 10%
of its worldwide annual revenue.  Patent and Intellectual Property Claims  Motorola Litigation  In October 2010, Microsoft filed patent infringement complaints against
Motorola Mobility (Motorola) with the International Trade Commission (ITC) and in U.S. District Court in Seattle for infringement of nine Microsoft patents by Motorolas Android devices. Since then, Microsoft and
Motorola have filed additional claims against each other in the ITC, in federal district courts in Seattle, Wisconsin, Florida, and California, and in courts in Germany and the United Kingdom. In April 2012, following complaints by Microsoft and
Apple, the European Unions competition office opened two antitrust investigations against Motorola to determine whether it has abused certain of its standard essential patents to distort competition in breach of European Union antitrust rules.
In June 2012, we received a request for information from the U.S. Federal Trade Commission (FTC) apparently related to an FTC investigation into whether Motorolas conduct violates U.S. law. The nature of the claims asserted and
status of individual matters are summarized below.  International Trade Commission 
The hearing in Microsofts ITC case against Motorola took place in August 2011 on seven of the nine patents originally asserted in the
complaint. In December 2011, the administrative law judge (ALJ) issued an initial determination that Motorola infringed one Microsoft patent, and recommended that the ITC issue a limited exclusion

 76 


Table of Contents


PART II  Item 8  

order against Motorola prohibiting importation of infringing Motorola Android devices. In May 2012, the ITC issued the limited exclusion order recommended by the ALJ, which became effective on
July18, 2012.Microsoft has appealed certain aspects of the ITC ruling adverse to Microsoft; Motorola is expected to appeal the ITC exclusion order.  In November 2010, Motorola filed an action against Microsoft in the ITC alleging infringement of five Motorola patents by Xbox consoles and accessories and seeking an exclusion order to prohibit importation of the
allegedly infringing Xbox products into the U.S. In April 2012, the ALJ found that Xbox products infringe four of the five patents asserted by Motorola. The ALJ subsequently recommended that the ITC issue a limited exclusion order and a cease and
desist order. Both Microsoft and Motorola sought ITC review of the ALJs findings. In June 2012, Microsoft filed a motion to terminate the investigation as to certain patents based on facts arising as the result of Googles acquisition of
Motorola. The ITC determined that it would review the ALJs initial determination in its entirety and remanded the matter to the ALJ (1)to apply certain ITC case precedent, (2)to rule on Microsofts June 2012 motion to
terminate, and (3)set a new target date for completion of the investigation. If the ITC issues an exclusion order or cease and desist order, it will be subject to Presidential review for up to 60 days, during which it is expected that
Microsoft could import Xbox products subject to posting a bond. Should any order issue and survive Presidential review, Microsoft may be able to mitigate its impact by altering Xbox products so they do not infringe the Motorola patents. 
U.S. District Court  The Seattle District
Court case filed in October 2010 by Microsoft as a companion to Microsofts ITC case against Motorola has been stayed pending the outcome of Microsofts ITC case.  In November 2010, Microsoft sued Motorola for breach of contract in U.S. District Court in Seattle, alleging that Motorola breached its commitments to standards-setting organizations to license to Microsoft certain
patents on reasonable and non-discriminatory (RAND) terms and conditions. Motorola has declared these patents essential to the implementation of the H.264 video standard and the 802.11 Wi-Fi standard. In suits described below, Motorola
or a Motorola affiliate subsequently sued Microsoft on those patents in U.S. District Courts, in the ITC, and in Germany. In February 2012, the Seattle District Court granted a partial summary judgment in favor of Microsoft ruling that
(1)Motorola entered into binding contractual commitments with standards organizations committing to license its declared-essential patents on RAND terms and conditions; and (2)Microsoft is a third-party beneficiary of those commitments.
Subsequently, the court rejected Motorolas argument that Microsoft had repudiated its right to a RAND license, and ruled a trial is needed to determine whether Motorola is in breach of its obligation to enter into a patent license with
Microsoft and, if so, the amount of the RAND royalty. In April 2012, the court issued a temporary restraining order preventing Motorola from taking steps to enforce an injunction in Germany relating to the H.264 video patents. In May 2012, the court
converted that order into a preliminary injunction.Motorola has appealed the courts injunction orders to the Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit.The Seattle court has set a trial to determine the RAND royalty to begin in
November 2012.  Cases filed by Motorola in Wisconsin, California, and Florida, with the exception of one currently stayed case in
Wisconsin (a companion case to Motorolas ITC action), have been transferred at Microsofts request to the U.S District Court in Seattle. Motorola and Microsoft both seek damages as well as injunctive relief. No trial dates have been set
in any of the transferred cases, and the parties have agreed to a stay of these cases.  


 

 77 


Table of Contents


PART II  Item 8  
Germany  In July 2011, Motorola filed patent infringement actions in Germany against Microsoft and several Microsoft subsidiaries.  
 
 
 In lawsuits Microsoft filed in Germany in September, October, and December 2011 and in
April 2012, Microsoft asserts Motorola Android devices infringe Microsoft patents. Microsoft seeks damages and an injunction. In May 2012, the court issued an injunction on one patent against Motorola Android devices in Germany and ruled against
Microsoft on a second patent. If the court rules in favor of Microsoft in a given case, an injunction could be issued immediately relating to the sale of the infringing devices in Germany, which Microsoft could then take steps to enforce. Damages
would be determined in later proceedings. Motorola has appealed the first instance courts ruling in Microsofts favor.  United Kingdom
 In December 2011, Microsoft filed an action against Motorola in the High Court of Justice, Chancery Division, Patents Court, in
London, England, seeking to revoke the UK part of the European patent asserted by Motorola in Germany against the ActiveSync protocol. In February 2012, Motorola counterclaimed alleging infringement of the patent and seeking damages and an
injunction. A trial is expected in December 2012.  Other Patent and Intellectual Property Claims 
In addition to these cases, there are approximately 60 other patent infringement cases pending against Microsoft. 
Other  We also are subject to a variety of
other claims and suits that arise from time to time in the ordinary course of our business. Although management currently believes that resolving claims against us, individually or in aggregate, will not have a material adverse impact on our
financial statements, these matters are subject to inherent uncertainties and managements view of these matters may change in the future.  As of June30, 2012, we had accrued aggregate liabilities of $384 million in other current liabilities and $220 million in other long-term liabilities for all of our contingent legal matters. While we intend
to defend these matters vigorously, adverse outcomes that we estimate could reach approximately $550 million in aggregate beyond recorded amounts are reasonably possible. Were unfavorable final outcomes to occur, there exists the possibility of a
material adverse impact on our financial statements for the period in which the effects become reasonably estimable. 
 78 


Table of Contents


PART II  Item 8  
NOTE 18  STOCKHOLDERS EQUITY 
Shares Outstanding 
Shares of common stock outstanding were as follows:  
 Share Repurchases  On September22, 2008, we announced that our Board of Directors approved a share repurchase program authorizing up to $40.0 billion in share repurchases with an expiration date of September30, 2013. As
of June30, 2012, approximately $8.2 billion of the approved repurchase amount remained. The repurchase program may be suspended or discontinued at any time without prior notice. 
We repurchased the following shares of common stock under the above-described repurchase plan using cash resources: 

 Dividends 
In fiscal year 2012, our Board of Directors declared the following dividends: 

  The dividend declared on June13, 2012 will be paid
after the filing date of this report on Form 10-K and was included in other current liabilities as of June30, 2012.  In fiscal
year 2011, our Board of Directors declared the following dividends:  
 
 79 


Table of Contents


PART II  Item 8  
The dividend declared on June15, 2011 was included in other current liabilities as of
June30, 2011. 
NOTE 19  OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS) 
The activity in other comprehensive income (loss) and related income tax effects were as follows: 

 The components of accumulated other comprehensive income were as follows: 


NOTE 20  EMPLOYEE STOCK AND SAVINGS PLANS 
We grant stock-based compensation to directors and employees. At June30, 2012, an aggregate of 507million shares
were authorized for future grant under our stock plans, covering stock options, stock awards, and shared performance stock awards, and excluding shares reserved for issuance under our employee stock purchase plan. Awards that expire or are canceled
without delivery of shares generally become available for issuance under the plans. We issue new shares of Microsoft common stock to satisfy exercises and vestings of awards granted under all of our stock plans. 
Stock-based compensation expense and related income tax benefits were as follows: 

 
 80 


Table of Contents


PART II  Item 8  
Stock Plans (Excluding Stock Options)  Stock awards  Stock awards (SAs) are grants that entitle the holder to shares of
Microsoft common stock as the award vests. Our SAs generally vest over a five-year period.  Shared performance stock awards 
Shared performance stock awards (SPSAs) are a form of SA in which the number of shares ultimately received depends on our business
performance against specified performance targets.  We granted SPSAs for fiscal years 2012, 2011, and 2010 with performance periods of
July1, 2011 through June30, 2012,July1, 2010 through June30, 2011, and July1, 2009 through June30, 2010, respectively. In August following the end of each performance period, the number of shares of stock
subject to the award is determined by multiplying the target award by a percentage ranging from 0% to 150%. The percentage is based on performance metrics for the performance period, as determined by the Compensation Committee of the Board of
Directors in its sole discretion. An additional number of shares, approximately 12% of the total target SPSAs, are available as additional awards to participants based on individual performance. One-quarter of the shares of stock subject to each
award vest following the end of the performance period, and an additional one-quarter of the shares vest on each of the following three anniversaries of the grant date.  Executive officer incentive plan  Under the Executive Officer Incentive Plan
(EOIP), the Compensation Committee awards performance-based compensation to executive officers for specified performance periods.During the periods reported, executive officers were eligible to receive annual awards comprising cash
and SAs from an aggregate incentive pool equal to a percentage of consolidated operating income. For fiscal years 2012, 2011, and 2010, the pool was 0.3%, 0.25%, and 0.45% of operating income, respectively. 
In September following the end of the fiscal year, each executive officer may receive a combined cash and SA award with a total value equal to a
fixed percentage of the aggregate pool. The fixed percentage ranges between 0% and 150% of a target based on an assessment of the executive officers performance during the prior fiscal year. Following approval of the awards, 20% of the award
is payable to the executive officers in cash, and the remaining 80% is converted into an SA for shares of Microsoft common stock. The number of shares subject to the SA portion of the award is determined by dividing the value of 80% of the total
award by the closing price of Microsoft common stock on the last business day in Augustof each year. The SA portion of the award vests one-quarter immediately after the award is approved following fiscal year-endand one-quarter on
August31 of each of the following three years.  Activity for all stock plans 
The fair value of each award was estimated on the date of grant using the following assumptions: 

 
 81 


Table of Contents


PART II  Item 8  
During fiscal year 2012, the following activity occurred under our stock plans: 

 As of June30, 2012, there was $4.4 billion and $495 million of total unrecognized compensation costs related
to SAs and SPSAs, respectively. These costs are expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of 2.9 years and 2.5 years, respectively.  During fiscal year 2011 and 2010, the following activity occurred under our stock plans:  
  Following are the fair values of stock plan awards vested
during the periods reported:  
  Stock Options 
Currently, we grant stock options primarily in conjunction with business acquisitions. We granted six million, zero, and onemillion stock
options in conjunction with business acquisitions during fiscal years 2012, 2011, and 2010, respectively. 
 82 


Table of Contents


PART II  Item 8  
Employee stock options activity during 2012 was as follows: 

  As of June30, 2012 approximately sixmillion
options that were granted in conjunction with business acquisitions were outstanding. These options have an exercise price range of $0.01 to $29.24 and a weighted average exercise price of $9.33. 
During the periods reported, the following stock option exercise activity occurred: 

  Employee Stock Purchase Plan 
We have an employee stock purchase plan (the Plan) for all eligible employees. Shares of our common stock may be purchased by employees
at three-month intervals at 90% of the fair market value on the last trading day of each three-month period. Employees may purchase shares having a value not exceeding 15% of their gross compensation during an offering period. Under the terms of the
Plan that were approved in 2002, the Plan will terminate on December31, 2012.Microsoft intends to request shareholder approval to renew the Plan and reserve additional shares for issuance under the Plan before December31, 2012.
Employees purchased the following shares during the periods presented:  
  At June30, 2012, 23million shares of our
common stock were reserved for future issuance through the Plan.  Savings Plan 
We have a savings plan in the U.S. that qualifies under Section401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code, and a number of savings plans in
international locations. Participating U.S. employees may contribute up to 50% of their salary, but not more than statutory limits. We contribute fifty cents for each dollar a participant contributes in this plan, with a maximum contribution of 3%
of a participants earnings. Matching contributions for all plans were $373 million, $282 million, and $275 million in fiscal years 2012, 2011, and 2010, respectively, and were expensed as contributed. Matching contributions are invested
proportionate to each participants voluntary contributions in the investment options provided under the plan. Investment options in the U.S. plan include Microsoft common stock, but neither participant nor our matching contributions are
required to be invested in Microsoft common stock. 
 83 


Table of Contents


PART II  Item 8  
NOTE 21  SEGMENT INFORMATION AND GEOGRAPHIC DATA 
In its operation of the business, management, including our chief operating decision maker, the companys Chief Executive
Officer, reviews certain financial information, including segmented internal profit and loss statements prepared on a basis not consistent with U.S. GAAP. The segment information within this note is reported on that basis. Our five segments are
Windows& Windows Live Division; Server and Tools; Online Services Division; Microsoft Business Division; and Entertainment and Devices Division.  Due to the integrated structure of our business, certain revenue earned and costs incurred by one segment may benefit other segments. Revenue on certain contracts may be allocated among the segments based on the
relative value of the underlying products and services. Costs that are identifiable are allocated to the segments that benefit to incent cross-collaboration among our segments so that one segment is not solely burdened by the cost of a mutually
beneficial activity. Allocated costs may include those relating to development and marketing of products and services from which multiple segments benefit, or those costs relating to services performed by one segment on behalf of other segments.
Each allocation is measured differently based on the specific facts and circumstances of the costs being allocated.  In addition,
certain costs incurred at a corporate level that are identifiable and that benefit our segments are allocated to them. These allocated costs include costs of: field selling; employee benefits; shared facilities services; and customer service and
support. Each allocation is measured differently based on the specific facts and circumstances of the costs being allocated. Certain other corporate-level activity is not allocated to our segments, including costs of: broad-based sales and
marketing; product support services; human resources; legal; finance; information technology; corporate development and procurement activities; research and development; legal settlements and contingencies; and employee severance. 
We have recast certain prior period amounts within this note to conform to the way we internally managed and monitored segment performance during
the current fiscal year, including moving Forefront Protection for Office, an anti-malware solution, from Server and Tools to the Microsoft Business Division, as well as conforming management reporting and U.S. GAAP reporting for stock-based
compensation.  The principal products and services provided by each segment are summarized below: 
Windows& Windows Live Division  Windows& Windows Live Division offerings consist of the Windows 7 operating
system, software and services through Windows Live, and PC hardware products.  Server and Tools  Server and Tools product
and service offerings include Windows Server, Windows Azure, Microsoft SQL Server, Windows Embedded device platforms, and Enterprise Services. Enterprise Services comprise Premier product support services and Microsoft Consulting Services.
 Online Services Division  Online Services Division offerings include Bing, MSN, and advertiser tools. 
Microsoft Business Division  Microsoft Business Division offerings include Microsoft Office, SharePoint, Exchange, Lync, and Microsoft
Dynamics business solutions.  Entertainment and Devices Division  Entertainment and Devices Division offerings include the
Xbox 360 entertainment platform, including Kinect for Xbox 360, Skype, and Windows Phone. 
 84 


Table of Contents


PART II  Item 8  
Segment revenue and operating income (loss) were as follows during the periods presented:
 
 
 Reconciling amounts in the tables above and below include adjustments to conform our internal accounting policies
to U.S. GAAP and corporate-level activity not specifically attributed to a segment. Significant internal accounting policies that differ from U.S. GAAP relate to revenue recognition, income statement classification, and depreciation. 
Significant reconciling items were as follows:  
 

 85 


Table of Contents


PART II  Item 8  
No sales to an individual customer or country other than the United States accounted for more than
10% of fiscal year 2012, 2011, or 2010 revenue. Revenue, classified by the major geographic areas in which our customers are located, was as follows:  
 
 Revenue from external customers, classified by significant product and service
offerings were as follows:  
 Assets are not allocated to segments for internal reporting presentations. A portion of amortization and
depreciation is included with various other costs in an overhead allocation to each segment, and it is impracticable for us to separately identify the amount of amortization and depreciation by segment that is included in the measure of segment
profit or loss.  Long-lived assets, excluding financial instruments and tax assets, classified by the location of the controlling
statutory company and with countries over 10% of the total shown separately, were as follows:  

NOTE 22  SUBSEQUENT EVENT 
Acquisition of Yammer 
On July18, 2012, we acquired Yammer, Inc. (Yammer), a leading provider of enterprise social networks, for $1.2 billion in cash.
Yammer will continue to develop its standalone service and will add enterprise social networking services to Microsofts portfolio of complementary cloud-based services. 
 86 


Table of Contents


PART II  Item 8  
NOTE 23  QUARTERLY INFORMATION (UNAUDITED) 

  



 87 


Table of Contents


PART II  Item 8  
REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 
To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of Microsoft Corporation:  We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Microsoft Corporation and subsidiaries (the Company) as of June30, 2012 and 2011, and the related consolidated statements of income,
cash flows, and stockholders equity for each of the three years in the period ended June30, 2012.These financial statements are the responsibility of the Companys management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on
these financial statements based on our audits.  We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board (United States).Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement.An audit includes examining, on
a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial
statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.  In our opinion, such consolidated
financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Microsoft Corporation and subsidiaries as of June30, 2012 and 2011, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years
in the period ended June30, 2012, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.  We
have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the Companys internal control over financial reporting as of June30, 2012, based on the criteria established in
Internal Control  Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our report dated July26, 2012, expressed an unqualified opinion on the Companys internal control over
financial reporting.  /S/DELOITTE& TOUCHE LLP 
Seattle, Washington  July26,
2012 
 88 


Table of Contents


PART II  Item 9, 9A  
ITEM9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON
ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE  Not applicable.  ITEM9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES  Under the supervision and
with the participation of our management, including the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, we have evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures as required by Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(b) as of the end of
the period covered by this report. Based on that evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have concluded that these disclosure controls and procedures are effective. 
REPORT OF MANAGEMENT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING 
Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting for the company. Internal control
over financial reporting is a process to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of our financial reporting for external purposes in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Internal
control over financial reporting includes maintaining records that in reasonable detail accurately and fairly reflect our transactions; providing reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary for preparation of our financial
statements; providing reasonable assurance that receipts and expenditures of company assets are made in accordance with management authorization; and providing reasonable assurance that unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of company assets
that could have a material effect on our financial statements would be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting is not intended to provide absolute assurance that a
misstatement of our financial statements would be prevented or detected.  Management conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our
internal control over financial reporting based on the framework in Internal Control  Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Based on this evaluation, management concluded
that the companys internal control over financial reporting was effective as of June30, 2012. There were no changes in our internal control over financial reporting during the quarter ended June30, 2012 that have materially
affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting. Deloitte& Touche LLP has audited our internal control over financial reporting as of June30, 2012; their report is included in
Item9A. 
 89 


Table of Contents


PART II  Item 9A  
REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
 To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of Microsoft Corporation: 
We have audited the internal control over financial reporting of Microsoft Corporation and subsidiaries (the Company) as of
June30, 2012, based on criteria established in Internal Control  Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.The Companys management is responsible for
maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying Report of Management on Internal Control Over Financial
Reporting.Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Companys internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.  We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States).Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable
assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects.Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material
weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances.We believe that our audit
provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.  A companys internal control over financial reporting is a process designed by, or
under the supervision of, the companys principal executive and principal financial officers, or persons performing similar functions, and effected by the companys board of directors, management, and other personnel to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.A companys internal control over financial reporting
includes those policies and procedures that (1)pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2)provide reasonable
assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with
authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3)provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the companys assets that could have a material
effect on the financial statements.  Because of the inherent limitations of internal control over financial reporting, including the
possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis.Also, projections of any evaluation of the effectiveness of the internal
control over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. 
In our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of June30, 2012,
based on the criteria established in Internal Control  Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.  We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated financial statements as of and for the year ended June30, 2012, of the
Company and our report dated July26, 2012, expressed an unqualified opinion on those financial statements. 
/S/DELOITTE& TOUCHE LLP 
Seattle, Washington  July26,
2012 
 90 


Table of Contents


PART II, III  Item 9B, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14  
ITEM9B. OTHER INFORMATION 
Not applicable.  PART III
 ITEM10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 
A list of our executive officers and biographical information appears in Part I, Item1 of this Form 10-K. Information about our directors may
be found under the caption Our Director Nominees in our Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held November28, 2012 (the Proxy Statement). Information about our Audit Committee may be found under
the caption Board Committees in the Proxy Statement. That information is incorporated herein by reference.  The information
in the Proxy Statement set forth under the caption Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance is incorporated herein by reference.  We have adopted the Microsoft Finance Code of Professional Conduct (the finance code of ethics), a code of ethics that applies to our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Accounting
Officer and Corporate Controller, and other finance organization employees. The finance code of ethics is publicly available on our website at www.microsoft.com/investor/MSFinanceCode. If we make any substantive amendments to the finance code of
ethics or grant any waiver, including any implicit waiver, from a provision of the code to our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, or Chief Accounting Officer and Corporate Controller, we will disclose the nature of the amendment or
waiver on that website or in a report on Form8-K.  ITEM11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
 The information in the Proxy Statement set forth under the captions Director Compensation, Named Executive
Officer Compensation, Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation, and Compensation Committee Report is incorporated herein by reference. 
ITEM12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS
 The information in the Proxy Statement set forth under the captions Information Regarding Beneficial Ownership of Principal
Shareholders, Directors, and Management and Equity Compensation Plan Information is incorporated herein by reference. 
ITEM13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND 
DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE  The
information set forth in the Proxy Statement under the captions Director Independence and Certain Relationships and Related Transactions is incorporated herein by reference. 
ITEM14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES 
Information concerning principal accountant fees and services appears in the Proxy Statement under the headings Fees Billed by
Deloitte& Touche and Policy on Audit Committee Pre-Approval of Audit and Permissible Non-Audit Services of Independent Auditor and is incorporated herein by reference. 
 91 


Table of Contents
PART IV  Item 15  
PART IV  ITEM15. EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES  
 The financial statements are set forth under Item8 of this Form 10-K, as indexed below. Financial statement schedules have been omitted since they either are not required, not applicable, or the information
is otherwise included.  
 
 

 92 


Table of Contents
PART IV  Item 15  

 93 


Table of Contents
PART IV  Item 15  
 


 94 


Table of Contents


SIGNATURES 
Pursuant to the requirements of Section13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be
signed on its behalf by the undersigned; thereunto duly authorized, in the City of Redmond, State of Washington, on July26, 2012.  
 Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the
following persons on behalf of Registrant and in the capacities indicated on July26, 2012.  

 95 



EX-10.4
2
d347676dex104.htm
EMPLOYEE STOCK PURCHASE PLAN

Employee Stock Purchase Plan
Exhibit 10.4  Employee Stock Purchase Plan  This Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the Plan) is
effective January1, 2013, subject to prior approval by the Companys shareholders. The Plan is an amendment, restatement and continuation of the Companys 2003 Employee Stock Purchase Plan. 
1. Purpose and Structure of the Plan and its Sub-Plans.  1.1 The purpose of this Plan is to provide eligible employees of the Company and Participating Companies who wish to become shareholders in the Company a convenient method of doing so. It is believed that employee
participation in the ownership of the business will be to the mutual benefit of both the employees and the Company. This Plan document is an omnibus document which includes a sub-plan (Statutory Plan) designed to permit offerings of
grants to employees of certain Subsidiaries that are Participating Companies where such offerings are intended to satisfy the requirements of Section423 of the Code (although the Company makes no undertaking nor representation to obtain or
maintain qualification under Section423 for any Subsidiary, individual, offering or grant) and also separate sub-plans (Non-Statutory Plans) which permit offerings of grants to employees of certain Participating Companies which are
not intended to satisfy the requirements of Section423 of the Code. Section6 of the Plan sets forth the maximum number of shares to be offered under the Plan (and its sub-plans), subject to adjustments as permitted under Sections 19 and
20.  1.2 The Statutory Plan shall be a separate and independent plan from the Non-Statutory Plans, provided, however, that the total
number of shares authorized to be issued under the Plan applies in the aggregate to both the Statutory Plan and the Non-Statutory Plans. Offerings under the Non-Statutory Plans may be made to achieve desired tax or other objectives in particular
locations outside the United States of America or to comply with local laws applicable to offerings in such foreign jurisdictions. Offerings under the Non-Statutory Plans may also be made to employees of entities that are not Subsidiaries.
 1.3 All employees who participate in the Statutory Plan shall have the same rights and privileges under such sub-plan except for
differences that may be mandated by local law and are consistent with the requirements of Code Section423(b)(5). The terms of the Statutory Plan shall be those set forth in this Plan document to the extent such terms are consistent with the
requirements for qualification under Code Section423. The Administrator may adopt Non-Statutory Plans applicable to particular Participating Companies or locations that are not participating in the Statutory Plan. The terms of each
Non-Statutory Plan may take precedence over other provisions in this document, with the exception of Sections 6, 19 and 20 with respect to the total number of shares available to be offered under the Plan for all sub-plans. Unless otherwise
superseded by the terms of such Non-Statutory Plan, the provisions of this Plan document shall govern the operation of such Non-Statutory Plan. Except to the extent expressly set forth herein or where the context suggests otherwise, any reference
herein to Plan shall be construed to include a reference to the Statutory Plan and the Non-Statutory Plans.  2. Definitions.
 2.1 Account means the funds accumulated with respect to an individual employee as a result of deductions from such
employees paycheck (or otherwise as permitted in certain circumstances under the terms of the Plan) for the purpose of purchasing stock under this Plan. The funds allocated to an employees Account shall remain the property of the
employee at all times but may be commingled with the general funds of the Company, except to the extent such commingling may be prohibited by the laws of any applicable jurisdiction. 
2.2 Administrator means the Committee or the persons acting within the scope of their authority to administer the Plan pursuant to a
delegation of authority from the Committee pursuant to Section22. 
 1 


2.3 Affiliate means an entity, other than a Subsidiary, in which the Company has an equity
or other ownership interest.  2.4 Board means the Board of Directors of the Company. 
2.5 Code means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time. 
2.6 Committee means the Compensation Committee of the Board. The Committee may delegate its responsibilities as provided in Section in
Section22.  2.7 Company means Microsoft Corporation.  2.8 Compensation means total cash performance-based pay received by the participant from a Participating Company. By way of illustration, but not limitation, Compensation includes salary, wages,
performance bonuses, commissions, incentive compensation and overtime but excludes relocation, equalization, patent and sign-on bonuses, expense reimbursements, meal allowances, commuting or automobile allowances, any payments (such as guaranteed
bonuses in certain foreign jurisdictions) with respect to which salary reductions are not permitted by the laws of the applicable jurisdiction, and income realized as a result of participation in any stock plan, including without limitation any
stock option, stock award, stock purchase, or similar plan, of the Company or any Subsidiary or Affiliate.  2.9 Enrollment
Agreement means an agreement between the Company and an employee, in such form as may be established by the Company from time to time, pursuant to which the employee elects to participate in this Plan, or elects changes with respect to such
participation as permitted under the Plan.  2.10 ESPP Broker means a stock brokerage or other entity designated by the
Company to establish accounts for stock purchased under the Plan by participants.  2.11 Fair Market Value means the closing
bid price as reported on the National Association of Securities Dealers Automated Quotation National Market System or the other primary trading market for the Companys common stock. 
2.12 Offering Date as used in this Plan shall be the commencement date of an offering. A different date may be set by the Committee.
 2.13 Participating Company means the Company and any Subsidiary or Affiliate that has been designated by the Administrator
to participate in the Plan. For purposes of participation in the Statutory Plan, only the Company and its Subsidiaries may be considered Participating Companies, and the Administrator shall designate from time to time which Subsidiaries will be
Participating Companies in the Statutory Plan. The Administrator shall designate from time to time which Subsidiaries and Affiliates will be Participating Companies in particular Non-Statutory Plans provided, however, that at any given time, a
Subsidiary that is a Participating Company in the Statutory Plan will not be a Participating Company in a Non-Statutory Plan. The foregoing designations and changes in designation by the Administrator shall not require shareholder approval.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the term Participating Company shall not include any Subsidiary or Affiliate that offers its employees the opportunity to participate in an employee stock purchase plan covering the Subsidiarys or
Affiliates common stock.  2.14 Plan means this Microsoft Corporation Employee Stock Purchase Plan. 
2.15 Purchase Price is the price per share of common stock of the Company as established pursuant to Section5 of the Plan.
 2.16 Subsidiary means any corporation (other than the Company), domestic or foreign, that is in an unbroken chain of
corporations beginning with Company if, on an Offering Date, each of the corporations 
 2 



other than the last corporation in the unbroken chain owns stock possessing 50% or more of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock in one of the other corporations in the chain,
as described in Code Section424(f).  3. Employees Eligible to Participate. Any employee of a Participating Company who is
in the employ of any Participating Company on the last business day preceding the Offering Date for an offering is eligible to participate in that offering, except employees whose customary employment is for not more than five months in any calendar
year.  4. Offerings. Subject to the right of the Company in its sole discretion to sooner terminate the Plan or to change the
commencement date or term of any offering, commencing January1, 2013, the Plan will operate with separate consecutive three-month offerings with the following Offering Dates: January1,April1,July1, and
October1. Unless a termination of or change to the Plan has previously been made by the Company, the final offering under this Plan shall commence on October1, 2022 and terminate on December31, 2022. In order to become eligible to
purchase shares, an employee must complete and submit an Enrollment Agreement and any other necessary documents before the Offering Date of the particular offering in which he or she wishes to participate. Participation in one offering under the
Plan shall neither limit, nor require, participation in any other offering.  5. Price. The Purchase Price per share shall be
ninety percent (90%)of the Fair Market Value of the stock on the last regular business day of the offering.  6. Number of
Shares to be Offered. The maximum number of shares that will be offered under the Plan is two hundred million (200,000,000)shares, subject to adjustment as permitted under Section20. These two hundred million
(200,000,000)shares include shares that were available but not used under the prior version of this Plan (i.e., the Microsoft Corporation 2003 Employee Stock Purchase Plan) as well as additional shares that were made available for issuance for
the first time as part of this amended and restated Plan. The shares to be sold to participants under the Plan will be common stock of the Company. If the total number of shares for which options are to be granted on any date in accordance with
Section12 exceeds the number of shares then available under the Plan or a given sub-plan (after deduction of all shares for which options have been exercised under the Plan or are then outstanding), the Company shall make a pro rata allocation
of the shares remaining available in as nearly a uniform manner as it determines is practicable and equitable. In such event, the payroll deductions to be made pursuant to the authorizations therefor shall be reduced accordingly and the Company
shall give written notice of the reduction to each employee affected.  7. Participation. 
7.1 An eligible employee may become a participant by completing an Enrollment Agreement provided by the Company and submitting it to the Company,
or with such other entity designated by the Company for this purpose, prior to the commencement of the offering to which it relates. The Enrollment Agreement may be completed at any time after the employee becomes eligible to participate in the
Plan, and will be effective as of the Offering Date next following the receipt of a properly completed Enrollment Agreement by the Company (or the Companys designee for this purpose). 
7.2 Payroll deductions for a participant shall commence on the Offering Date as described above and shall continue through subsequent offerings
pursuant to Section10 until the participants termination of employment, subject to modification by the employee as provided in Section8.1, and unless participation is earlier withdrawn or suspended by the employee as provided in
Section9.  7.3 Payroll deduction shall be the sole means of accumulating funds in a participants Account, except in foreign
countries where payroll deductions are not allowed, in which case the Company may authorize alternative payment methods. 
 3 


7.4 The Company may require current participants to complete a new Enrollment Agreement at any time it
deems necessary or desirable to facilitate Plan administration or for any other reason.  8. Payroll Deductions. 
8.1 At the time an employee files a payroll deduction authorization, the employee shall elect to have deductions made from the employees
Compensation on each payday during the time he or she is a participant in an offering at any non-fractional percentage rate from 1% to 15%. A participant may change his or her payroll deduction percentage election, including changing the payroll
deduction percentage to zero, effective as of any Offering Date by filing a revised authorization, provided the revised authorization is filed prior to such Offering Date.  8.2 All payroll deductions made for a participant shall be credited to his or her Account under the Plan. A participant may not make any separate cash payment into his or her Account nor may payment for shares be
made other than by payroll deduction, except as provided under Section7.3.  8.3 A participant may withdraw from or suspend his or
her participation in the Plan as provided in Section9, but no other change can be made during an offering with respect to that offering. A participant may also make a prospective election, by changing his or her payroll deduction percentage to
zero as set forth in Section8.1, to cease participation in the Plan effective as of the next Offering Date. Other changes permitted under the Plan may only be made with respect to an offering that has not yet commenced. 
9. Withdrawal and Suspension.  9.1 An
employee may withdraw from an offering, in whole but not in part, at any time prior to the first day of the last calendar month of such offering by submitting a withdrawal notice to the Company, in which event the Company will refund the entire
balance of his or her Account as soon as practicable thereafter.  9.2 An employee may, at any time prior to the first day of the last
calendar month of an offering, reduce to zero the percentage by which he or she has elected to have his or her Compensation reduced, thereby suspending participation in the Plan. The reduction will be effective as soon as administratively feasible
after receipt of the participants election. Shares shall be purchased in accordance with Section13 based on the amounts accumulated in the participants Account prior to the suspension of payroll deductions. 
9.3 If an employee withdraws or suspends his or her participation pursuant to Sections 9.1 or 9.2, he or she shall not participate in a subsequent
offering unless and until he or she re-enters the Plan. To re-enter the Plan, an employee who has previously withdrawn or suspended participation by reducing payroll deductions to zero must file a new Enrollment Agreement in accordance with
Section7.1. The employees re-entry into the Plan will not become effective before the beginning of the next offering following his or her withdrawal or suspension.  10. Automatic Re-Enrollment. At the termination of each offering each participating employee who continues to be eligible to participate pursuant to Section3 shall be automatically re-enrolled in the
next offering, unless the employee has advised the Company otherwise. Upon termination of the Plan, any balance in each employees Account shall be refunded to him.  11. Interest. No interest will be paid or allowed on any money in the Accounts of participating employees, except to the extent payment of interest is required by the laws of any applicable jurisdiction.
 12. Granting of Option. On each Offering Date, this Plan shall be deemed to have granted to the participant an option for as
many shares (which may include a fractional share) as he or she will be able to purchase with the amounts credited to his or her Account during his or her participation in that offering. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no participant may purchase
more than 2,000 shares of stock during any single offering. This number may be adjusted as permitted pursuant to Section20 of the Plan. 
 4 


13. Exercise of Option. Each employee who continues to be a participant in an offering on the
last business day of that offering shall be deemed to have exercised his or her option on that date and shall be deemed to have purchased from the Company the number of shares (which may include a fractional share) of common stock reserved for the
purpose of the Plan as the balance of his or her Account on such date will pay for at the Purchase Price.  14. Tax Obligations.
To the extent any (i)grant of an option to purchase shares, (ii)purchase of shares, or (iii)disposition of shares purchased under the Plan gives rise to any tax withholding obligation (including, without limitation, income and
payroll withholding taxes imposed by any jurisdiction) the Administrator may implement appropriate procedures to ensure that such tax withholding obligations are met. Those procedures may include, without limitation, increased withholding from an
employees current compensation, cash payments to the Company or another Participating Company by an employee, or a sale of a portion of the stock purchased under the Plan, which sale may be required and initiated by the Company. 
15. Employees Rights as a Shareholder. No participating employee shall have any right as a shareholder with respect to any shares
until the shares have been purchased in accordance with Section13 above and the stock has been issued by the Company.  16. Evidence of Stock
Ownership.  16.1 Following the end of each offering, the number of shares of common stock purchased by each participant shall be
deposited into an account established in the participants name at the ESPP Broker.  16.2 A participant shall be free to undertake
a disposition (as that term is defined in Section424(c) of the Code) of the shares in his or her ESPP Broker account at any time, whether by sale, exchange, gift, or other transfer of legal title, but in the absence of such a disposition of
the shares, the shares must remain in the participants ESPP Broker account until the holding period set forth in Section423(a) of the Code has been satisfied. With respect to shares for which the Section423(a) holding period has
been satisfied, the participant may move those shares to another brokerage account of participants choosing.  16.3 Notwithstanding
the above, a participant who is not subject to income taxation under the Code may move his or her shares to another brokerage account of his or her choosing at any time, without regard to the satisfaction of the Section423(a) holding period.
 17. Rights Not Transferable. No employee shall be permitted to sell, assign, transfer, pledge, or otherwise dispose of or
encumber either the payroll deductions credited to his or her Account or an option or any rights with regard to the exercise of an option or rights to receive shares under the Plan other than by will or the laws of descent and distribution, and such
right and interest shall not be liable for, or subject to, the debts, contracts, or liabilities of the employee. If any such action is taken by the employee, or any claim is asserted by any other party in respect of such right and interest whether
by garnishment, levy, attachment or otherwise, the action or claim will be treated as an election to withdraw funds in accordance with Section9. During the employees lifetime, only the employee can make decisions regarding the
participation in or withdrawal from an offering under the Plan.  18. Termination of Employment. Upon termination of employment
for any reason whatsoever, including but not limited to death or retirement, the balance in the Account of a participating employee shall be paid to the employee or his or her estate. Whether and when employment is deemed terminated for purposes of
this Plan shall be determined by the Administrator in its sole discretion and may be determined without regard to statutory notice periods or other periods following termination of active employment. 
 5 


19. Amendment or Discontinuance of the Plan. The Committee and the Board shall have the right
at any time and without notice to amend, modify or terminate the Plan; provided, that no employees existing rights under any offering already made under Section4 hereof may be adversely affected thereby, and provided further that no such
amendment of the Plan shall, except as provided in Section20, increase the total number of shares to be offered under the Plan above the limit specified in Section6 unless shareholder approval is obtained therefor. 
20. Changes in Capitalization. In the event of reorganization, recapitalization, stock split, stock dividend, combination of shares, merger,
consolidation, offerings of rights, or any other change in the structure of the common shares of the Company, the Committee may make such adjustment, if any, as it may deem appropriate in the number, kind, and the price of shares available for
purchase under the Plan, and in the number of shares which an employee is entitled to purchase including, without limitation, closing an offering early and permitting purchase on the last business day of the reduced offering period, or terminating
an offering and refunding participants Account balances.  21. Share Ownership. Notwithstanding anything in the Plan to the
contrary, no employee shall be permitted to subscribe for any shares under the Plan if the employee, immediately after such subscription, owns shares (including all shares that may be purchased under outstanding subscriptions under the Plan)
possessing 5% or more of the total combined voting power or value of all classes of shares of the Company or of its parent or subsidiary corporations. For the foregoing purposes the rules of Section424(d) of the Code shall apply in determining
share ownership, and shares the employee may purchase under outstanding options shall be treated as owned by the employee. In addition, no employee shall be allowed to subscribe for any shares under the Plan that permit his or her rights to purchase
shares under all employee stock purchase plans of the Company and its parent or subsidiary corporations to accrue at a rate that exceeds $25,000 of Fair Market Value of such shares (determined at the time such right to subscribe is
granted) for each calendar year in which the right to subscribe is outstanding at any time. Notwithstanding the above, lower limitations may be imposed with respect to participants in a Non-Statutory Plan or participants in the Statutory Plan who
are subject to laws of another jurisdiction where lower limitations are required.  22. Administration and Board Authority. 
22.1 The Plan shall be administered by the Board. The Board has delegated its full authority under the Plan to the Committee, and the Committee may
further delegate any or all of its authority under this Plan to such senior officer(s) of the Company as it may designate. Notwithstanding any such delegation of authority, the Board may itself take any action under the Plan in its discretion at any
time, and any reference in this Plan document to the rights and obligations of the Committee shall be construed to apply equally to the Board. Any references to the Board mean only the Board. The authority that may be delegated by the Committee
includes, without limitation, the authority to (i)establish Non-Statutory Plans and determine the terms of such sub-plans, (ii)designate from time to time which Subsidiaries will participate in the Statutory Plan, which Subsidiaries and
Affiliates will be Participating Companies, and which Participating Companies will participate in a particular Non-Statutory Plan, (iii)determine procedures for eligible employees to enroll in or withdraw from a sub-plan, setting or changing
payroll deduction percentages, and obtaining necessary tax withholdings, (iv)allocate the available shares under the Plan to the sub-plans for particular offerings, and (v)adopt amendments to the Plan or any sub-plan including, without
limitation, amendments to increase the shares available for issuance under the Plan pursuant to Section20 (but not including increases in the available shares above the maximum permitted by Sections 6 and 20 which shall require Board and
shareholder approval).  22.2 The Administrator shall be vested with full authority and discretion to construe the terms of the Plan and
make factual determinations under the Plan, and to make, administer, and interpret such rules and regulations as it deems necessary to administer the Plan, and any determination, decision, or action of the Administrator in connection with the
construction, interpretation, administration, or application of the Plan shall be final, conclusive, and binding upon all participants and any and all persons claiming under or through any participant. The Administrator may retain outside entities
and professionals to assist in the administration of the Plan including, without limitation, a vendor or vendors to perform enrollment and 
 6 



brokerage services. The authority of the Administrator will specifically include, without limitation, the power to make any changes to the Plan with respect to the participation of employees of
any Subsidiary or Affiliate that is organized under the laws of a country other than the United States of America when the Administrator deems such changes to be necessary or appropriate to achieve a desired tax treatment in such foreign
jurisdiction or to comply with the laws applicable to such non-U.S. Subsidiaries or Affiliates. Those changes may include, without limitation, the exclusion of particular Subsidiaries or Affiliates from participation in the plan; modifications to
eligibility criteria, maximum number or value of shares that may be purchased in a given period, or other requirements set forth herein; and procedural or administrative modifications. Any modification relating to offerings to a particular
Participating Company will apply only to that Participating Company, and will apply equally to all similarly situated employees of that Participating Company. The rights and privileges of all employees granted options under the Statutory Plan shall
be the same. To the extent any changes approved by the Administrator would jeopardize the tax-qualified status of the Statutory Plan, the change shall cause the Participating Companies affected thereby to be considered Participating Companies under
a Non-Statutory Plan or Non-Statutory Plans instead of the Statutory Plan.  23. Notices. All notices or other communications by a
participant to the Company or other entity designated for a particular purpose under or in connection with the Plan shall be deemed to have been duly given when received by the Company or other designated entity, or when received in the form
specified by the Company at the location, or by the person, designated by the Company for the receipt thereof.  24. Termination of
the Plan. This Plan will terminate at the earliest of the following:  (a) December31, 2022; 
(b) The date of the filing of a Statement of Intent to Dissolve by the Company or the effective date of a merger or consolidation
wherein the Company is not to be the surviving corporation, which merger or consolidation is not between or among corporations related to the Company. Prior to the occurrence of either of such events, on such date as the Company may determine, the
Company may permit a participating employee to exercise the option to purchase shares for as many shares as the balance of his or her Account will allow at the price set forth in accordance with Section5. If the employee elects to purchase
shares, any remaining balance of the employees Account will be refunded to the employee after that purchase;  (c)
The date the Board acts to terminate the Plan in accordance with Section19; and  (d) The date when all shares
reserved under the Plan have been purchased.  25. Limitations on Sale of Stock Purchased Under the Plan. The Plan is intended to
provide common stock for investment and not for resale. The Company does not, however, intend to restrict or influence any employee in the conduct of the employees own affairs. An employee, therefore, may sell stock purchased under the Plan at
any time the employee chooses, subject to compliance with any applicable Federal, state or foreign securities laws. THE EMPLOYEE ASSUMES THE RISK OF ANY MARKET FLUCTUATIONS IN THE PRICE OF THE COMPANYS STOCK. 
26. Governmental Regulation/Compliance with Applicable Law/Separate Offering. The Companys obligation to sell and deliver shares of
the Companys common stock under this Plan is subject to the approval of any governmental authority required in connection with the authorization, issuance, or sale of such shares. In addition, the terms of an offering under this Plan, or the
rights of an employee under an offering, may be modified to the extent required by applicable law. For purposes of this Plan, the Administrator also may designate separate offerings under the Plan (the terms of which need not be identical) in which
eligible employees of one or more Participating Companies will participate, even if the dates of the offerings are identical. 
 7 


27. No Employment/Service Rights. Nothing in the Plan shall confer upon any employee the right
to continue in employment for any period of specific duration, nor interfere with or otherwise restrict in any way the rights of the Company (or any Subsidiary or Affiliate employing such person), or of any employee, which rights are hereby
expressly reserved by each, to terminate such persons employment at any time for any reason, with or without cause.  28. Dates
and Times. All references in the Plan to a date or time are intended to refer to dates and times determined pursuant to U.S. Pacific Time. Business days for purposes of the Plan are U.S. business days. 
29. Masculine and Feminine, Singular and Plural. Whenever used in the Plan, a pronoun shall include the opposite gender and the singular
shall include the plural, and the plural shall include the singular, whenever the context shall plainly so require.  30. Governing
Law. The Plan shall be governed by the laws of the State of Washington, U.S.A., without regard to Washington laws that might cause other law to govern under applicable principles of conflicts of law. 
 8 



EX-12
3
d347676dex12.htm
COMPUTATION OF RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES

Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges


Exhibit 12  COMPUTATION OF RATIOS OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES  
 





EX-21
4
d347676dex21.htm
SUBSIDIARIES OF REGISTRANT

Subsidiaries of Registrant


Exhibit 21  SUBSIDIARIES OF REGISTRANT  The following is a list of subsidiaries of the company as of
June30, 2012, omitting subsidiaries which, considered in the aggregate, would not constitute a significant subsidiary.  




EX-23.1
5
d347676dex231.htm
CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm


Exhibit 23.1  CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM  We consent to the incorporation by
reference in Registration Statement Nos. 333-120511, 333-109185, 333-06298, 333-16665, 333-118764, 333-91755, 333-52852, 333-102240, 333-132100, 333-161516, and 333-75243 on Form S-8 and Registration Statement Nos. 333-43449, 333-110107, 333-108843,
and 333-155495 on Form S-3 of our reports dated July26, 2012, relating to the consolidated financial statements of Microsoft Corporation and subsidiaries (the Company), and the effectiveness of the Companys internal control
over financial reporting, appearing in this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Microsoft Corporation for the year ended June30, 2012. 
/S/DELOITTE& TOUCHE LLP 
Seattle, Washington  July26,
2012 



EX-31.1
6
d347676dex311.htm
CERTIFICATIONS OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER PURSUANT TO SECTION 302

Certifications of Chief Executive Officer Pursuant to Section 302


Exhibit 31.1  CERTIFICATIONS  I, Steven A. Ballmer, certify that: 
1. I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Microsoft Corporation; 
2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make
the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;  3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of
the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;  4. The registrants other certifying officer and I are
responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for
the registrant and have:  a) Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be
designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is
being prepared;  b) Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to
be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;
 c) Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrants disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions
about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and  d) Disclosed in this report any change in the registrants internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrants most recent fiscal quarter (the registrants fourth fiscal
quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrants internal control over financial reporting; and 
5. The registrants other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial
reporting, to the registrants auditors and the audit committee of registrants Board of Directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):  a) All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrants ability to
record, process, summarize and report financial information; and  b) Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or
other employees who have a significant role in the registrants internal control over financial reporting.  
 July26, 2012 



EX-31.2
7
d347676dex312.htm
CERTIFICATIONS OF CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER PURSUANT TO SECTION 302

Certifications of Chief Financial Officer Pursuant to Section 302


Exhibit 31.2  CERTIFICATIONS  I, Peter S. Klein, certify that: 
1. I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Microsoft Corporation; 
2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make
the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;  3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of
the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;  4. The registrants other certifying officer and I are
responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for
the registrant and have:  a) Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be
designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is
being prepared;  b) Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to
be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;
 c) Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrants disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions
about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and  d) Disclosed in this report any change in the registrants internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrants most recent fiscal quarter (the registrants fourth fiscal
quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrants internal control over financial reporting; and 
5. The registrants other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial
reporting, to the registrants auditors and the audit committee of registrants Board of Directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):  a) All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrants ability to
record, process, summarize and report financial information; and  b) Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or
other employees who have a significant role in the registrants internal control over financial reporting.  
 July26, 2012 



EX-32.1
8
d347676dex321.htm
CERTIFICATIONS OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER PURSUANT TO SECTION 906

Certifications of Chief Executive Officer Pursuant to Section 906


Exhibit 32.1  CERTIFICATIONS PURSUANT TO  SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 
(18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350)  In
connection with the Annual Report of Microsoft Corporation, a Washington corporation (the Company), on Form10-K for the year ended June30, 2012, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the Report),
Steven A. Ballmer, Chief Executive Officer of the Company, does hereby certify, pursuant to  906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (18 U.S.C.  1350), that to his knowledge: 
(1) The Report fully complies with the requirements of section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and 
(2) The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the
Company.  
 July26, 2012  [A signed original of this written statement required by Section906 has been provided to Microsoft Corporation and will be retained by Microsoft Corporation and furnished to the Securities and Exchange
Commission or its staff upon request.] 



EX-32.2
9
d347676dex322.htm
CERTIFICATIONS OF CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER PURSUANT TO SECTION 906

Certifications of Chief Financial Officer Pursuant to Section 906


Exhibit 32.2  CERTIFICATIONS PURSUANT TO  SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 
(18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350)  In
connection with the Annual Report of Microsoft Corporation, a Washington corporation (the Company), on Form10-K for the year ended June30, 2012, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the Report),
Peter S. Klein, Chief Financial Officer of the Company, does hereby certify, pursuant to  906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (18 U.S.C.  1350), that to his knowledge: 
(1) The Report fully complies with the requirements of section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and 
(2) The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the
Company.  
 July26, 2012  [A signed original of this written statement required by Section906 has been provided to Microsoft Corporation and will be retained by Microsoft Corporation and furnished to the Securities and Exchange
Commission or its staff upon request.] 



EX-101.INS
10
msft-20120630.xml
XBRL INSTANCE DOCUMENT










9
2
1
7100000000
8600000000
1648000000
222000000
2800000000
4200000000
54000000
10000000
114000000
1249000000
275000000
5
195333665376
8908000000
5403000000
6076000000
62382000000
-22824000000
451000000
12394000000
46175000000
-176000000
8668000000
6542000000
5505000000
1055000000
18716000000
181000000
767000000
464000000
747000000
21182000000
267000000
3
1118000000
4024000000
802000000
6373000000
77000000
2466000000
0
1250000000
33.40
1000
62856000000
-16681000000
375000000
0.15
167000000
5000000
9000000
40000000
12581000000
3118000000
6521000000
90000000
17991000000
3446000000
61058000000
122000000
3492000000
263000000
3320000000
0
1011000000
1434000000
1321000000
57083000000
744000000
12000000000
60804000000
170000000

2435000000
463000000
205000000
24000000000
276000000
580000000
63637000000
3575000000
12100000000
52772000000
79000000
2467000000
219000000
8376000000
5900000000
1079000000
1181000000
56000000
3363000000
424000000
51621000000
4197000000
6935000000
43162000000
15722000000
69000000
8072000000
7381000000
10865000000
108704000000
23.21
1456000000
14987000000
1372000000
3052000000
108704000000
334000000
2345000000
11900000000
0
1208000000
245000000
9610000000
219000000
3863000000
-1456000000
904000000
1863000000
18498000000
232000000
1991000000
83000000
415000000
28774000000
17120000000
333000000
49000000
93000000
1821000000
63415000000
416000000
1398000000
1000000
3119000000
533000000
-163000000
74918000000
1084000000
3446000000
9829000000
8162000000
0
11921000000
1266000000
785000000
-6332000000
6601000000
21487000000
265000000
6000000
0
0
0
6000000
0
214000000
17000000
0
179000000
14000000
4000000
54000000
123000000
0
0
0
123000000
0
73000000
0
0
0
73000000
0
128000000
0
0
0
128000000
0
135000000
19000000
9000000
12000000
91000000
4000000
1648000000
650000000
334000000
75000000
836000000
1139000000
6315000000
4167000000
8187000000
813000000
6373000000
89000000
1782000000
--03-15
--04-01
--03-15
--03-25
--03-15
--03-27
--05-15
--06-01
--05-15
--06-01
--03-15
--04-01
--05-15
--06-01
--02-01
--02-08
--02-01
--02-08
--02-01
--02-08
--09-15
--10-01
--09-15
--09-25
--09-15
--09-27
--11-15
--12-01
--11-15
--12-01
--09-15
--10-01
--09-15
--12-01
--08-01
--08-08
--08-01
--08-08
--08-01
--08-08
63000000
3000000
4000000
77000000
14000000
1000000
750000000
10000000
11000000
775000000
25000000
1000000
484000000
7000000
7000000
484000000
0
0
1377000000
146000000
193000000
1583000000
206000000
47000000
79000000
2000000
2000000
79000000
0
0
365000000
2000000
2000000
365000000
0
0
2989000000
0
129000000
0
0
0
129000000
0
287000000
17000000
0
179000000
87000000
4000000
639000000
639000000
225000000
0
0
414000000
0
2307000000
2424000000
2424000000
0
121000000
0
4000000
1648000000
1648000000
0
0
0
1648000000
0
598000000
598000000
226000000
0
0
372000000
0
1752000000
1752000000
0
0
0
1752000000
0
10575000000
10824000000
7449000000
0
260000000
3375000000
11000000
33607000000
33762000000
31713000000
0
162000000
2049000000
7000000
7925000000
10215000000
0
10215000000
2483000000
0
193000000
441000000
454000000
454000000
0
15000000
0
2000000
658000000
667000000
667000000
0
11000000
0
2000000
654000000
654000000
4000000
650000000
0
0
0
10750000000
0.00000
1250000000
0.01849
0.04500
1000000000
0.04567
0.01625
1750000000
0.01795
0.00875
1000000000
0.01000
0.02950
2000000000
0.03049
0.04200
1000000000
0.04379
0.03000
1000000000
0.03137
0.05200
750000000
0.05240
0.05300
1000000000
0.05361
0.04000
500000000
0.04082
0.02500
750000000
0.02642
281000000
502000000
10600000000
7100000000
572000000
697000000
860000000
532000000
1900000000
868000000
4300000000
2300000000
1100000000
63415000000
-6332000000
333000000
23.76
32000000
0.15
23.59
255000000
19000000
17000000
9000000
0
12000000
179000000
219000000
216000000
4000000
4000000
83000000
0
0
0
0
58000000
0
5000000
20000000
0
0
0
35475000000
0
0
0
1752000000
0
23591000000
9821000000
8000000
0
303000000
109000000
25704000000
639000000
2428000000
598000000
0
10600000000
10175000000
55000000
388000000
454000000
367000000
257000000
61262000000
639000000
2428000000
598000000
1752000000
10658000000
33766000000
9881000000
416000000
454000000
670000000
366000000
-204000000
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
-204000000
0
0
-203000000
58000000
5000000
20000000
14625000000
2495000000
179000000
0
102000000
1068000000
966000000
2000000
102000000
326000000
224000000
1000000
15000000
113000000
98000000
119000000
525000000
2356000000
1831000000
639000000
2428000000
598000000
1752000000
10658000000
33766000000
9881000000
212000000
454000000
670000000
163000000
13452000000
3529000000
1250000000
6768000000
532000000
19231000000
2728000000
69623000000
3026000000
3151000000
3173000000
155000000
3092000000
453000000
142000000
1520000000
965000000
0
367000000
18000000
66363000000
3170000000
12000000000
70584000000
137000000
369000000

2586000000
2433000000
178000000
0
571000000
-101000000
23125000000
24000000000
234000000
220000000
789000000
72816000000
3875000000
13200000000
63040000000
507000000
56000000
2035000000
20.77
484000000
264000000
8381000000
6200000000
31124000000
882000000
785000000
96000000
3964000000
3371000000
152000000
1236000000
54908000000
4175000000
7202000000
56102000000
597000000
19400000000
18653000000
79000000
8208000000
7634000000
9776000000
121271000000
18.69
60800000000
1893000000
15780000000
1137000000
2716000000
2000000000
121271000000
60196000000
313000000
2550000000
11900000000
1231000000
814000000
435000000
6938000000
484000000
6107000000
23097000000
3000000000
-1893000000
59732000000
830000000
1422000000
14081000000
210000000
2087000000
14000000
304000000
432000000
354000000
32688000000
20059000000
389000000
115000000
22000000
1431000000
65797000000
2500000000
483000000
1406000000
3000000
2937000000
528000000
92000000
85084000000
831000000
31029000000
2576000000
3181000000
5250000000
10962000000
8269000000
14000000
10713000000
1072000000
939000000
566000000
7298000000
24891000000
670000000
1000000000
23000000
2013-09-30
6000000
0
0
0
6000000
0
215000000
26000000
10000000
162000000
14000000
3000000
185000000
177000000
0
0
0
177000000
0
85000000
0
0
0
85000000
0
14000000
0
0
0
14000000
0
141000000
21000000
17000000
19000000
84000000
0
2019000000
1043000000
313000000
87000000
1155000000
1144000000
7445000000
6893000000
9015000000
5103000000
223000000
89000000
2444000000
--03-15
--04-01
--03-15
--03-25
--03-15
--03-27
--05-15
--06-01
--05-15
--06-01
--03-15
--04-01
--05-15
--06-01
--02-01
--02-08
--02-01
--02-08
--02-01
--02-08
--09-15
--10-01
--09-15
--09-25
--09-15
--09-27
--11-15
--12-01
--11-15
--12-01
--09-15
--10-01
--11-15
--12-01
--08-01
--08-08
--08-01
--08-08
--08-01
--08-08
53000000
0
2000000
101000000
48000000
2000000
640000000
11000000
15000000
710000000
70000000
4000000
44000000
2000000
2000000
44000000
0
0
2135000000
329000000
436000000
2440000000
305000000
107000000
657000000
27000000
29000000
669000000
12000000
2000000
353000000
2000000000
1900000000
500000000
2700000000
2
3
15
14
3835000000
1
6975000000
183000000
0
0
0
183000000
0
300000000
26000000
10000000
162000000
99000000
3000000
96000000
96000000
0
0
0
96000000
0
1816000000
1896000000
1896000000
0
82000000
0
2000000
2019000000
2019000000
0
0
0
2019000000
0
744000000
744000000
402000000
0
0
342000000
0
820000000
820000000
0
0
0
820000000
0
7799000000
8008000000
5483000000
0
224000000
2525000000
15000000
47178000000
47306000000
46745000000
0
130000000
561000000
2000000
6965000000
8733000000
0
8733000000
2204000000
0
436000000
358000000
416000000
416000000
0
58000000
0
0
1741000000
1730000000
1155000000
0
18000000
575000000
29000000
1048000000
1048000000
5000000
1043000000
0
0
0
10750000000
0.00000
1250000000
0.01849
19000000
0.04500
1000000000
0.04567
0.01625
1750000000
0.01795
0.00875
1000000000
0.01000
0.02950
2000000000
0.03049
0.04200
1000000000
0.04379
0.03000
1000000000
0.03137
0.05200
750000000
0.05240
0.05300
1000000000
0.05361
0.04000
500000000
0.04082
0.02500
750000000
0.02642
456000000
445000000
6700000000
7300000000
1300000000
1900000000
982000000
318000000
1500000000
1100000000
3600000000
3200000000
1400000000
0.01
29.24
120000000
65797000000
566000000
389000000
495000000
23.93
33000000
0.15
6000000
4400000000
23.90
248000000
21000000
26000000
17000000
10000000
19000000
162000000
98000000
282000000
0
3000000
14000000
0
0
0
0
9000000
0
5000000
0
0
0
0
50697000000
0
0
0
820000000
0
42291000000
7539000000
16000000
0
31000000
10000000
19053000000
96000000
1892000000
744000000
0
7839000000
5019000000
877000000
467000000
416000000
1703000000
145000000
69764000000
96000000
1892000000
744000000
820000000
7848000000
47310000000
8421000000
483000000
416000000
1734000000
155000000
-141000000
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
-141000000
0
0
-139000000
60
9000000
5000000
0
16717000000
3342000000
540000000
1
384000000
550000000
220000000
177000000
115000000
180000000
824000000
644000000
114000000
150000000
408000000
258000000
1249000000
1189000000
1325000000
136000000
1548000000
1651000000
3550000000
1899000000
96000000
1892000000
744000000
820000000
7848000000
47310000000
8421000000
342000000
416000000
1734000000
16000000
527000000
223000000
327000000
421000000
164000000
315000000
1977000000
8383396575
2012-07-18
1200000000
0.10
Yammer, Inc. (Yammer)
On July 18, 2012, we acquired Yammer, Inc. (Yammer), a leading provider of enterprise social networks, for $1.2 billion in cash. Yammer will continue to develop its standalone service and will add enterprise social networking services to Microsofts portfolio of complementary cloud-based services.
2012-07-18
Skype Global S. r.l. ("Skype")
P13Y
2011-10-13
P4Y
P5Y
P15Y
P5Y
6
4
4
37.16
1240000000
1180000000
58000000
29.94
2013-03-15
40000000000
7
P12M
2009-12-04
P10Y
P18M
1
1
1
38386000000
-173000000
365000000
30168000000
24098000000
662000000
126000000
844000000
2311000000
263000000
36173000000
14000000
69000000
-991000000
348000000
1839000000
7453000000
6473000000
10000000
188000000
0.021
0.021
2.10
1012000000
-464000000
1407000000
-140000000
166000000
0.03
0.52
27000000
11269000000
15438000000
14000000
4415000000
10836000000
114000000
0.250
26311000000
24073000000
-11314000000
843000000
-322000000
-103000000
29374000000
97000000
135000000
349000000
1977000000
-571000000
28813000000
4063000000
4578000000
1600000000
8927000000
20000000
62484000000
2238000000
-206000000
25013000000
13214000000
86000000
2.13
8714000000
-13291000000
-120000000
-223000000
12395000000
380000000
-0.121
2986000000
1502000000
45000000
9575000000
8813000000
5
44000000
357000000
0.350
0.000
1701000000
1800000000
4100000000
1891000000
223000000
605000000
15125000000
145000000
188000000
275000000
No sales to an individual customer or country other than the United States  accounted for more than 10%
-220000000
364000000
0.029
28000000
18760000000
915000000
-220000000
45000000
140000000
1000000
530000000
6253000000
-39000000
0
57000000
451000000
488000000
707000000
495000000
193000000
151000000
4167000000
265000000
208000000
245000000
2673000000
349000000
188000000
0.13
23.73
0.50
0.000
0.0045
0.00
1.50
0.20
0.80
0.25
0.25
5
600000000
-3712000000
-4136000000
314000000
110000000
569000000
5378000000
15121000000
12109000000
19525000000
525000000
6135000000
-2395000000
2345000000
12193000000
18789000000
-174000000
P4Y
P1Y
0.00
P2Y
P5Y
P1Y
P2Y
P5Y
P15Y
0.50
1.50
P10Y
P15Y
P5Y
P3Y
1891000000
3113000000
2311000000
-647000000
-32000000
18846000000
27000000
8156000000
-206000000
4547000000
18760000000
265000000
121000000
45000000
12000000
227000000
24.57
0.12
0.90
1000000
100000000
1358000000
23.43
22000000
-4000000
12000000
-60000000
3000000
106000000
57000000
-1000000
18225000000
5456000000
2528000000
3478000000
3036000000
12007000000
17754000000
42782000000
-50000000
2000000
222000000
35993000000
27161000000
758000000
77000000
58000000
2422000000
726000000
38008000000
-31000000
80000000
-186000000
439000000
1954000000
6897000000
4919000000
-40000000
215000000
0.011
-0.002
2.69
739000000
P3Y
-85000000
1259000000
1294000000
-77000000
119000000
0.03
0.64
-627000000
11555000000
19209000000
0
3108000000
11458000000
103000000
0.175
31935000000
26994000000
-14616000000
900000000
5000000
205000000
-140000000
31227000000
114000000
199000000
-632000000
2355000000
4105000000
28935000000
4222000000
5180000000
63000000
1900000000
8593000000
20000000
69943000000
1451000000
381000000
28071000000
13940000000
808000000
2.73
9043000000
-8376000000
-159000000
-295000000
15577000000
447000000
-0.156
814000000
-1026000000
17000000
17000000
8862000000
8490000000
5
561000000
209000000
0.350
-0.017
1602000000
2000000000
5300000000
2166000000
-62000000
734000000
54366000000
15880000000
197000000
-340000000
282000000
No sales to an individual customer or country other than the United States  accounted for more than 10%
2000000
405000000
0.024
21000000
23150000000
910000000
2000000
17000000
155000000
-26000000
525000000
47000000
4921000000
103000000
0
632000000
-1146000000
1349000000
537000000
-7000000
38000000
295000000
6960000000
1054000000
362000000
71000000
2766000000
-632000000
-340000000
22.98
0.50
0.000
0.0025
0.00
1.50
0.20
0.80
0.25
0.25
3
-4240000000
-4597000000
381000000
-24000000
575000000
6332000000
-8000000
16691000000
13000000
14453000000
-139000000
22314000000
4000000
1294000000
19000000
8896000000
30000000
-2649000000
0
2680000000
0
11971000000
-12000000
18787000000
0
-276000000
2013-06-15
2040-10-01
2015-09-25
2013-09-27
2014-06-01
2019-06-01
2020-10-01
2039-06-01
2041-02-08
2021-02-08
2016-02-08
P4Y
P1Y
0.13
0.00
P2Y
P5Y
P1Y
P2Y
P5Y
P15Y
0.16
0.50
1.50
P10Y
P15Y
P5Y
P3Y
2166000000
3738000000
2422000000
-292000000
-1000000
23958000000
-627000000
8215000000
381000000
5394000000
23150000000
1054000000
56000000
14000000
18000000
289000000
22.56
0.12
0.90
0
114000000
1521000000
22.17
24000000
19000000
35000000
-85000000
-7000000
-27000000
92000000
148000000
17825000000
8103000000
2913000000
3749000000
3372000000
13251000000
20730000000
-39000000
-85000000
63000000
6000000
0
0
0
0
-11000000
0
0
11000000
P4Y
P7Y
P3Y
MSFT
MICROSOFT CORP
Yes
false
Large Accelerated Filer
0.00000625
FY
No
2012
911144442
10-K
2012-06-30
0000789019
Yes
--06-30
<div>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Future minimum rental
commitments under noncancellable facilities operating leases in
place as of June&#xA0;30, 2012 are as follows:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 12px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="91%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="4%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>(In millions)</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="4">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Year Ending June&#xA0;30,</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">2013</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">527</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">2014</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">421</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">2015</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">327</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">2016</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">223</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">2017</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">164</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Thereafter</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">315</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="4">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Total</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;1,977</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
</table>
</div>
<div>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>Accounting
Principles</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">The financial statements
and accompanying notes are prepared in accordance with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States of America
(&#x201C;U.S. GAAP&#x201D;).</font></p>
</div>
51960000000
<div>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">The items accounting for
the difference between income taxes computed at the U.S. federal
statutory rate and our effective rate were as follows:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 12px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="79%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="2%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="2%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="2%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="12">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Year Ended June&#xA0;30,</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2012</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2011</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2010</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Federal statutory rate</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>35.0%</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">35.0%</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">35.0%</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Effect of:</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Foreign earnings taxed at lower
rates</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(21.1)%</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(15.6)%</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(12.1)%</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Goodwill impairment</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>9.7%</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0%</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0%</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">I.R.S. settlement</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0%</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(1.7)%</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0%</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Other reconciling items,
net</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0.2%</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(0.2)%</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">2.1%</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="4">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 3em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Effective rate</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>23.8%</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">17.5%</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">25.0%</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
</table>
</div>
<div>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Employees purchased the
following shares during the periods presented:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 12px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="79%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>(Shares in millions)</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="12">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Year Ended June&#xA0;30,</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2012</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2011</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2010</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Shares purchased</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>20</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">20</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">20</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Average price per share</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;25.03</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;22.98</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;23.73</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
</div>
5000000
<div>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="center">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><u>NOTE 18 &#x2014;
STOCKHOLDERS&#x2019; EQUITY</u></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>Shares Outstanding</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Shares of common stock
outstanding were as follows:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 12px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="82%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="2%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="2%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="2%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>(In millions)</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="12">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Year Ended June&#xA0;30,</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2012</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2011</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2010</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Balance, beginning of year</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>8,376</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">8,668</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">8,908</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Issued</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>147</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">155</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">140</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Repurchased</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(142</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(447</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(380</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="4">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Balance, end of year</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>8,381</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">8,376</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">8,668</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 18px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>Share Repurchases</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">On September&#xA0;22,
2008, we announced that our Board of Directors approved a share
repurchase program authorizing up to $40.0 billion in share
repurchases with an expiration date of September&#xA0;30, 2013. As
of June&#xA0;30, 2012, approximately $8.2 billion of the approved
repurchase amount remained. The repurchase program may be suspended
or discontinued at any time without prior notice.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">We repurchased the
following shares of common stock under the above-described
repurchase plan using cash resources:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 12px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="56%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="2%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="2%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="2%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="2%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="2%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="2%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>(In millions)</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Shares</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Amount</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Shares</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Amount</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Shares</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Amount</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="24">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Year Ended June&#xA0;30,</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2012</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2011</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2010</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">First quarter</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>38</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;1,000</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">163</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">4,000</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">58</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">1,445</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Second quarter</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>39</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>1,000</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">188</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">5,000</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">125</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">3,583</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Third quarter</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>31</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>1,000</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">30</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">827</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">67</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">2,000</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Fourth quarter</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>34</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>1,000</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">66</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">1,631</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">130</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">3,808</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="4">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Total</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>142</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>4,000</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">447</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;11,458</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">380</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;10,836</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 18px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>Dividends</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">In fiscal year 2012, our
Board of Directors declared the following dividends:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 12px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="44%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Declaration Date</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Dividend</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Per&#xA0;Share</b></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Record Date</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Total&#xA0;Amount</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Payment&#xA0;Date</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="16">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>(In millions)</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>September 20, 2011</b></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;0.20</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>November&#xA0;17,&#xA0;2011</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;1,683</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>December&#xA0;8,&#xA0;2011</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>December 14, 2011</b></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0.20</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>February 16, 2012</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>1,683</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>March 8, 2012</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>March 13, 2012</b></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0.20</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>May 17, 2012</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>1,678</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>June 14, 2012</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>June 13, 2012</b></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0.20</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>August 16, 2012</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>1,676</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>September&#xA0;13,&#xA0;2012</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="left" size="1" noshade="noshade" />
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">The dividend declared on
June&#xA0;13, 2012 will be paid after the filing date of this
report on Form 10-K and was included in other current liabilities
as of June&#xA0;30, 2012.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">In fiscal year 2011, our
Board of Directors declared the following dividends:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 12px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="43%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="4%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="4%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="4%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="4%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Declaration Date</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Dividend</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Per&#xA0;Share</b></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Record Date</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Total&#xA0;Amount</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Payment&#xA0;Date</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="16">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>(In millions)</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">September 21, 2010</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;0.16</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">November&#xA0;18,&#xA0;2010</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;1,363</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">December&#xA0;9,&#xA0;2010</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">December 15, 2010</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0.16</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">February 17, 2011</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">1,349</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">March 10, 2011</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">March 14, 2011</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0.16</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">May 19, 2011</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">1,350</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">June 9, 2011</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">June 15, 2011</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0.16</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">August 18, 2011</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">1,341</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">September&#xA0;8,&#xA0;2011</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="left" size="1" noshade="noshade" />
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 1px">
&#xA0;</p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">The dividend declared on
June&#xA0;15, 2011 was included in other current liabilities as of
June&#xA0;30, 2011.</font></p>
</div>
10000000
456000000
57250000000
21763000000
785000000
160000000
<div>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 18px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>Revenue Recognition</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Revenue is recognized
when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has
occurred, the fee is fixed or determinable, and collectibility is
probable. Revenue generally is recognized net of allowances for
returns and any taxes collected from customers and subsequently
remitted to governmental authorities.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Revenue for retail
packaged products, products licensed to original equipment
manufacturers (&#x201C;OEMs&#x201D;), and perpetual licenses under
certain volume licensing programs generally is recognized as
products are shipped or made available. Revenue for products under
technology guarantee programs, which provide free or significantly
discounted rights to use upcoming new versions of a software
product if an end user licenses existing versions of the product
during the eligibility period, is allocated between existing
product and the new product, and revenue allocated to the new
product is deferred until that version is delivered. The revenue
allocation is based on vendor-specific objective evidence of fair
value of the products.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Certain multi-year
licensing arrangements include a perpetual license for current
products combined with rights to receive future versions of
software products on a when-and-if-available basis (&#x201C;Software
Assurance&#x201D;) and are accounted for as subscriptions, with
billings recorded as unearned revenue and recognized as revenue
ratably over the billing coverage period. Revenue from certain
arrangements that allow for the use of a product or service over a
period of time without taking possession of software are also
accounted for as subscriptions. Revenue for software products where
customers have the right to receive unspecified
upgrades/enhancements on a when-and-if-available basis and for
which vendor-specific objective evidence of fair value does not
exist for the upgrades/enhancements is recognized on a
straight-line basis over the estimated life of the
software.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Revenue related to our
Xbox 360 gaming and entertainment console, Kinect for Xbox 360,
games published by us, and other hardware components is generally
recognized when ownership is transferred to the resellers. Revenue
related to games published by third parties for use on the Xbox 360
platform is recognized when games are manufactured by the game
publishers.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Display advertising
revenue is recognized as advertisements are displayed. Search
advertising revenue is recognized when the ad appears in the search
results or when the action necessary to earn the revenue has been
completed. Consulting services revenue is recognized as services
are rendered, generally based on the negotiated hourly rate in the
consulting arrangement and the number of hours worked during the
period. Consulting revenue for fixed-price services arrangements is
recognized as services are provided. Revenue from prepaid points
redeemable for the purchase of software or services is recognized
upon redemption of the points and delivery of the software or
services.</font></p>
</div>
-31000000
<div>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 18px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>Inventories</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Inventories are stated at
the lower of cost or market, using the average cost method. Cost
includes materials, labor, and manufacturing overhead related to
the purchase and production of inventories. We regularly review
inventory quantities on hand, future purchase commitments with our
suppliers, and the estimated utility of our inventory. If our
review indicates a reduction in utility below carrying value, we
reduce our inventory to a new cost basis through a charge to cost
of revenue.</font></p>
</div>
1913000000
AAA
-93000000
P9M29D
<div>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 18px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="center">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><u>NOTE 14 &#x2014;
UNEARNED REVENUE</u></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Unearned revenue
comprises mainly unearned revenue from volume licensing programs,
and payments for offerings for which we have been paid in advance
and we earn the revenue when we provide the service or software or
otherwise meet the revenue recognition criteria.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 18px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>Volume Licensing
Programs</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Unearned revenue from
volume licensing programs represents customer billings for
multi-year licensing arrangements paid either at inception of the
agreement or annually at the beginning of each billing coverage
period and accounted for as subscriptions with revenue recognized
ratably over the billing coverage period.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 18px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>Other</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Also included in unearned
revenue are payments for post-delivery support and consulting
services to be performed in the future; Xbox LIVE subscriptions and
prepaid points; sales of Windows 7 with an option to upgrade to
Windows&#xA0;8 at a discounted price (the &#x201C;Windows Upgrade
Offer&#x201D;); Microsoft Dynamics business solutions products;
Skype prepaid credits and subscriptions; OEM minimum commitments;
and other offerings for which we have been paid in advance and earn
the revenue when we provide the service or software, or otherwise
meet the revenue recognition criteria.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 1px">
&#xA0;</p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">The components of
unearned revenue were as follows:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 12px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="88%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>(In millions)</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="8">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>June&#xA0;30,</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2012</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2011</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Volume licensing programs</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;16,717</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;14,625</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Other&#xA0;</font><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(a)</sup></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>3,342</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">2,495</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="4">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Total</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>20,059</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">17,120</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 6px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td valign="top" width="4%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(a)</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left">
<p align="justify"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><i>Other as of June&#xA0;30, 2012 includes $540 million of
unearned revenue associated with the Windows Upgrade
Offer.</i></font></p>
</td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Unearned revenue by
segment was as follows:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 12px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="88%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>(In millions)</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="8">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>June&#xA0;30,</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2012</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2011</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Windows&#xA0;&amp; Windows Live
Division</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>2,444</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">1,782</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Server and Tools</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>7,445</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">6,315</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Microsoft Business
Division</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>9,015</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">8,187</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Other segments</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>1,155</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">836</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="4">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Total</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;20,059</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;17,120</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Fiscal year 2011 amounts
have been recast for the fiscal year 2012 movement of Forefront
Protection for Office, an anti-malware solution, from Server and
Tools to the Microsoft Business Division.</font></p>
</div>
38846000000
1000000
<div>
<p style="margin-top: 18px; margin-bottom: 0px;" align="center"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><u>NOTE 20 &#8212; EMPLOYEE STOCK AND SAVINGS PLANS</u></font></p>
<p style="margin-top: 12px; margin-bottom: 0px;" align="justify"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">We grant stock-based compensation to directors and employees. At June&#160;30, 2012, an aggregate of 507&#160;million shares were authorized for future grant under our stock plans, covering stock options, stock awards, and shared performance stock awards, and excluding shares reserved for issuance under our employee stock purchase plan. Awards that expire or are canceled without delivery of shares generally become available for issuance under the plans. We issue new shares of Microsoft common stock to satisfy exercises and vestings of awards granted under all of our stock plans.</font></p>
<p style="margin-top: 12px; margin-bottom: 0px;" align="justify"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">Stock-based compensation expense and related income tax benefits were as follows:</font></p>
<p style="font-size: 12px; margin-top: 0px; margin-bottom: 0px;">&#160;</p>
<table style="border-collapse: collapse;" width="100%" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="79%">&#160;</td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%">&#160;</td>
<td>&#160;</td>
<td>&#160;</td>
<td>&#160;</td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%">&#160;</td>
<td>&#160;</td>
<td>&#160;</td>
<td>&#160;</td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%">&#160;</td>
<td>&#160;</td>
<td>&#160;</td>
<td>&#160;</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="1"><b>(In millions)</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;&#160;</font></td>
<td colspan="2" valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td colspan="2" valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td colspan="2" valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td colspan="12" valign="bottom"><hr style="color: #000000;" noshade="noshade" size="1" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><hr style="color: #ffffff;" align="left" noshade="noshade" size="1" width="0" /></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5">&#160;</td>
<td colspan="4" height="5">&#160;</td>
<td colspan="4" height="5">&#160;</td>
<td colspan="4" height="5">&#160;</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="1"><b>Year Ended June&#160;30,</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;&#160;</font></td>
<td colspan="2" align="right" valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="1"><b>2012</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td colspan="2" align="right" valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="1"><b>2011</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td colspan="2" align="right" valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="1"><b>2010</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5">&#160;</td>
<td colspan="4" height="5">&#160;</td>
<td colspan="4" height="5">&#160;</td>
<td colspan="4" height="5">&#160;</td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#cceeff">
<td valign="top">
<p style="text-indent: -1em; margin-left: 1em;"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">Stock-based compensation expense</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td align="right" valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><b>&#160;&#160;2,244</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><b>&#160;&#160;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">$</font></td>
<td align="right" valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">&#160;&#160;2,166</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">&#160;&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">$</font></td>
<td align="right" valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">&#160;&#160;1,891</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">&#160;&#160;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="text-indent: -1em; margin-left: 1em;"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">Income tax benefits related to stock-based compensation</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td align="right" valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><b>785</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><b>&#160;&#160;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">$</font></td>
<td align="right" valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">758</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">&#160;&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">$</font></td>
<td align="right" valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">662</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">&#160;&#160;</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<hr style="color: #000000;" align="left" noshade="noshade" size="1" />
<p style="font-size: 1px; margin-top: 18px; margin-bottom: 0px;">&#160;</p>
<p style="margin-top: 0px; margin-bottom: 0px;"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><b>Stock Plans (Excluding Stock Options)</b></font></p>
<p style="margin-top: 12px; margin-bottom: 0px;"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><i>Stock awards</i></font></p>
<p style="margin-top: 12px; margin-bottom: 0px;" align="justify"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">Stock awards (&#8220;SAs&#8221;) are grants that entitle the holder to shares of Microsoft common stock as the award vests. Our SAs generally vest over a five-year period.</font></p>
<p style="margin-top: 18px; margin-bottom: 0px;"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><i>Shared performance stock awards</i></font></p>
<p style="margin-top: 12px; margin-bottom: 0px;" align="justify"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">Shared performance stock awards (&#8220;SPSAs&#8221;) are a form of SA in which the number of shares ultimately received depends on our business performance against specified performance targets.</font></p>
<p style="margin-top: 12px; margin-bottom: 0px;" align="justify"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">We granted SPSAs for fiscal years 2012, 2011, and 2010 with performance periods of July&#160;1, 2011 through June&#160;30, 2012,&#160;July&#160;1, 2010 through June&#160;30, 2011, and July&#160;1, 2009 through June&#160;30, 2010, respectively. In August following the end of each performance period, the number of shares of stock subject to the award is determined by multiplying the target award by a percentage ranging from 0% to 150%. The percentage is based on performance metrics for the performance period, as determined by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors in its sole discretion. An additional number of shares, approximately 12% of the total target SPSAs, are available as additional awards to participants based on individual performance. One-quarter of the shares of stock subject to each award vest following the end of the performance period, and an additional one-quarter of the shares vest on each of the following three anniversaries of the grant date.</font></p>
<p style="margin-top: 18px; margin-bottom: 0px;"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><i>Executive officer incentive plan</i></font></p>
<p style="margin-top: 12px; margin-bottom: 0px;" align="justify"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">Under the Executive Officer Incentive Plan (&#8220;EOIP&#8221;), the Compensation Committee awards performance-based compensation to executive officers for specified performance periods.&#160;During the periods reported, executive officers were eligible to receive annual awards comprising cash and SAs from an aggregate incentive pool equal to a percentage of consolidated operating income. For fiscal years 2012, 2011, and 2010, the pool was 0.3%, 0.25%, and 0.45% of operating income, respectively.</font></p>
<p style="margin-top: 12px; margin-bottom: 0px;" align="justify"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">In September following the end of the fiscal year, each executive officer may receive a combined cash and SA award with a total value equal to a fixed percentage of the aggregate pool. The fixed percentage ranges between 0% and 150% of a target based on an assessment of the executive officer&#8217;s performance during the prior fiscal year. Following approval of the awards, 20% of the award is payable to the executive officers in cash, and the remaining 80% is converted into an SA for shares of Microsoft common stock. The number of shares subject to the SA portion of the award is determined by dividing the value of 80% of the total award by the closing price of Microsoft common stock on the last business day in August&#160;of each year. The SA portion of the award vests one-quarter immediately after the award is approved following fiscal year-end&#160;and one-quarter on August&#160;31 of each of the following three years.</font></p>
<p style="margin-top: 18px; margin-bottom: 0px;"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><i>Activity for all stock plans</i></font></p>
<p style="margin-top: 12px; margin-bottom: 0px;" align="justify"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">The fair value of each award was estimated on the date of grant using the following assumptions:</font></p>
<p style="font-size: 12px; margin-top: 0px; margin-bottom: 0px;">&#160;</p>
<hr style="color: #000000;" align="left" noshade="noshade" size="1" />
<table style="border-collapse: collapse;" width="100%" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="79%">&#160;</td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%">&#160;</td>
<td>&#160;</td>
<td>&#160;</td>
<td>&#160;</td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%">&#160;</td>
<td>&#160;</td>
<td>&#160;</td>
<td>&#160;</td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%">&#160;</td>
<td>&#160;</td>
<td>&#160;</td>
<td>&#160;</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5">&#160;</td>
<td colspan="4" height="5">&#160;</td>
<td colspan="4" height="5">&#160;</td>
<td colspan="4" height="5">&#160;</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="1"><b>Year Ended June&#160;30,</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;&#160;</font></td>
<td colspan="2" align="right" valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="1"><b>2012</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td colspan="2" align="right" valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="1"><b>2011</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td colspan="2" align="right" valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="1"><b>2010</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5">&#160;</td>
<td colspan="4" height="5">&#160;</td>
<td colspan="4" height="5">&#160;</td>
<td colspan="4" height="5">&#160;</td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#cceeff">
<td valign="top">
<p style="text-indent: -1em; margin-left: 1em;"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">Dividends per share (quarterly amounts)</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td align="right" valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><b>&#160;&#160;0.16&#160;-&#160;$&#160;&#160;0.20</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><b>&#160;&#160;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">$</font></td>
<td align="right" valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">&#160;&#160;0.13&#160;-&#160;$&#160;&#160;0.16</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">&#160;&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">$</font></td>
<td align="right" valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">0.13</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">&#160;&#160;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="text-indent: -1em; margin-left: 1em;"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">Interest rates range</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><b>&#160;</b></font></td>
<td align="right" valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><b>0.7%&#160;-&#160;1.7%</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><b>&#160;&#160;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">&#160;</font></td>
<td align="right" valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">1.1%&#160;-&#160;2.4%</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">&#160;&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">&#160;</font></td>
<td align="right" valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">&#160;&#160;2.1%&#160;-&#160;2.9%</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">&#160;&#160;</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<hr style="color: #000000;" align="left" noshade="noshade" size="1" />
<p style="font-size: 1px; margin-top: 12px; margin-bottom: 0px;">&#160;</p>
<p style="margin-top: 0px; margin-bottom: 0px;" align="justify"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">During fiscal year 2012, the following activity occurred under our stock plans:</font></p>
<p style="font-size: 12px; margin-top: 0px; margin-bottom: 0px;">&#160;</p>
<table style="border-collapse: collapse;" width="100%" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="87%">&#160;</td>
<td valign="bottom" width="4%">&#160;</td>
<td>&#160;</td>
<td>&#160;</td>
<td>&#160;</td>
<td valign="bottom" width="4%">&#160;</td>
<td>&#160;</td>
<td>&#160;</td>
<td>&#160;</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;&#160;</font></td>
<td colspan="2" align="right" valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="1"><b>Shares</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td colspan="2" align="right" valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap">
<p style="margin-top: 0px; margin-bottom: 0px;" align="right"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="1"><b>Weighted</b></font></p>
<p style="margin-top: 0px; margin-bottom: 0px;" align="right"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="1"><b>Average</b></font></p>
<p style="margin-top: 0px; margin-bottom: 0px;" align="right"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="1"><b>Grant-Date</b></font></p>
<p style="margin-top: 0px; margin-bottom: 1px;" align="right"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="1"><b>Fair Value</b></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td colspan="8" valign="bottom"><hr style="color: #000000;" noshade="noshade" size="1" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><hr style="color: #ffffff;" align="left" noshade="noshade" size="1" width="0" /></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;&#160;</font></td>
<td colspan="2" align="right" valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="1"><b>(In&#160;millions)</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td colspan="2" valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5">&#160;</td>
<td colspan="4" height="5">&#160;</td>
<td colspan="4" height="5">&#160;</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="1"><b>Stock Awards</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;&#160;</font></td>
<td colspan="2" valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td colspan="2" valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5">&#160;</td>
<td colspan="4" height="5">&#160;</td>
<td colspan="4" height="5">&#160;</td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#cceeff">
<td valign="top">
<p style="text-indent: -1em; margin-left: 1em;"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">Nonvested balance, beginning of year</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><b>&#160;</b></font></td>
<td align="right" valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><b>255</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><b>&#160;&#160;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td align="right" valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><b>&#160;&#160;23.59</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><b>&#160;&#160;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="text-indent: -1em; margin-left: 2em;"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">Granted</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><b>&#160;</b></font></td>
<td align="right" valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><b>90</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><b>&#160;&#160;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td align="right" valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><b>24.96</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><b>&#160;&#160;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#cceeff">
<td valign="top">
<p style="text-indent: -1em; margin-left: 2em;"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">Vested</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><b>&#160;</b></font></td>
<td align="right" valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><b>(73</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><b>)&#160;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td align="right" valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><b>24.20</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><b>&#160;&#160;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="text-indent: -1em; margin-left: 2em;"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">Forfeited</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><b>&#160;</b></font></td>
<td align="right" valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><b>(24</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><b>)&#160;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td align="right" valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><b>23.74</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><b>&#160;&#160;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td colspan="4" valign="bottom"><hr style="color: #000000;" noshade="noshade" size="1" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><hr style="color: #ffffff;" align="left" noshade="noshade" size="1" width="0" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#cceeff">
<td valign="top">
<p style="text-indent: -1em; margin-left: 1em;"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">Nonvested balance, end of year</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><b>&#160;</b></font></td>
<td align="right" valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><b>248</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><b>&#160;&#160;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td align="right" valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><b>23.90</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><b>&#160;&#160;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><hr style="color: #595959;" align="right" noshade="noshade" size="3" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><hr style="color: #595959;" noshade="noshade" size="3" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><hr style="color: #ffffff;" align="left" noshade="noshade" size="3" width="0" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5">&#160;</td>
<td colspan="4" height="5">&#160;</td>
<td colspan="4" height="5">&#160;</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="1"><b>Shared Performance Stock Awards</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;&#160;</font></td>
<td colspan="2" valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td colspan="2" valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5">&#160;</td>
<td colspan="4" height="5">&#160;</td>
<td colspan="4" height="5">&#160;</td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#cceeff">
<td valign="top">
<p style="text-indent: -1em; margin-left: 1em;"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">Nonvested balance, beginning of year</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><b>&#160;</b></font></td>
<td align="right" valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><b>32</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><b>&#160;&#160;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td align="right" valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><b>23.76</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><b>&#160;&#160;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="text-indent: -1em; margin-left: 2em;"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">Granted</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><b>&#160;</b></font></td>
<td align="right" valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><b>20</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><b>&#160;&#160;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td align="right" valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><b>22.88</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><b>&#160;&#160;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#cceeff">
<td valign="top">
<p style="text-indent: -1em; margin-left: 2em;"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">Vested</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><b>&#160;</b></font></td>
<td align="right" valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><b>(15</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><b>)&#160;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td align="right" valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><b>24.69</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><b>&#160;&#160;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="text-indent: -1em; margin-left: 2em;"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">Forfeited</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><b>&#160;</b></font></td>
<td align="right" valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><b>(4</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><b>)&#160;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td align="right" valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><b>23.82</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><b>&#160;&#160;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td colspan="4" valign="bottom"><hr style="color: #000000;" noshade="noshade" size="1" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><hr style="color: #ffffff;" align="left" noshade="noshade" size="1" width="0" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#cceeff">
<td valign="top">
<p style="text-indent: -1em; margin-left: 1em;"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">Nonvested balance, end of year</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><b>&#160;</b></font></td>
<td align="right" valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><b>33</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><b>&#160;&#160;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td align="right" valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><b>23.93</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><b>&#160;&#160;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><hr style="color: #595959;" align="right" noshade="noshade" size="3" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><hr style="color: #595959;" noshade="noshade" size="3" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><hr style="color: #ffffff;" align="left" noshade="noshade" size="3" width="0" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="margin-top: 12px; margin-bottom: 0px;" align="justify"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">As of June&#160;30, 2012, there was $4.4 billion and $495 million of total unrecognized compensation costs related to SAs and SPSAs, respectively. These costs are expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of 2.9 years and 2.5 years, respectively.</font></p>
<p style="margin-top: 12px; margin-bottom: 0px;" align="justify"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">During fiscal year 2011 and 2010, the following activity occurred under our stock plans:</font></p>
<p style="font-size: 12px; margin-top: 0px; margin-bottom: 0px;">&#160;</p>
<table style="border-collapse: collapse;" width="100%" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="88%">&#160;</td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%">&#160;</td>
<td>&#160;</td>
<td>&#160;</td>
<td>&#160;</td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%">&#160;</td>
<td>&#160;</td>
<td>&#160;</td>
<td>&#160;</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="1"><b>(In millions, except fair values)</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;&#160;</font></td>
<td colspan="2" align="right" valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="1"><b>2011</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td colspan="2" align="right" valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="1"><b>2010</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td colspan="8" valign="bottom"><hr style="color: #000000;" noshade="noshade" size="1" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><hr style="color: #ffffff;" align="left" noshade="noshade" size="1" width="0" /></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5">&#160;</td>
<td colspan="4" height="5">&#160;</td>
<td colspan="4" height="5">&#160;</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="1"><b>Stock Awards</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;&#160;</font></td>
<td colspan="2" valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td colspan="2" valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5">&#160;</td>
<td colspan="4" height="5">&#160;</td>
<td colspan="4" height="5">&#160;</td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#cceeff">
<td valign="top">
<p style="text-indent: -1em; margin-left: 1em;"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">Awards granted</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">&#160;</font></td>
<td align="right" valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">114</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">&#160;&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">&#160;</font></td>
<td align="right" valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">100</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">&#160;&#160;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="text-indent: -1em; margin-left: 1em;"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">Weighted average grant-date fair value</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">$</font></td>
<td align="right" valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">22.17</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">&#160;&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">$</font></td>
<td align="right" valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">23.43</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">&#160;&#160;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="8">&#160;</td>
<td colspan="4" height="8">&#160;</td>
<td colspan="4" height="8">&#160;</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="1"><b>Shared Performance Stock Awards</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;&#160;</font></td>
<td colspan="2" valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td colspan="2" valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5">&#160;</td>
<td colspan="4" height="5">&#160;</td>
<td colspan="4" height="5">&#160;</td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#cceeff">
<td valign="top">
<p style="text-indent: -1em; margin-left: 1em;"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">Awards granted</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">&#160;</font></td>
<td align="right" valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">18</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">&#160;&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">&#160;</font></td>
<td align="right" valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">12</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">&#160;&#160;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="text-indent: -1em; margin-left: 1em;"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">Weighted average grant-date fair value</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">$</font></td>
<td align="right" valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">&#160;&#160;22.56</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">&#160;&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">$</font></td>
<td align="right" valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">&#160;&#160;24.57</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">&#160;&#160;</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<hr style="color: #000000;" align="left" noshade="noshade" size="1" />
<p style="margin-top: 12px; margin-bottom: 0px;" align="justify"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">Following are the fair values of stock plan awards vested during the periods reported:</font></p>
<p style="font-size: 12px; margin-top: 0px; margin-bottom: 0px;">&#160;</p>
<table style="border-collapse: collapse;" width="100%" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="79%">&#160;</td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%">&#160;</td>
<td>&#160;</td>
<td>&#160;</td>
<td>&#160;</td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%">&#160;</td>
<td>&#160;</td>
<td>&#160;</td>
<td>&#160;</td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%">&#160;</td>
<td>&#160;</td>
<td>&#160;</td>
<td>&#160;</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="1"><b>(In millions)</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;&#160;</font></td>
<td colspan="2" valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td colspan="2" valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td colspan="2" valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td colspan="12" valign="bottom"><hr style="color: #000000;" noshade="noshade" size="1" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><hr style="color: #ffffff;" align="left" noshade="noshade" size="1" width="0" /></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5">&#160;</td>
<td colspan="4" height="5">&#160;</td>
<td colspan="4" height="5">&#160;</td>
<td colspan="4" height="5">&#160;</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;&#160;</font></td>
<td colspan="2" align="right" valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="1"><b>2012</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td colspan="2" align="right" valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="1"><b>2011</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td colspan="2" align="right" valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="1"><b>2010</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5">&#160;</td>
<td colspan="4" height="5">&#160;</td>
<td colspan="4" height="5">&#160;</td>
<td colspan="4" height="5">&#160;</td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#cceeff">
<td valign="top">
<p style="text-indent: -1em; margin-left: 1em;"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">Total vest-date fair value of stock awards vested</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td align="right" valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><b>&#160;&#160;1,971</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><b>&#160;&#160;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">$</font></td>
<td align="right" valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">&#160;&#160;1,521</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">&#160;&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">$</font></td>
<td align="right" valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">&#160;&#160;1,358</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">&#160;&#160;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="text-indent: -1em; margin-left: 1em;"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">Total vest-date fair value of shared performance stock awards vested</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td align="right" valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><b>388</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><b>&#160;&#160;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">$</font></td>
<td align="right" valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">289</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">&#160;&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">$</font></td>
<td align="right" valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">227</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">&#160;&#160;</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<hr style="color: #000000;" align="left" noshade="noshade" size="1" />
<p style="margin-top: 18px; margin-bottom: 0px;"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><b>Stock Options</b></font></p>
<p style="margin-top: 12px; margin-bottom: 0px;" align="justify"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">Currently, we&#160;grant stock options primarily in conjunction with business acquisitions. We granted six million, zero, and one&#160;million stock options in conjunction with business acquisitions during fiscal years 2012, 2011, and 2010, respectively.</font></p>
<p style="font-size: 1px; margin-top: 12px; margin-bottom: 0px;">&#160;</p>
<p style="margin-top: 0px; margin-bottom: 0px;" align="justify"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">Employee stock options activity during 2012 was as follows:</font></p>
<p style="font-size: 12px; margin-top: 0px; margin-bottom: 0px;">&#160;</p>
<table style="border-collapse: collapse;" width="100%" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="82%">&#160;</td>
<td valign="bottom" width="2%">&#160;</td>
<td>&#160;</td>
<td>&#160;</td>
<td>&#160;</td>
<td valign="bottom" width="2%">&#160;</td>
<td>&#160;</td>
<td>&#160;</td>
<td>&#160;</td>
<td valign="bottom" width="2%">&#160;</td>
<td>&#160;</td>
<td>&#160;</td>
<td>&#160;</td>
<td valign="bottom" width="2%">&#160;</td>
<td>&#160;</td>
<td>&#160;</td>
<td>&#160;</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;&#160;</font></td>
<td colspan="2" align="right" valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="1"><b>Shares</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td colspan="2" align="right" valign="bottom">
<p style="margin-top: 0px; margin-bottom: 0px;" align="right"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="1"><b>Weighted</b></font></p>
<p style="margin-top: 0px; margin-bottom: 0px;" align="right"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="1"><b>Average</b></font></p>
<p style="margin-top: 0px; margin-bottom: 1px;" align="right"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="1"><b>Exercise&#160;Price</b></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td colspan="2" align="right" valign="bottom">
<p style="margin-top: 0px; margin-bottom: 0px;" align="right"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="1"><b>Weighted</b></font></p>
<p style="margin-top: 0px; margin-bottom: 0px;" align="right"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="1"><b>Average</b></font></p>
<p style="margin-top: 0px; margin-bottom: 0px;" align="right"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="1"><b>Remaining</b></font></p>
<p style="margin-top: 0px; margin-bottom: 0px;" align="right"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="1"><b>Contractual</b></font></p>
<p style="margin-top: 0px; margin-bottom: 1px;" align="right"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="1"><b>Term</b></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td colspan="2" align="right" valign="bottom">
<p style="margin-top: 0px; margin-bottom: 0px;" align="right"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="1"><b>Aggregate</b></font></p>
<p style="margin-top: 0px; margin-bottom: 0px;" align="right"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="1"><b>Intrinsic</b></font></p>
<p style="margin-top: 0px; margin-bottom: 1px;" align="right"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="1"><b>Value</b></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td colspan="16" valign="bottom"><hr style="color: #000000;" noshade="noshade" size="1" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><hr style="color: #ffffff;" align="left" noshade="noshade" size="1" width="0" /></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;&#160;</font></td>
<td colspan="2" align="right" valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="1"><b>(In&#160;millions)</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td colspan="2" valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td colspan="2" align="right" valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="1"><b>(Years)</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td colspan="2" align="right" valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="1"><b>(In&#160;millions)</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5">&#160;</td>
<td colspan="4" height="5">&#160;</td>
<td colspan="4" height="5">&#160;</td>
<td colspan="4" height="5">&#160;</td>
<td colspan="4" height="5">&#160;</td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#cceeff">
<td valign="top">
<p style="text-indent: -1em; margin-left: 1em;"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">Balance, July&#160;1, 2011</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><b>&#160;</b></font></td>
<td align="right" valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><b>93</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><b>&#160;&#160;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td align="right" valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><b>23.21</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><b>&#160;&#160;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="text-indent: -1em; margin-left: 2em;"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">Granted</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><b>&#160;</b></font></td>
<td align="right" valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><b>6</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><b>&#160;&#160;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td align="right" valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><b>9.41</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><b>&#160;&#160;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#cceeff">
<td valign="top">
<p style="text-indent: -1em; margin-left: 2em;"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">Exercised</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><b>&#160;</b></font></td>
<td align="right" valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><b>(64</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><b>)&#160;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td align="right" valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><b>&#160;&#160;22.20</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><b>&#160;&#160;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="text-indent: -1em; margin-left: 2em;"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">Canceled</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><b>&#160;</b></font></td>
<td align="right" valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><b>(13</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><b>)&#160;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td align="right" valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><b>29.44</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><b>&#160;&#160;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td colspan="4" valign="bottom"><hr style="color: #000000;" noshade="noshade" size="1" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><hr style="color: #ffffff;" align="left" noshade="noshade" size="1" width="0" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#cceeff">
<td valign="top">
<p style="text-indent: -1em; margin-left: 1em;"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">Balance, June&#160;30, 2012</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><b>&#160;</b></font></td>
<td align="right" valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><b>22</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><b>&#160;&#160;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td align="right" valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><b>18.69</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><b>&#160;&#160;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><b>&#160;</b></font></td>
<td align="right" valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><b>2.15</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><b>&#160;&#160;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td align="right" valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><b>&#160;&#160;264</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><b>&#160;&#160;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="text-indent: -1em; margin-left: 1em;"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">Exercisable, June&#160;30, 2012</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><b>&#160;</b></font></td>
<td align="right" valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><b>18</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><b>&#160;&#160;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td align="right" valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><b>20.77</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><b>&#160;&#160;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><b>&#160;</b></font></td>
<td align="right" valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><b>0.83</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><b>&#160;&#160;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td align="right" valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><b>178</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><b>&#160;&#160;</b></font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<hr style="color: #000000;" align="left" noshade="noshade" size="1" />
<p style="margin-top: 12px; margin-bottom: 0px;" align="justify"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">As of June&#160;30, 2012 approximately six&#160;million options that were granted in conjunction with business acquisitions were outstanding. These options have an exercise price range of $0.01 to $29.24 and a weighted average exercise price of $9.33.</font></p>
<p style="margin-top: 12px; margin-bottom: 0px;" align="justify"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">During the periods reported, the following stock option exercise activity occurred:</font></p>
<p style="font-size: 12px; margin-top: 0px; margin-bottom: 0px;">&#160;</p>
<table style="border-collapse: collapse;" width="100%" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="79%">&#160;</td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%">&#160;</td>
<td>&#160;</td>
<td>&#160;</td>
<td>&#160;</td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%">&#160;</td>
<td>&#160;</td>
<td>&#160;</td>
<td>&#160;</td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%">&#160;</td>
<td>&#160;</td>
<td>&#160;</td>
<td>&#160;</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="1"><b>(In millions)</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;&#160;</font></td>
<td colspan="2" valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td colspan="2" valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td colspan="2" valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td colspan="12" valign="bottom"><hr style="color: #000000;" noshade="noshade" size="1" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><hr style="color: #ffffff;" align="left" noshade="noshade" size="1" width="0" /></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5">&#160;</td>
<td colspan="4" height="5">&#160;</td>
<td colspan="4" height="5">&#160;</td>
<td colspan="4" height="5">&#160;</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;&#160;</font></td>
<td colspan="2" align="right" valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="1"><b>2012</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td colspan="2" align="right" valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="1"><b>2011</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td colspan="2" align="right" valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="1"><b>2010</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5">&#160;</td>
<td colspan="4" height="5">&#160;</td>
<td colspan="4" height="5">&#160;</td>
<td colspan="4" height="5">&#160;</td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#cceeff">
<td valign="top">
<p style="text-indent: -1em; margin-left: 1em;"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">Total intrinsic value of stock options exercised</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td align="right" valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><b>456</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><b>&#160;&#160;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">$</font></td>
<td align="right" valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">222</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">&#160;&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">$</font></td>
<td align="right" valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">365</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">&#160;&#160;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="text-indent: -1em; margin-left: 1em;"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">Cash received from stock option exercises</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td align="right" valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><b>&#160;&#160;1,410</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><b>&#160;&#160;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">$</font></td>
<td align="right" valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">&#160;&#160;1,954</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">&#160;&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">$</font></td>
<td align="right" valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">&#160;&#160;1,839</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">&#160;&#160;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#cceeff">
<td valign="top">
<p style="text-indent: -1em; margin-left: 1em;"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">Tax benefit realized from stock option exercises</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td align="right" valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><b>160</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><b>&#160;&#160;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">$</font></td>
<td align="right" valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">77</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">&#160;&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">$</font></td>
<td align="right" valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">126</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">&#160;&#160;</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<hr style="color: #000000;" align="left" noshade="noshade" size="1" />
<p style="margin-top: 18px; margin-bottom: 0px;"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><b>Employee Stock Purchase Plan</b></font></p>
<p style="margin-top: 12px; margin-bottom: 0px;" align="justify"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">We have an employee stock purchase plan (the &#8220;Plan&#8221;) for all eligible employees. Shares of our common stock may be purchased by employees at three-month intervals at 90% of the fair market value on the last trading day of each three-month period. Employees may purchase shares having a value not exceeding 15% of their gross compensation during an offering period. Under the terms of the Plan that were approved in 2002, the Plan will terminate on December&#160;31, 2012.&#160;Microsoft intends to request shareholder approval to renew the Plan and reserve additional shares for issuance under the Plan before December&#160;31, 2012. Employees purchased the following shares during the periods presented:</font></p>
<p style="font-size: 12px; margin-top: 0px; margin-bottom: 0px;">&#160;</p>
<table style="border-collapse: collapse;" width="100%" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="79%">&#160;</td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%">&#160;</td>
<td>&#160;</td>
<td>&#160;</td>
<td>&#160;</td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%">&#160;</td>
<td>&#160;</td>
<td>&#160;</td>
<td>&#160;</td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%">&#160;</td>
<td>&#160;</td>
<td>&#160;</td>
<td>&#160;</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="1"><b>(Shares in millions)</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;&#160;</font></td>
<td colspan="2" valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td colspan="2" valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td colspan="2" valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td colspan="12" valign="bottom"><hr style="color: #000000;" noshade="noshade" size="1" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><hr style="color: #ffffff;" align="left" noshade="noshade" size="1" width="0" /></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5">&#160;</td>
<td colspan="4" height="5">&#160;</td>
<td colspan="4" height="5">&#160;</td>
<td colspan="4" height="5">&#160;</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="1"><b>Year Ended June&#160;30,</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;&#160;</font></td>
<td colspan="2" align="right" valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="1"><b>2012</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td colspan="2" align="right" valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="1"><b>2011</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td colspan="2" align="right" valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="1"><b>2010</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5">&#160;</td>
<td colspan="4" height="5">&#160;</td>
<td colspan="4" height="5">&#160;</td>
<td colspan="4" height="5">&#160;</td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#cceeff">
<td valign="top">
<p style="text-indent: -1em; margin-left: 1em;"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">Shares purchased</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><b>&#160;</b></font></td>
<td align="right" valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><b>20</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><b>&#160;&#160;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">&#160;</font></td>
<td align="right" valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">20</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">&#160;&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">&#160;</font></td>
<td align="right" valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">20</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">&#160;&#160;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="text-indent: -1em; margin-left: 1em;"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">Average price per share</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td align="right" valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><b>&#160;&#160;25.03</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><b>&#160;&#160;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">$</font></td>
<td align="right" valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">&#160;&#160;22.98</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">&#160;&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">$</font></td>
<td align="right" valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">&#160;&#160;23.73</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">&#160;&#160;</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<hr style="color: #000000;" align="left" noshade="noshade" size="1" />
<p style="margin-top: 12px; margin-bottom: 0px;" align="justify"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">At June&#160;30, 2012, 23&#160;million shares of our common stock were reserved for future issuance through the Plan.</font></p>
<p style="margin-top: 18px; margin-bottom: 0px;"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><b>Savings Plan</b></font></p>
<p style="margin-top: 12px; margin-bottom: 0px;" align="justify"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">We have a savings plan in the U.S. that qualifies under Section&#160;401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code, and a number of savings plans in international locations. Participating U.S. employees may contribute up to 50% of their salary, but not more than statutory limits. We contribute fifty cents for each dollar a participant contributes in this plan, with a maximum contribution of 3% of a participant&#8217;s earnings. Matching contributions for all plans were $373 million, $282 million, and $275 million in fiscal years 2012, 2011, and 2010, respectively, and were expensed as contributed. Matching contributions are invested proportionate to each participant&#8217;s voluntary contributions in the investment options provided under the plan. Investment options in the U.S. plan include Microsoft common stock, but neither participant nor our matching contributions are required to be invested in Microsoft common stock.</font></p>
</div>
298000000
0
564000000
1410000000
15575000000
<div>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 18px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>Allowance for Doubtful
Accounts</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">The allowance for
doubtful accounts reflects our best estimate of probable losses
inherent in the accounts receivable balance. We determine the
allowance based on known troubled accounts, historical experience,
and other currently available evidence.</font></p>
</div>
4335000000
0
29.44
<div>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 18px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>Property and
Equipment</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Property and equipment is
stated at cost and depreciated using the straight-line method over
the shorter of the estimated useful life of the asset or the lease
term. The estimated useful lives of our property and equipment are
generally as follows: computer software developed or acquired for
internal use, three years; computer equipment, two to three years;
buildings and improvements, five to 15 years; leasehold
improvements, two to 10 years; and furniture and equipment, one to
five years. Land is not depreciated.</font></p>
</div>
<div>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Long-lived assets,
excluding financial instruments and deferred taxes, classified by
the location of the controlling statutory company and with
countries over 10% of the total shown separately, were as
follows:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 12px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="79%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>(In millions)</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="12">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>June&#xA0;30,</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2012</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2011</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2010</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">United States</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>14,081</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">18,498</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">18,716</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Luxembourg</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>6,975</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Other countries</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>3,835</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">2,989</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">2,466</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="4">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Total</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;24,891</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;21,487</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;21,182</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
</table>
</div>
556000000
<div>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="center">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><u>NOTE 2 &#x2014;
EARNINGS PER SHARE</u></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Basic earnings per share
(&#x201C;EPS&#x201D;) is computed based on the weighted average
number of shares of common stock outstanding during the period.
Diluted EPS is computed based on the weighted average number of
shares of common stock plus the effect of dilutive potential common
shares outstanding during the period using the treasury stock
method. Dilutive potential common shares include outstanding stock
options, stock awards, and shared performance stock awards. The
components of basic and diluted EPS are as follows:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 12px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="79%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>(In millions, except earnings per share)</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="12">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Year Ended June&#xA0;30,</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2012</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2011</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2010</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Net income available for common
shareholders (A)</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;16,978</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;23,150</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;18,760</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Weighted average outstanding shares
of common stock (B)</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>8,396</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">8,490</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">8,813</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Dilutive effect of stock-based
awards</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>110</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">103</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">114</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="4">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Common stock and common stock
equivalents (C)</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>8,506</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">8,593</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">8,927</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Earnings Per Share</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Basic (A/B)</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>2.02</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">2.73</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">2.13</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Diluted (A/C)</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>2.00</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">2.69</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">2.10</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="left" size="1" noshade="noshade" />
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">We excluded the following
shares underlying stock-based awards from the calculations of
diluted EPS because their inclusion would have been
anti-dilutive:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 12px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="87%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>(In millions)</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="12">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Year Ended June&#xA0;30,</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2012</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2011</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2010</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Shares excluded from calculations of
diluted EPS</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>1</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">21</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">28</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="left" size="1" noshade="noshade" />
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">In June 2010, we issued
$1.25 billion of zero-coupon debt securities that are convertible
into shares of our common stock if certain conditions are
met.&#xA0;As of June&#xA0;30, 2012, none of these securities had
met price or other conditions that would make them eligible for
conversion and therefore were excluded from the calculation of
basic and diluted EPS. See Note&#xA0;12&#xA0;&#x2013; Debt for
additional information.</font></p>
</div>
0.007
9.41
0.002
0.90
2.00
<div>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>Intangible Assets</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">All of our intangible
assets are subject to amortization and are amortized using the
straight-line method over their estimated period of benefit,
ranging from one to 15 years. We evaluate the recoverability of
intangible assets periodically by taking into account events or
circumstances that may warrant revised estimates of useful lives or
that indicate the asset may be impaired.</font></p>
</div>
481000000
<div>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><i>Recently adopted accounting
guidance</i></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">On July&#xA0;1, 2011, we
adopted guidance issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board
(&#x201C;FASB&#x201D;) on disclosure requirements related to fair
value measurements.&#xA0;The guidance requires the disclosure of
roll-forward activities on purchases, sales, issuances, and
settlements of the assets and liabilities measured using
significant unobservable inputs (Level 3 fair value
measurements).&#xA0;Adoption of this new guidance did not have a
material impact on our financial statements.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">On January&#xA0;1, 2012,
we adopted guidance issued by the FASB on accounting and disclosure
requirements related to fair value measurements.&#xA0;The guidance
limits the highest-and-best-use measure to nonfinancial assets,
permits certain financial assets and liabilities with offsetting
positions in market or counterparty credit risks to be measured at
a net basis, and provides guidance on the applicability of premiums
and discounts.&#xA0;Additionally, the guidance expands the
disclosures on Level 3 inputs by requiring quantitative disclosure
of the unobservable inputs and assumptions, as well as description
of the valuation processes and the sensitivity of the fair value to
changes in unobservable inputs.&#xA0;Adoption of this new guidance
did not have a material impact on our financial
statements.</font></p>
</div>
P10Y
<div>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">The components of the
deferred income tax assets and liabilities were as
follows:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 12px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="88%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>(In millions)</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="8">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>June&#xA0;30,</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2012</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2011</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Deferred Income Tax Assets</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Stock-based compensation
expense</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;882</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;1,079</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Other expense items</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>965</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">1,321</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Unearned revenue</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>571</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">463</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Impaired investments</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>152</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">424</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Loss carryforwards</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>532</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">90</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Other revenue items</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>79</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">69</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="4">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Deferred income tax assets</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>3,181</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">3,446</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Less valuation allowance</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(453</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="4">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Deferred income tax assets, net of
valuation allowance</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>2,728</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">3,446</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="4">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Deferred Income Tax Liabilities</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">International earnings</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(1,072</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(1,266</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Unrealized gain on
investments</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(830</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(904</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Depreciation and
amortization</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(670</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(265</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Other</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(14</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="4">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Deferred income tax
liabilities</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(2,586</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(2,435</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="4">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 3em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Net deferred income tax
assets</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>142</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">1,011</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Reported As</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Current deferred income tax
assets</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>2,035</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">2,467</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Long-term deferred income tax
liabilities</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(1,893</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(1,456</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="4">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 3em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Net deferred income tax
assets</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>142</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">1,011</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
</table>
</div>
-493000000
174000000
-364000000
64000000
<div>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 18px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>Research and
Development</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Research and development
expenses include payroll, employee benefits, stock-based
compensation expense, and other headcount-related expenses
associated with product development. Research and development
expenses also include third-party development and programming
costs, localization costs incurred to translate software for
international markets, and the amortization of purchased software
code and services content. Such costs related to software
development are included in research and development expense until
the point that technological feasibility is reached, which for our
software products, is generally shortly before the products are
released to manufacturing. Once technological feasibility is
reached, such costs are capitalized and amortized to cost of
revenue over the estimated lives of the products.</font></p>
</div>
<div>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="center">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><u>NOTE 6 &#x2014; FAIR
VALUE MEASUREMENTS</u></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>Assets and Liabilities Measured at
Fair Value on a Recurring Basis</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">The following tables
present the fair value of our financial instruments that are
measured at fair value on a recurring basis:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 12px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="51%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>(In millions)</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Level 1</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Level 2</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Level&#xA0;3</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Gross</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Fair</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Value</b></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Netting&#xA0;<sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(a)</sup></b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Net Fair<br />
Value</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="24">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>June&#xA0;30, 2012</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Assets</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Mutual funds</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>820</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>820</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>820</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Commercial paper</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>96</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>96</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>96</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Certificates of deposit</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>744</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>744</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>744</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">U.S. government and agency
securities</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>42,291</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>5,019</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>47,310</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>47,310</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Foreign government bonds</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>31</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>1,703</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>1,734</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>1,734</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Mortgage-backed securities</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>1,892</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>1,892</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>1,892</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Corporate notes and bonds</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>7,839</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>9</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>7,848</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>7,848</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Municipal securities</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>416</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>416</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>416</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Common and preferred stock</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>7,539</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>877</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>5</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>8,421</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>8,421</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Derivatives</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>16</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>467</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>483</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(141</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>342</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="4">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Total</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;50,697</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;19,053</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;14</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;69,764</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;(141</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;69,623</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Liabilities</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Derivatives and other</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>10</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>145</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>155</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(139</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>16</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="24">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="16"></td>
<td height="16" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="16" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="16" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="16" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="16" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="16" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>(In millions)</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Level 1</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Level 2</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Level&#xA0;3</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font><br />
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Gross</b></font><br />
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Fair</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Value</b></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font><br />
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Netting</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>&#xA0;<sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(a)</sup>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>&#xA0;<br />
&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Net Fair<br />
Value</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;<br />
&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="24">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>June&#xA0;30, 2011</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Assets</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Mutual funds</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">1,752</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">1,752</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">1,752</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Commercial paper</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">639</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">639</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">639</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Certificates of deposit</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">598</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">598</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">598</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">U.S. government and agency
securities</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">23,591</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">10,175</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">33,766</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">33,766</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Foreign government bonds</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">303</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">367</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">670</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">670</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Mortgage-backed securities</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">2,428</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">2,428</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">2,428</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Corporate notes and bonds</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">10,600</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">58</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">10,658</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">10,658</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Municipal securities</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">454</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">454</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">454</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Common and preferred stock</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">9,821</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">55</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">5</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">9,881</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">9,881</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Derivatives</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">8</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">388</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">20</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">416</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(204</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">212</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="4">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Total</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;35,475</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;25,704</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;83</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;61,262</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;(204</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;61,058</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Liabilities</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Derivatives and other</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">109</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">257</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">366</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(203</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">163</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="left" size="1" noshade="noshade" />
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 6px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td valign="top" width="4%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(a)</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left">
<p align="justify"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><i>These amounts represent the impact of netting derivative
assets and derivative liabilities when a legally enforceable master
netting agreement exists and fair value adjustments related to our
own credit risk and counterparty credit risk.</i></font></p>
</td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 1px">
&#xA0;</p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">The following table
reconciles the total Net Fair Value of assets above to the balance
sheet presentation of these same assets in Note 4 &#x2013;
Investments.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 12px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="88%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>(In millions)</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="8">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>June&#xA0;30,</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2012</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2011</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Net fair value of assets measured at
fair value on a recurring basis</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;69,623</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;61,058</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Cash</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>2,019</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">1,648</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Common and preferred stock measured
at fair value on a nonrecurring basis</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>313</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">334</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Other investments measured at fair
value on a nonrecurring basis</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>1,043</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">650</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Less derivative assets classified as
other current assets</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(185</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(54</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Other</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>3</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">1</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="4">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Recorded basis of investment
components</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>72,816</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">63,637</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 18px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>Changes in Financial Instruments
Measured at Level 3 Fair Value on a Recurring Basis</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">The following tables
present the changes during the periods presented in our Level 3
financial instruments that are measured at fair value on a
recurring basis. The majority of these instruments consist of
investment securities classified as available-for-sale with changes
in fair value included in OCI.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 12px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="80%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="2%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="2%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="2%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="2%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>(In millions)</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Corporate</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Notes&#xA0;and</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Bonds</b></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Common</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>and</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Preferred</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Stock</b></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Derivative</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Assets</b></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Total</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="16">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Year Ended June&#xA0;30, 2012</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Balance, beginning of
period</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;58</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;5</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;20</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;83</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Total realized and unrealized
losses:</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Included in other income
(expense)</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(5</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(5</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Included in other comprehensive
income</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(21</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(21</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Conversions of Level 3 instruments to
Level 1 instruments</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(28</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(15</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(43</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="4">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Balance, end of period</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>9</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>5</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>14</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Change in unrealized gains included
in other income (expense) related to assets held as of
June&#xA0;30, 2012</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="16">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="16"></td>
<td height="16" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="16" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="16" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="16" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>(In millions)</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Corporate<br />
Notes&#xA0;and<br />
Bonds</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Common<br />
and<br />
Preferred<br />
Stock</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Derivative<br />
Assets</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Total</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="16">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Year Ended June&#xA0;30, 2011</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Balance, beginning of
period</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;167</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;5</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;9</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;181</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Total realized and unrealized gains
(losses):</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Included in other income
(expense)</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">39</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">11</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">50</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Included in other comprehensive
income</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(63</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(63</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Purchases, issuances and
settlements</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(85</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(85</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="4">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Balance, end of period</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">58</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">5</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">20</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">83</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Change in unrealized gains included
in other income (expense) related to assets held as of
June&#xA0;30, 2011</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">6</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">11</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">17</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="left" size="1" noshade="noshade" />
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 18px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>Financial Assets and Liabilities
Measured at Fair Value on a Nonrecurring Basis</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">During fiscal year 2012
and 2011, we did not record any material other-than-temporary
impairments on financial assets required to be measured at fair
value on a nonrecurring basis.</font></p>
</div>
292000000
<div>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Significant reconciling
items were as follows:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 12px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="79%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="4%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="4%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="4%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>(In millions)</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="12">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Year Ended June&#xA0;30,</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2012</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2011</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2010</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Corporate-level
activity&#xA0;</font><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(a)</sup></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(5,090</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(4,597</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(4,136</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Revenue reconciling
amounts</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(486</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">381</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">314</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Other</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>41</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(24</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">110</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="4">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Total</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;(5,535)</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;(4,240)</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;(3,712)</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 6px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td valign="top" width="4%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(a)</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left">
<p align="justify"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><i>Corporate-level activity excludes revenue reconciling
amounts presented separately in that line item.</i></font></p>
</td>
</tr>
</table>
</div>
0.03
0.80
255000000
5029000000
13000000
<div>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 18px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="center">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><u>NOTE 15 &#x2014; OTHER
LONG-TERM LIABILITIES</u></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 12px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="88%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>(In millions)</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="8">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>June&#xA0;30,</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2012</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2011</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Tax contingencies and other tax
liabilities</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;7,634</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;7,381</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Legal contingencies</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>220</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">276</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Other</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>354</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">415</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="4">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Total</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>8,208</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">8,072</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
</table>
</div>
20667000000
<div>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 18px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="center">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><u>NOTE 11 &#x2014;
INTANGIBLE ASSETS</u></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">The components of
intangible assets, all of which are finite-lived, were as
follows:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 12px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="40%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="4%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="4%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="4%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="4%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="4%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="4%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>(In millions)</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Gross<br />
Carrying<br />
Amount</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Accumulated<br />
Amortization</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Net&#xA0;Carrying<br />
Amount</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Gross<br />
Carrying<br />
Amount</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Accumulated<br />
Amortization</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Net&#xA0;Carrying<br />
Amount</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="24">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Year Ended June&#xA0;30,</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2012</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2011</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Technology-based&#xA0;</font><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(a)</sup></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>3,550</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(1,899</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>1,651</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">2,356</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(1,831</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">525</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Marketing-related</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>1,325</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(136</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>1,189</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">113</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(98</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">15</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Contract-based</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>824</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(644</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>180</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">1,068</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(966</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">102</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Customer-related</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>408</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(258</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>150</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">326</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(224</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">102</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="4">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Total</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;6,107</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;(2,937</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;3,170</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;3,863</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;(3,119</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;744</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 6px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td valign="top" width="4%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(a)</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left">
<p align="justify"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><i>Technology-based intangible assets included $177 million and
$179 million as of June&#xA0;30, 2012 and 2011, respectively, of
net carrying amount of software to be sold, leased, or otherwise
marketed.</i></font></p>
</td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">We estimate that we have
no significant residual value related to our intangible assets. No
material impairments of intangible assets were identified during
any of the periods presented.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">The components of
intangible assets acquired during the periods presented were as
follows:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 12px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="81%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="2%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="2%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="2%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="2%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>(In millions)</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Amount</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Weighted</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Average&#xA0;Life</b></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Amount</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Weighted</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Average&#xA0;Life</b></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="16">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Year Ended June&#xA0;30,</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2012</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2011</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Technology-based</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>1,548</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>7&#xA0;years</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">119</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">3&#xA0;years</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Marketing-related</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>1,249</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>15&#xA0;years</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">1</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">7 years</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Contract-based</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>115</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>7&#xA0;years</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Customer-related</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>114</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>5&#xA0;years</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">2</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">4&#xA0;years</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="4">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Total</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;3,026</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>10&#xA0;years</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;122</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">3&#xA0;years</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Intangible assets
amortization expense was $558 million, $537 million, and $707
million for fiscal years 2012, 2011, and 2010, respectively.
Amortization of capitalized software was $117 million, $114
million, and $97 million for fiscal years 2012, 2011, and 2010,
respectively.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 1px">
&#xA0;</p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">The following table
outlines the estimated future amortization expense related to
intangible assets held at June&#xA0;30, 2012:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 12px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="91%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="4%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>(In millions)</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="4">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Year Ending June&#xA0;30,</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">2013</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">597</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">2014</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">432</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">2015</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">367</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">2016</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">304</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">2017</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">234</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Thereafter</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">1,236</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="4">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Total</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;3,170</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
</table>
</div>
<div>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">The components of the
provision for income taxes were as follows:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 12px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="79%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="12"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>(In millions)</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="12">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Year Ended June&#xA0;30,</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2012</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2011</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2010</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Current Taxes</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">U.S. federal</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;2,235</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;3,108</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;4,415</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">U.S. state and local</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>153</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">209</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">357</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">International</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>1,947</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">1,602</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">1,701</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="4">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Current taxes</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>4,335</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">4,919</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">6,473</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Deferred Taxes</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Deferred taxes</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>954</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">2</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(220</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="4">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 3em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Provision for income taxes</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>5,289</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">4,921</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">6,253</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
</table>
</div>
24000000
2235000000
4000000000
110000000
0.238
<div>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Segment revenue and
operating income (loss) were as follows during the periods
presented:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 12px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="79%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>(In millions)</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="12">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Year Ended June&#xA0;30,</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2012</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2011</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2010</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Revenue</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Windows&#xA0;&amp; Windows Live
Division</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>18,818</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">18,787</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">18,789</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Server and Tools</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>18,696</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">16,691</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">15,121</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Online Services Division</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>2,934</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">2,680</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">2,345</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Microsoft Business
Division</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>23,963</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">22,314</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">19,525</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Entertainment and Devices
Division</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>9,585</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">8,896</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">6,135</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Unallocated and other</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(273</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">575</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">569</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="4">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Consolidated</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;73,723</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;69,943</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;62,484</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 12px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="79%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>(In millions)</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="12">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Year Ended June&#xA0;30,</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2012</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2011</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2010</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Operating Income (Loss)</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Windows&#xA0;&amp; Windows Live
Division</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>11,908</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">11,971</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">12,193</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Server and Tools</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>7,459</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">6,332</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">5,378</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Online Services Division</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(8,122</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(2,649</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(2,395</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Microsoft Business
Division</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>15,688</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">14,453</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">12,109</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Entertainment and Devices
Division</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>365</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">1,294</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">525</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Reconciling amounts</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(5,535</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(4,240</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(3,712</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="4">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Consolidated</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;21,763</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;27,161</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;24,098</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
</table>
</div>
34877000000
<div>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 18px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>Cost of Revenue</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Cost of revenue includes;
manufacturing and distribution costs for products sold and programs
licensed; operating costs related to product support service
centers and product distribution centers; costs incurred to include
software on PCs sold by OEMs, to drive traffic to our websites, and
to acquire online advertising space (&#x201C;traffic acquisition
costs&#x201D;); costs incurred to support and maintain
Internet-based products and services, including royalties; warranty
costs; inventory valuation adjustments; costs associated with the
delivery of consulting services; and the amortization of
capitalized research and development costs. Capitalized research
and development costs are amortized over the estimated lives of the
products.</font></p>
</div>
<div>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Stock-based compensation
expense and related income tax benefits were as follows:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 12px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="79%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>(In millions)</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="12">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Year Ended June&#xA0;30,</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2012</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2011</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2010</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Stock-based compensation
expense</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;2,244</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;2,166</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;1,891</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Income tax benefits related to
stock-based compensation</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>785</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">758</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">662</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
</div>
<div>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Changes in the carrying
amount of goodwill by segment were as follows:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 12px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="38%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Balance&#xA0;as</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>of&#xA0;June&#xA0;30,</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2010</b></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Acquisitions</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Other</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Balance&#xA0;as</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>of&#xA0;June&#xA0;30,</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2011</b></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Acquisitions</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Other</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Balance&#xA0;as</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>of&#xA0;June&#xA0;30,</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2012</b></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="28">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>(In millions)</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Windows&#xA0;&amp; Windows Live
Division</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">77</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">12</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">89</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>89</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Server and Tools</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">1,118</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">13</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">8</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">1,139</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>7</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(2</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>1,144</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Online Services Division</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">6,373</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">6,373</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>54</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(6,204</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>223</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Microsoft Business
Division</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">4,024</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">4</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">139</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">4,167</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>2,843</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(117</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>6,893</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Entertainment and Devices
Division</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">802</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">30</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(19</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">813</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>4,294</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(4</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>5,103</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="4">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Total</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;12,394</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;47</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;140</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;12,581</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;7,198</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;(6,327)</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;13,452</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
</table>
</div>
31626000000
-24786000000
800000000
19000000
-165000000
6327000000
36104000000
<div>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 18px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>Product Warranty</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">We provide for the
estimated costs of fulfilling our obligations under hardware and
software warranties at the time the related revenue is recognized.
For hardware warranties, we estimate the costs based on historical
and projected product failure rates, historical and projected
repair costs, and knowledge of specific product failures (if any).
The specific hardware warranty terms and conditions vary depending
upon the product sold and the country in which we do business, but
generally include parts and labor over a period generally ranging
from 90&#xA0;days to three years. For software warranties, we
estimate the costs to provide bug fixes, such as security patches,
over the estimated life of the software. We regularly reevaluate
our estimates to assess the adequacy of the recorded warranty
liabilities and adjust the amounts as necessary.</font></p>
</div>
117000000
-239000000
236000000
22.20
<div>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Shares of common stock
outstanding were as follows:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 12px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="82%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="2%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="2%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="2%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>(In millions)</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="12">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Year Ended June&#xA0;30,</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2012</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2011</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2010</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Balance, beginning of year</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>8,376</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">8,668</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">8,908</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Issued</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>147</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">155</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">140</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Repurchased</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(142</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(447</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(380</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="4">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Balance, end of year</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>8,381</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">8,376</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">8,668</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
</table>
</div>
<div>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">The components of
intangible assets, all of which are finite-lived, were as
follows:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 12px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="40%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="4%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="4%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="4%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="4%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="4%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="4%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>(In millions)</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Gross<br />
Carrying<br />
Amount</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Accumulated<br />
Amortization</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Net&#xA0;Carrying<br />
Amount</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Gross<br />
Carrying<br />
Amount</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Accumulated<br />
Amortization</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Net&#xA0;Carrying<br />
Amount</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="24">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Year Ended June&#xA0;30,</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2012</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2011</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Technology-based&#xA0;</font><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(a)</sup></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>3,550</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(1,899</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>1,651</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">2,356</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(1,831</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">525</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Marketing-related</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>1,325</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(136</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>1,189</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">113</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(98</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">15</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Contract-based</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>824</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(644</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>180</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">1,068</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(966</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">102</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Customer-related</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>408</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(258</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>150</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">326</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(224</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">102</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="4">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Total</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;6,107</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;(2,937</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;3,170</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;3,863</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;(3,119</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;744</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 6px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td valign="top" width="4%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(a)</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left">
<p align="justify"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><i>Technology-based intangible assets included $177 million and
$179 million as of June&#xA0;30, 2012 and 2011, respectively, of
net carrying amount of software to be sold, leased, or otherwise
marketed.</i></font></p>
</td>
</tr>
</table>
</div>
<div>
<p style="margin-top: 18px; margin-bottom: 0px;" align="center"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><u>NOTE 9 &#8212; BUSINESS COMBINATIONS</u></font></p>
<p style="margin-top: 12px; margin-bottom: 0px;"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><b>Skype</b></font></p>
<p style="margin-top: 12px; margin-bottom: 0px;" align="justify"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">On October&#160;13, 2011, we acquired all of the issued and outstanding shares of Skype Global S.&#225; r.l. (&#8220;Skype&#8221;), a leading global provider of software applications and related Internet communications products based in Luxembourg, for $8.6 billion, primarily in cash. The major classes of assets and liabilities to which we allocated the purchase price were goodwill of $7.1 billion, identifiable intangible assets of $1.6 billion, and unearned revenue of $222 million. The goodwill recognized in connection with the acquisition is primarily attributable to our expectation of extending Skype&#8217;s brand and the reach of its networked platform, while enhancing Microsoft&#8217;s existing portfolio of real-time communications products and services. We assigned the goodwill to the following segments: $4.2 billion to Entertainment and Devices Division, $2.8 billion to Microsoft Business Division, and $54 million to Online Services Division. Skype was consolidated into our results of operations starting October&#160;13, 2011, the acquisition date.</font></p>
<p style="margin-top: 12px; margin-bottom: 0px;" align="justify"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">Following are the details of the purchase price allocated to the intangible assets acquired:</font></p>
<p style="font-size: 12px; margin-top: 0px; margin-bottom: 0px;">&#160;</p>
<table style="border-collapse: collapse;" width="100%" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="87%">&#160;</td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%">&#160;</td>
<td>&#160;</td>
<td>&#160;</td>
<td>&#160;</td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%">&#160;</td>
<td>&#160;</td>
<td>&#160;</td>
<td>&#160;</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="1"><b>(In millions)</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;&#160;</font></td>
<td colspan="2" valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td colspan="2" align="right" valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="1"><b>Weighted<br /> Average&#160;Life</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td colspan="8" valign="bottom"><hr style="color: #000000;" noshade="noshade" size="1" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><hr style="color: #ffffff;" align="left" noshade="noshade" size="1" width="0" /></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5">&#160;</td>
<td colspan="4" height="5">&#160;</td>
<td colspan="4" height="5">&#160;</td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#cceeff">
<td valign="top">
<p style="text-indent: -1em; margin-left: 1em;"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">Marketing-related (trade names)</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">$</font></td>
<td align="right" valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">&#160;&#160;1,249</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">&#160;&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">&#160;</font></td>
<td align="right" valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">15&#160;years</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">&#160;&#160;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="text-indent: -1em; margin-left: 1em;"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">Technology-based</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">&#160;</font></td>
<td align="right" valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">275</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">&#160;&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">&#160;</font></td>
<td align="right" valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">5 years</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">&#160;&#160;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#cceeff">
<td valign="top">
<p style="text-indent: -1em; margin-left: 1em;"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">Customer-related</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">&#160;</font></td>
<td align="right" valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">114</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">&#160;&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">&#160;</font></td>
<td align="right" valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">5 years</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">&#160;&#160;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="text-indent: -1em; margin-left: 1em;"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">Contract-based</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">&#160;</font></td>
<td align="right" valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">10</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">&#160;&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">&#160;</font></td>
<td align="right" valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">4 years</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">&#160;&#160;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td colspan="4" valign="bottom"><hr style="color: #000000;" noshade="noshade" size="1" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><hr style="color: #ffffff;" align="left" noshade="noshade" size="1" width="0" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#cceeff">
<td valign="top">
<p style="text-indent: -1em; margin-left: 2em;"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">Total</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">$</font></td>
<td align="right" valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">1,648</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">&#160;&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">&#160;</font></td>
<td align="right" valign="bottom"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">13 years</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">&#160;&#160;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><hr style="color: #595959;" align="right" noshade="noshade" size="3" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><hr style="color: #595959;" noshade="noshade" size="3" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><hr style="color: #ffffff;" align="left" noshade="noshade" size="3" width="0" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="font-size: 1px; margin-top: 18px; margin-bottom: 0px;">&#160;</p>
<p style="margin-top: 0px; margin-bottom: 0px;"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><b>Other</b></font></p>
<p style="margin-top: 12px; margin-bottom: 0px;" align="justify"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">During fiscal year 2012, we completed an additional four acquisitions for total consideration of $87 million, substantially all of which was paid in cash. During fiscal year 2011, we acquired three entities for total consideration of $75 million, substantially all of which was paid in cash. During fiscal year 2010, we acquired five entities for total consideration of $267 million, substantially all of which was paid in cash. During fiscal year 2010, we also sold three entities for total consideration of $600 million, including Razorfish in the second quarter of fiscal year 2010. These entities have been included in or removed from our consolidated results of operations since their acquisition or sale dates, respectively.</font></p>
<p style="margin-top: 12px; margin-bottom: 0px;" align="justify"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">Pro forma results of operations have not been presented because the effects of the business combinations described in this Note, individually and in aggregate, were not material to our consolidated results of operations.</font></p>
</div>
2305000000
<div>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">The components of
inventories were as follows:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 12px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="88%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="8"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>(In millions)</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="8">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>June&#xA0;30,</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2012</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2011</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Raw materials</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>210</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">232</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Work in process</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>96</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">56</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Finished goods</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>831</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">1,084</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="4">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Total</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;1,137</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;1,372</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
</table>
</div>
-2672000000
33347000000
<div>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">The components of
accumulated other comprehensive income were as follows:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 12px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="79%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>(In millions)</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="12">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>June&#xA0;30,</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2012</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2011</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2010</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Net unrealized gains (losses) on
derivatives</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>92</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(163</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">464</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Net unrealized gains on
investments</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>1,431</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">1,821</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">767</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Translation adjustments and
other</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(101</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">205</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(176</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="4">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Accumulated other comprehensive
income</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;1,422</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;1,863</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;1,055</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
</table>
</div>
4569000000
<div>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Revenue, classified by
the major geographic areas in which our customers are located, was
as follows:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 12px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="79%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>(In millions)</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="12">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Year Ended June&#xA0;30,</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2012</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2011</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2010</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">United
States&#xA0;</font><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(a)</sup></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>38,846</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">38,008</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">36,173</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Other countries</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>34,877</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">31,935</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">26,311</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="4">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Total</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;73,723</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;69,943</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;62,484</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 6px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td valign="top" width="4%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(a)</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left">
<p align="justify"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><i>Includes billings to OEMs and certain multinational
organizations because of the nature of these businesses and the
impracticability of determining the geographic source of the
revenue.</i></font></p>
</td>
</tr>
</table>
</div>
6385000000
21000000
<div>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">The aggregate changes in
the balance of unrecognized tax benefits were as
follows:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 12px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="79%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>(In millions)</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="12">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Year Ended June&#xA0;30,</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2012</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2011</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2010</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Balance, beginning of year</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;6,935</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;6,542</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;5,403</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Decreases related to
settlements</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(16</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(632</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(57</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Increases for tax positions related
to the current year</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>481</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">739</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">1,012</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Increases for tax positions related
to prior years</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>118</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">405</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">364</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Decreases for tax positions related
to prior years</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(292</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(119</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(166</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Decreases due to lapsed statutes of
limitations</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(24</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(14</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="4">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Balance, end of year</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>7,202</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">6,935</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">6,542</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
</table>
</div>
1600000000
<div>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 18px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><i>Recent accounting guidance not yet
adopted</i></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">In December 2011, the
FASB issued guidance enhancing disclosure requirements about the
nature of an entity&#x2019;s right to offset and related
arrangements associated with its financial instruments and
derivative instruments. The new guidance requires the disclosure of
the gross amounts subject to rights of set-off, amounts offset in
accordance with the accounting standards followed, and the related
net exposure. The new guidance will be effective for us beginning
July&#xA0;1, 2013. Other than requiring additional disclosures, we
do not anticipate material impacts on our financial statements upon
adoption.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">In September 2011, the
FASB issued guidance on testing goodwill for impairment. The new
guidance provides an entity the option to first perform a
qualitative assessment to determine whether it is more likely than
not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its
carrying amount. If an entity determines that this is the case, it
is required to perform the currently prescribed two-step goodwill
impairment test to identify potential goodwill impairment and
measure the amount of goodwill impairment loss to be recognized for
that reporting unit (if any). If an entity determines that the fair
value of a reporting unit is greater than its carrying amount, the
two-step goodwill impairment test is not required. The new guidance
will be effective for us beginning July&#xA0;1, 2012.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">In June 2011, the FASB
issued guidance on presentation of comprehensive income.&#xA0;The
new guidance eliminates the current option to report other
comprehensive income and its components in the statement of changes
in stockholders&#x2019; equity.&#xA0;Instead, an entity will be
required to present either a continuous statement of net income and
other comprehensive income or in two separate but consecutive
statements.&#xA0;This portion of the guidance will be effective for
us beginning July&#xA0;1, 2012 and will require financial statement
presentation changes only. The new guidance also required entities
to present reclassification adjustments out of accumulated other
comprehensive income by component in both the statement in which
net income is presented and the statement in which other
comprehensive income is presented. However, in December 2011, the
FASB issued guidance which indefinitely defers the guidance related
to the presentation of reclassification adjustments.</font></p>
</div>
<div>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 18px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="center">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><u>NOTE 19 &#x2014; OTHER
COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS)</u></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">The activity in other
comprehensive income (loss) and related income tax effects were as
follows:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 12px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="80%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>(In millions)</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="12">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Year Ended June&#xA0;30,</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2012</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2011</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2010</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Net Unrealized Gains (Losses) on Derivatives</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Unrealized gains (losses), net of tax
effects of <b>$127</b>, $(340), and $188</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;236</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(632</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;349</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Reclassification adjustment for
losses (gains) included in net income, net of tax effects of
<b>$10</b>, $2, and $(173)</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>19</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">5</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(322</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="4">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Net unrealized gains (losses) on
derivatives</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>255</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(627</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">27</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="4">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Net Unrealized Gains (Losses) on Investments</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Unrealized gains (losses), net of tax
effects of <b>$(93)</b>, $726, and $263</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(172</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;1,349</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">488</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Reclassification adjustment for gains
included in net income, net of tax effects of <b>$(117)</b>,
$(159), and $(120)</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(218</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(295</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(223</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="4">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Net unrealized gains (losses) on
investments</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(390</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">1,054</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">265</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="4">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Translation adjustments and other,
net of tax effects of <b>$(165)</b>, $205 and $(103)</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(306</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">381</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(206</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="4">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Other comprehensive income
(loss)</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(441</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">808</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">86</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">The components of
accumulated other comprehensive income were as follows:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 12px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="79%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>(In millions)</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="12">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>June&#xA0;30,</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2012</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2011</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2010</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Net unrealized gains (losses) on
derivatives</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>92</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(163</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">464</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Net unrealized gains on
investments</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>1,431</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">1,821</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">767</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Translation adjustments and
other</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(101</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">205</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(176</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="4">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Accumulated other comprehensive
income</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;1,422</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;1,863</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;1,055</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
</table>
</div>
<div>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">The components of other
income (expense) were as follows:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 12px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="79%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="5%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="5%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="5%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>(In millions)</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="12">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Year Ended June&#xA0;30,</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2012</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2011</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2010</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Dividends and interest
income</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>800</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">900</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">843</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Interest expense</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;(380</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;(295</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;(151</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Net recognized gains on
investments</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>564</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">439</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">348</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Net losses on derivatives</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(364</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(77</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(140</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Net gains (losses) on foreign
currency remeasurements</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(117</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(26</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">1</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Other</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>1</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(31</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">14</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="4">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Total</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>504</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">910</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">915</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
</table>
</div>
<div>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 18px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="center">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><u>NOTE 22 &#x2014;
SUBSEQUENT EVENT</u></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>Acquisition of
Yammer</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">On July&#xA0;18, 2012, we
acquired Yammer, Inc. (&#x201C;Yammer&#x201D;), a leading provider of
enterprise social networks, for $1.2 billion in cash. Yammer will
continue to develop its standalone service and will add enterprise
social networking services to Microsoft&#x2019;s portfolio of
complementary cloud-based services.</font></p>
</div>
8506000000
<div>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 18px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="center">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><u>NOTE 3 &#x2014; OTHER
INCOME (EXPENSE)</u></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">The components of other
income (expense) were as follows:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 12px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="79%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="5%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="5%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="5%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>(In millions)</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="12">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Year Ended June&#xA0;30,</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2012</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2011</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2010</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Dividends and interest
income</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>800</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">900</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">843</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Interest expense</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;(380</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;(295</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;(151</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Net recognized gains on
investments</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>564</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">439</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">348</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Net losses on derivatives</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(364</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(77</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(140</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Net gains (losses) on foreign
currency remeasurements</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(117</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(26</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">1</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Other</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>1</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(31</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">14</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="4">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Total</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>504</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">910</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">915</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 1px">
&#xA0;</p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Following are details of
net recognized gains on investments during the periods
reported:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 12px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="80%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>(In millions)</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="12">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Year Ended June&#xA0;30,</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2012</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2011</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2010</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Other-than-temporary impairments of
investments</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(298</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(80</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(69</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Realized gains from sales of
available-for-sale securities</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;1,418</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">734</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">605</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Realized losses from sales of
available-for-sale securities</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(556</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(215</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(188</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="4">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Total</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>564</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;439</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;348</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
</table>
</div>
<div>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Employee stock options
activity during 2012 was as follows:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 12px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="82%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="2%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="2%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="2%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="2%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Shares</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Weighted</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Average</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Exercise&#xA0;Price</b></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Weighted</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Average</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Remaining</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Contractual</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Term</b></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Aggregate</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Intrinsic</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Value</b></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="16">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>(In&#xA0;millions)</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>(Years)</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>(In&#xA0;millions)</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Balance, July&#xA0;1, 2011</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>93</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>23.21</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Granted</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>6</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>9.41</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Exercised</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(64</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;22.20</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Canceled</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(13</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>29.44</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="4">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Balance, June&#xA0;30,
2012</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>22</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>18.69</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>2.15</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;264</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Exercisable, June&#xA0;30,
2012</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>18</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>20.77</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0.83</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>178</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
</table>
</div>
20000000
<div>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 18px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>Goodwill</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Goodwill is tested for
impairment at the reporting unit level (operating segment or one
level below an operating segment) on an annual basis (May 1 for us)
and between annual tests if an event occurs or circumstances change
that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a
reporting unit below its carrying value.</font></p>
</div>
73723000000
1156000000
-306000000
22267000000
13857000000
-441000000
2.02
<div>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Following are details of
net recognized gains on investments during the periods
reported:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 12px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="80%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>(In millions)</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="12">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Year Ended June&#xA0;30,</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2012</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2011</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2010</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Other-than-temporary impairments of
investments</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(298</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(80</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(69</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Realized gains from sales of
available-for-sale securities</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;1,418</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">734</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">605</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Realized losses from sales of
available-for-sale securities</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(556</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(215</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(188</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="4">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Total</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>564</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;439</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;348</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
</table>
</div>
9811000000
-9408000000
-117000000
<div>
<p style="margin-top: 18px; margin-bottom: 0px;" align="center"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><u>NOTE 17 &#8212; CONTINGENCIES</u></font></p>
<p style="margin-top: 12px; margin-bottom: 0px;"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><b>Antitrust, Unfair Competition, and Overcharge Class Actions</b></font></p>
<p style="margin-top: 12px; margin-bottom: 0px;" align="justify"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">A large number of antitrust and unfair competition class action lawsuits were filed against us in various state, federal, and Canadian courts on behalf of various classes of direct and indirect purchasers of our PC operating system and certain other software products between 1999 and 2005. We obtained dismissals or reached settlements of all claims made in the United States.</font></p>
<p style="margin-top: 12px; margin-bottom: 0px;" align="justify"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">All settlements in the United States have received final court approval. Under the settlements, generally class members can obtain vouchers that entitle them to be reimbursed for purchases of a wide variety of platform-neutral computer hardware and software. The total value of vouchers that we may issue varies by state. We will make available to certain schools a percentage of those vouchers that are not issued or claimed (one-half to two-thirds depending on the state). The total value of vouchers we ultimately issue will depend on the number of class members who make claims and are issued vouchers. The maximum value of vouchers to be issued is approximately $2.7 billion. The actual costs of these settlements will be less than that maximum amount, depending on the number of class members and schools that are issued and redeem vouchers. We estimate the total cost to resolve all of the state overcharge class action cases will range between $1.9 billion and $2.0 billion. At June&#160;30, 2012, we have recorded a liability related to these claims of approximately $500 million, which reflects our estimated exposure of $1.9 billion less payments made to date of approximately $1.4 billion mostly for vouchers, legal fees, and administrative expenses.</font></p>
<p style="font-size: 1px; margin-top: 12px; margin-bottom: 0px;">&#160;</p>
<p style="margin-top: 12px; margin-bottom: 0px;" align="justify"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">The three cases pending in British Columbia, Ontario, and Quebec, Canada have not been settled. In March 2010, the court in the British Columbia case certified it as a class action. In April&#160;2011, the British Columbia Court of Appeal reversed the class certification ruling and dismissed the case, holding that indirect purchasers do not have a claim. The plaintiffs have appealed to the Canadian Supreme Court, which will be heard in the fall of 2012. The other two actions have been stayed.</font></p>
<p style="margin-top: 18px; margin-bottom: 0px;"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><b>Other Antitrust Litigation and Claims</b></font></p>
<p style="margin-top: 12px; margin-bottom: 0px;" align="justify"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">In November 2004, Novell, Inc. (&#8220;Novell&#8221;) filed a complaint in U.S. District Court for the District of Utah (later transferred to federal court in Maryland), asserting antitrust and unfair competition claims against us related to Novell&#8217;s ownership of WordPerfect and other productivity applications during the period between June 1994 and March 1996. In June 2005, the trial court granted our motion to dismiss four of six claims of the complaint. In March&#160;2010, the trial court granted summary judgment in favor of Microsoft as to all remaining claims. The court of appeals reversed that ruling as to one claim. Trial of that claim took place from October to December 2011 and resulted in a mistrial because the jury was unable to reach a verdict. In July 2012, the trial court granted Microsoft&#8217;s motion for judgment as a matter of law. Novell may appeal this decision.</font></p>
<p style="margin-top: 18px; margin-bottom: 0px;"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><b>Government Competition Law Matters</b></font></p>
<p style="margin-top: 12px; margin-bottom: 0px;" align="justify"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">In December 2009, the European Commission adopted a decision that rendered legally binding commitments offered by Microsoft to address the Commission&#8217;s concerns about the inclusion of Web browsing software in Windows.&#160;Among other things, Microsoft committed to display a &#8220;Browser Choice Screen&#8221; on Windows-based PCs in Europe where Internet Explorer is set as the default browser. Due to a technical error, we failed to deliver the requisite software to enable that display to PCs that came preinstalled with a version of Windows 7 called Windows 7 Service Pack 1. We did deliver the requisite software to PCs running the original version of Windows 7 and earlier editions of Windows. Following notification by the Commission of reports that some PCs were not receiving the update, we promptly fixed the error and advised the Commission of what we had discovered. PCs that come preinstalled with Windows 7 Service Pack are now receiving the Browser Choice Screen software, as intended.&#160;On July&#160;17, 2012, the Commission announced that it had opened proceedings to investigate whether Microsoft had failed to comply with this commitment. The Commission stated that if a company is found to have breached a legally binding commitment, the company may be fined up to 10% of its worldwide annual revenue.</font></p>
<p style="margin-top: 18px; margin-bottom: 0px;"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><b>Patent and Intellectual Property Claims</b></font></font></p>
<p style="margin-top: 12px; margin-bottom: 0px;"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><i>Motorola Litigation</i></font></font></p>
<p style="margin-top: 12px; margin-bottom: 0px;" align="justify"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">In October 2010, Microsoft filed patent infringement complaints against Motorola Mobility (&#8220;Motorola&#8221;) with the International Trade Commission (&#8220;ITC&#8221;) and in U.S. District Court in Seattle for infringement of nine Microsoft patents by Motorola&#8217;s Android devices. Since then, Microsoft and Motorola have filed additional claims against each other in the ITC, in federal district courts in Seattle, Wisconsin, Florida, and California, and in courts in Germany and the United Kingdom. In April 2012, following complaints by Microsoft and Apple, the European Union&#8217;s competition office opened two antitrust investigations against Motorola to determine whether it has abused certain of its standard essential patents to distort competition in breach of European Union antitrust rules. In June 2012, we received a request for information from the U.S. Federal Trade Commission (&#8220;FTC&#8221;) apparently related to an FTC investigation into whether Motorola&#8217;s conduct violates U.S. law. The nature of the claims asserted and status of individual matters are summarized below.</font></font></p>
<p style="margin-top: 18px; margin-bottom: 0px;"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><u>International Trade Commission</u></font></font></p>
<p style="margin-top: 12px; margin-bottom: 0px;" align="justify"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">The hearing in Microsoft&#8217;s ITC case against Motorola took place in August 2011 on seven of the nine patents originally asserted in the complaint. In December 2011, the administrative law judge (&#8220;ALJ&#8221;) issued an initial determination that Motorola infringed one Microsoft patent, and recommended that the ITC issue a limited exclusion order against Motorola prohibiting importation of infringing Motorola Android devices. In May 2012, the ITC issued the limited exclusion order recommended by the ALJ, which became effective on July&#160;18, 2012.&#160;Microsoft has appealed certain aspects of the ITC ruling adverse to Microsoft; Motorola is expected to appeal the ITC exclusion order.</font></font></p>
<p style="margin-top: 12px; margin-bottom: 0px;" align="justify"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">In November 2010, Motorola filed an action against Microsoft in the ITC alleging infringement of five Motorola patents by Xbox consoles and accessories and seeking an exclusion order to prohibit importation of the allegedly infringing Xbox products into the U.S. In April 2012, the ALJ found that Xbox products infringe four of the five patents asserted by Motorola. The ALJ subsequently recommended that the ITC issue a limited exclusion order and a cease and desist order. Both Microsoft and Motorola sought ITC review of the ALJ&#8217;s findings. In June 2012, Microsoft filed a motion to terminate the investigation as to certain patents based on facts arising as the result of Google&#8217;s acquisition of Motorola. The ITC determined that it would review the ALJ&#8217;s initial determination in its entirety and remanded the matter to the ALJ (1)&#160;to apply certain ITC case precedent, (2)&#160;to rule on Microsoft&#8217;s June 2012 motion to terminate, and (3)&#160;set a new target date for completion of the investigation. If the ITC issues an exclusion order or cease and desist order, it will be subject to Presidential review for up to 60 days, during which it is expected that Microsoft could import Xbox products subject to posting a bond. Should any order issue and survive Presidential review, Microsoft may be able to mitigate its impact by altering Xbox products so they do not infringe the Motorola patents.</font></font></p>
<p style="margin-top: 18px; margin-bottom: 0px;"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><u>U.S. District Court</u></font></font></p>
<p style="margin-top: 12px; margin-bottom: 0px;" align="justify"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">The Seattle</font></font> <font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">District Court case filed in October 2010 by Microsoft as a companion to Microsoft&#8217;s ITC case against Motorola has been stayed pending the outcome of Microsoft&#8217;s ITC case.</font></p>
<p style="margin-top: 12px; margin-bottom: 0px;" align="justify"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">In November 2010, Microsoft sued Motorola for breach of contract in U.S. District Court in Seattle, alleging that Motorola breached its commitments to standards-setting organizations to license to Microsoft certain patents on reasonable and non-discriminatory (&#8220;RAND&#8221;) terms and conditions. Motorola has declared these patents essential to the implementation of the H.264 video standard and the 802.11 Wi-Fi standard. In suits described below, Motorola or a Motorola affiliate subsequently sued Microsoft on those patents in U.S. District Courts, in the ITC, and in Germany. In February 2012, the Seattle District Court granted a partial summary judgment in favor of Microsoft ruling that (1)&#160;Motorola entered into binding contractual commitments with standards organizations committing to license its declared-essential patents on RAND terms and conditions; and (2)&#160;Microsoft is a third-party beneficiary of those commitments. Subsequently, the court rejected Motorola&#8217;s argument that Microsoft had repudiated its right to a RAND license, and ruled a trial is needed to determine whether Motorola is in breach of its obligation to enter into a patent license with Microsoft and, if so, the amount of the RAND royalty. In April 2012, the court issued a temporary restraining order preventing Motorola from taking steps to enforce an injunction in Germany relating to the H.264 video patents. In May 2012, the court converted that order into a preliminary injunction.&#160;Motorola has appealed the court&#8217;s injunction orders to the Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit.&#160;The Seattle court has set a trial to determine the RAND royalty to begin in November 2012.</font></p>
<p style="margin-top: 12px; margin-bottom: 0px;" align="justify"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">Cases filed by Motorola in Wisconsin, California, and Florida, with the exception of one currently stayed case in Wisconsin (a companion case to Motorola&#8217;s ITC action), have been transferred at Microsoft&#8217;s request to the U.S District Court in Seattle. Motorola and Microsoft both seek damages as well as injunctive relief. No trial dates have been set in any of the transferred cases, and the parties have agreed to a stay of these cases.</font></p>
<p style="font-size: 6px; margin-top: 0px; margin-bottom: 0px;">&#160;</p>
<table style="border-collapse: collapse;" width="100%" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0">
<tr>
<td width="5%"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td align="left" valign="top" width="2%"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">&#8226;</font></td>
<td valign="top" width="1%"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td align="left" valign="top">
<p align="justify"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">In the transferred cases, Motorola asserts 15 patents are infringed by many Microsoft products including Windows Mobile 6.5 and Windows Phone 7, Windows Marketplace, Silverlight, Windows Vista and 7, Exchange Server 2003 and later, Exchange ActiveSync, Windows Live Messenger, Lync Server 2010, Outlook 2010, Office 365, SQL Server, Internet Explorer 9, Xbox, and Kinect.</font></p>
</td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="font-size: 6px; margin-top: 0px; margin-bottom: 0px;">&#160;</p>
<table style="border-collapse: collapse;" width="100%" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0">
<tr>
<td width="5%"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td align="left" valign="top" width="2%"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">&#8226;</font></td>
<td valign="top" width="1%"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td align="left" valign="top">
<p align="justify"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">In the Motorola action originally filed in California, Motorola asserts that Microsoft violated antitrust laws in connection with Microsoft&#8217;s assertion of patents against Motorola that Microsoft has agreed to license to certain qualifying entities on RAND terms and conditions.</font></p>
</td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="font-size: 6px; margin-top: 0px; margin-bottom: 0px;">&#160;</p>
<table style="border-collapse: collapse;" width="100%" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0">
<tr>
<td width="5%"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td align="left" valign="top" width="2%"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">&#8226;</font></td>
<td valign="top" width="1%"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td align="left" valign="top">
<p align="justify"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">In counterclaims in the patent actions brought by Motorola, Microsoft asserts 14 patents are infringed by Motorola Android devices and certain Motorola digital video recorders.</font></p>
</td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="font-size: 1px; margin-top: 18px; margin-bottom: 0px;">&#160;</p>
<p style="margin-top: 18px; margin-bottom: 0px;"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><u>Germany</u></font></p>
<p style="margin-top: 12px; margin-bottom: 0px;" align="justify"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">In July 2011, Motorola filed patent infringement actions in Germany against Microsoft and several Microsoft subsidiaries.</font></p>
<p style="font-size: 6px; margin-top: 0px; margin-bottom: 0px;">&#160;</p>
<table style="border-collapse: collapse;" width="100%" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0">
<tr>
<td width="5%"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td align="left" valign="top" width="2%"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">&#8226;</font></td>
<td valign="top" width="1%"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td align="left" valign="top">
<p align="justify"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">Two of the patents are asserted by Motorola to be essential to implementation of the H.264 video standard, and Motorola alleges that H.264 capable products including Xbox 360, Windows 7, Media Player, and Internet Explorer infringe those patents. Motorola seeks damages and an injunction. In May 2012, the court issued an injunction relating to all H.264 capable Microsoft products in Germany. However, due to orders in the separate litigation pending in Seattle, Washington described above, Motorola is enjoined from taking steps to enforce the German injunction. Damages would be determined in later proceedings. Microsoft has appealed the rulings of the first instance court.</font></p>
</td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="font-size: 6px; margin-top: 0px; margin-bottom: 0px;">&#160;</p>
<table style="border-collapse: collapse;" width="100%" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0">
<tr>
<td width="5%"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td align="left" valign="top" width="2%"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">&#8226;</font></td>
<td valign="top" width="1%"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td align="left" valign="top">
<p align="justify"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">Motorola asserts one of the patents covers certain syncing functionality in the ActiveSync protocol employed by Windows Phone 7, Outlook Mobile, Hotmail Mobile, Exchange Online, Exchange Server, and Hotmail Server. Motorola seeks damages and an injunction. In May 2012, the Court invited further argument and evidence from the parties relating to Microsoft&#8217;s &#8220;prior use&#8221; defense. If the court rules in favor of Motorola, an injunction could be issued immediately relating to these products employing the ActiveSync protocol in Germany, which Motorola could then take steps to enforce. We expect the court to issue a ruling in August 2012. Damages would be determined in later proceedings.</font></p>
</td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="font-size: 6px; margin-top: 0px; margin-bottom: 0px;">&#160;</p>
<table style="border-collapse: collapse;" width="100%" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0">
<tr>
<td width="5%"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td align="left" valign="top" width="2%"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">&#8226;</font></td>
<td valign="top" width="1%"><font size="1">&#160;</font></td>
<td align="left" valign="top">
<p align="justify"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">Should injunction orders be issued and enforced by Motorola, Microsoft may be able to mitigate the adverse impact by altering its products so they do not infringe the Motorola patents.</font></p>
</td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="margin-top: 12px; margin-bottom: 0px;" align="justify"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">In lawsuits Microsoft filed in Germany in September, October, and December 2011 and in April 2012, Microsoft asserts Motorola Android devices infringe Microsoft patents. Microsoft seeks damages and an injunction. In May 2012, the court issued an injunction on one patent against Motorola Android devices in Germany and ruled against Microsoft on a second patent. If the court rules in favor of Microsoft in a given case, an injunction could be issued immediately relating to the sale of the infringing devices in Germany, which Microsoft could then take steps to enforce. Damages would be determined in later proceedings. Motorola has appealed the first instance court&#8217;s ruling in Microsoft&#8217;s favor.</font></p>
<p style="margin-top: 18px; margin-bottom: 0px;"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><u>United Kingdom</u></font></p>
<p style="margin-top: 12px; margin-bottom: 0px;" align="justify"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">In December 2011, Microsoft filed an action against Motorola in the High Court of Justice, Chancery Division, Patents Court, in London, England, seeking to revoke the UK part of the European patent asserted by Motorola in Germany against the ActiveSync protocol. In February 2012, Motorola counterclaimed alleging infringement of the patent and seeking damages and an injunction. A trial is expected in December 2012.</font></p>
<p style="margin-top: 18px; margin-bottom: 0px;"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><i>Other Patent and Intellectual Property Claims</i></font></p>
<p style="margin-top: 12px; margin-bottom: 0px;" align="justify"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">In addition to these cases, there are approximately 60 other patent infringement cases pending against Microsoft.</font></p>
<p style="margin-top: 18px; margin-bottom: 0px;"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2"><b>Other</b></font></p>
<p style="margin-top: 12px; margin-bottom: 0px;" align="justify"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">We also are subject to a variety of other claims and suits that arise from time to time in the ordinary course of our business. Although management currently believes that resolving claims against us, individually or in aggregate, will not have a material adverse impact on our financial statements, these matters are subject to inherent uncertainties and management&#8217;s view of these matters may change in the future.</font></p>
<p style="margin-top: 12px; margin-bottom: 0px;" align="justify"><font style="font-family: ARIAL;" size="2">As of June&#160;30, 2012, we had accrued aggregate liabilities of $384 million in other current liabilities and $220 million in other long-term liabilities for all of our contingent legal matters. While we intend to defend these matters vigorously, adverse outcomes that we estimate could reach approximately $550 million in aggregate beyond recorded amounts are reasonably possible. Were unfavorable final outcomes to occur, there exists the possibility of a material adverse impact on our financial statements for the period in which the effects become reasonably estimable.</font></p>
</div>
-218000000
17530000000
<div>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 18px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>Income Taxes</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Income tax expense
includes U.S. and international income taxes, the provision for
U.S. taxes on undistributed earnings of international subsidiaries
not deemed to be permanently invested, and interest and penalties
on uncertain tax positions. Certain income and expenses are not
reported in tax returns and financial statements in the same year.
The tax effect of such temporary differences is reported as
deferred income taxes. Deferred tax assets are reported net of a
valuation allowance when it is more likely than not that a tax
benefit will not be realized. The deferred income taxes are
classified as current or long-term based on the classification of
the related asset or liability.</font></p>
</div>
<div>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">We excluded the following
shares underlying stock-based awards from the calculations of
diluted EPS because their inclusion would have been
anti-dilutive:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 12px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="87%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>(In millions)</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="12">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Year Ended June&#xA0;30,</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2012</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2011</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2010</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Shares excluded from calculations of
diluted EPS</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>1</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">21</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">28</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
</div>
<div>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 18px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="center">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><u>NOTE 8 &#x2014;
PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT</u></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">The components of
property and equipment were as follows:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 12px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="88%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="8"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>(In millions)</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="8">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>June&#xA0;30,</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2012</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2011</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Land</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>528</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">533</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Buildings and improvements</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>6,768</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">6,521</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Leasehold improvements</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>2,550</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">2,345</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Computer equipment and
software</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>7,298</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">6,601</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Furniture and equipment</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>2,087</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">1,991</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="4">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Total, at cost</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;19,231</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;17,991</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Accumulated depreciation</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(10,962</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(9,829</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="4">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Total, net</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>8,269</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">8,162</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">During fiscal years 2012,
2011, and 2010, depreciation expense was $2.2 billion, $2.0
billion, and $1.8 billion, respectively.</font></p>
</div>
142000000
<div>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Revenue from external
customers, classified by significant product and service offerings
were as follows:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 12px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="79%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>(In millions)</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="12">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Year Ended June&#xA0;30,</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2012</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2011</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2010</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Microsoft Office system</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>22,299</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">20,730</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">17,754</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Windows PC operating
systems</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>17,320</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">17,825</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">18,225</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Server products and tools</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>14,232</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">13,251</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">12,007</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Xbox 360 platform</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>8,045</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">8,103</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">5,456</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Consulting and product support
services</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>3,976</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">3,372</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">3,036</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Advertising</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>3,181</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">2,913</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">2,528</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Other</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>4,670</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">3,749</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">3,478</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="4">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Total</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;73,723</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;69,943</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;62,484</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
</table>
</div>
<div>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">The following tables
present the fair value of our financial instruments that are
measured at fair value on a recurring basis:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 12px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="51%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>(In millions)</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Level 1</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Level 2</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Level&#xA0;3</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Gross</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Fair</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Value</b></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Netting&#xA0;<sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(a)</sup></b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Net Fair<br />
Value</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="24">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>June&#xA0;30, 2012</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Assets</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Mutual funds</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>820</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>820</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>820</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Commercial paper</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>96</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>96</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>96</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Certificates of deposit</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>744</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>744</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>744</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">U.S. government and agency
securities</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>42,291</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>5,019</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>47,310</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>47,310</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Foreign government bonds</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>31</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>1,703</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>1,734</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>1,734</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Mortgage-backed securities</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>1,892</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>1,892</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>1,892</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Corporate notes and bonds</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>7,839</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>9</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>7,848</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>7,848</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Municipal securities</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>416</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>416</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>416</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Common and preferred stock</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>7,539</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>877</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>5</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>8,421</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>8,421</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Derivatives</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>16</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>467</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>483</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(141</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>342</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="4">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Total</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;50,697</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;19,053</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;14</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;69,764</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;(141</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;69,623</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Liabilities</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Derivatives and other</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>10</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>145</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>155</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(139</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>16</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="24">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="16"></td>
<td height="16" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="16" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="16" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="16" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="16" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="16" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>(In millions)</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Level 1</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Level 2</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Level&#xA0;3</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font><br />
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Gross</b></font><br />
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Fair</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Value</b></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font><br />
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Netting</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>&#xA0;<sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(a)</sup>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>&#xA0;<br />
&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Net Fair<br />
Value</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;<br />
&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="24">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>June&#xA0;30, 2011</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Assets</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Mutual funds</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">1,752</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">1,752</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">1,752</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Commercial paper</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">639</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">639</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">639</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Certificates of deposit</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">598</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">598</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">598</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">U.S. government and agency
securities</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">23,591</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">10,175</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">33,766</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">33,766</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Foreign government bonds</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">303</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">367</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">670</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">670</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Mortgage-backed securities</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">2,428</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">2,428</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">2,428</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Corporate notes and bonds</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">10,600</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">58</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">10,658</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">10,658</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Municipal securities</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">454</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">454</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">454</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Common and preferred stock</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">9,821</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">55</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">5</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">9,881</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">9,881</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Derivatives</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">8</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">388</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">20</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">416</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(204</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">212</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="4">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Total</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;35,475</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;25,704</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;83</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;61,262</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;(204</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;61,058</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Liabilities</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Derivatives and other</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">109</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">257</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">366</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(203</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">163</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="left" size="1" noshade="noshade" />
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 6px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td valign="top" width="4%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(a)</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left">
<p align="justify"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><i>These amounts represent the impact of netting derivative
assets and derivative liabilities when a legally enforceable master
netting agreement exists and fair value adjustments related to our
own credit risk and counterparty credit risk.</i></font></p>
</td>
</tr>
</table>
</div>
<div>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 18px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>Debt Investment
Maturities</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 12px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="88%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>(In millions)</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Cost&#xA0;Basis</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Estimated</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Fair&#xA0;Value</b></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="8">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>June&#xA0;30, 2012</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Due in one year or less</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">23,097</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">23,125</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Due after one year through five
years</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">31,029</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">31,124</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Due after five years through 10
years</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">3,173</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">3,371</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Due after 10 years</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">2,433</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">2,576</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="4">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Total</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;59,732</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;60,196</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
</table>
</div>
-0.211
0
394000000
93000000
0
1600000000
8396000000
<div>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 18px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="center">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><u>NOTE 13 &#x2014; INCOME
TAXES</u></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">The components of the
provision for income taxes were as follows:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 12px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="79%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="12"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>(In millions)</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="12">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Year Ended June&#xA0;30,</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2012</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2011</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2010</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Current Taxes</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">U.S. federal</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;2,235</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;3,108</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;4,415</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">U.S. state and local</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>153</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">209</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">357</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">International</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>1,947</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">1,602</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">1,701</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="4">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Current taxes</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>4,335</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">4,919</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">6,473</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Deferred Taxes</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Deferred taxes</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>954</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">2</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(220</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="4">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 3em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Provision for income taxes</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>5,289</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">4,921</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">6,253</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">U.S. and international
components of income before income taxes were as
follows:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 12px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="79%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="12"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>(In millions)</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="12">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Year Ended June&#xA0;30,</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2012</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2011</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2010</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">U.S.</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>1,600</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">8,862</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">9,575</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">International</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>20,667</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">19,209</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">15,438</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="4">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Income before income taxes</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;22,267</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;28,071</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;25,013</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">The items accounting for
the difference between income taxes computed at the U.S. federal
statutory rate and our effective rate were as follows:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 12px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="79%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="2%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="2%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="2%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="12">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Year Ended June&#xA0;30,</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2012</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2011</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2010</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Federal statutory rate</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>35.0%</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">35.0%</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">35.0%</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Effect of:</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Foreign earnings taxed at lower
rates</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(21.1)%</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(15.6)%</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(12.1)%</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Goodwill impairment</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>9.7%</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0%</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0%</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">I.R.S. settlement</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0%</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(1.7)%</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0%</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Other reconciling items,
net</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0.2%</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(0.2)%</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">2.1%</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="4">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 3em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Effective rate</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>23.8%</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">17.5%</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">25.0%</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">The reduction from the
federal statutory rate from foreign earnings taxed at lower rates
results from producing and distributing our products and services
through our foreign regional operations centers in Ireland,
Singapore, and Puerto Rico, which have lower income tax rates. In
general, other reconciling items consist of interest, U.S. state
income taxes, domestic production deductions, and credits. In
fiscal years 2012, 2011, and 2010, there were no individually
significant other reconciling items. The I.R.S. settlement is
discussed below.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 1px">
&#xA0;</p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">The components of the
deferred income tax assets and liabilities were as
follows:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 12px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="88%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>(In millions)</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="8">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>June&#xA0;30,</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2012</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2011</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Deferred Income Tax Assets</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Stock-based compensation
expense</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;882</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;1,079</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Other expense items</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>965</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">1,321</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Unearned revenue</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>571</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">463</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Impaired investments</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>152</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">424</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Loss carryforwards</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>532</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">90</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Other revenue items</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>79</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">69</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="4">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Deferred income tax assets</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>3,181</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">3,446</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Less valuation allowance</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(453</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="4">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Deferred income tax assets, net of
valuation allowance</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>2,728</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">3,446</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="4">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Deferred Income Tax Liabilities</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">International earnings</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(1,072</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(1,266</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Unrealized gain on
investments</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(830</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(904</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Depreciation and
amortization</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(670</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(265</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Other</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(14</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="4">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Deferred income tax
liabilities</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(2,586</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(2,435</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="4">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 3em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Net deferred income tax
assets</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>142</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">1,011</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Reported As</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Current deferred income tax
assets</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>2,035</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">2,467</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Long-term deferred income tax
liabilities</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(1,893</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(1,456</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="4">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 3em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Net deferred income tax
assets</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>142</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">1,011</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">The valuation allowance
disclosed in the table above relates to a portion of a $2.0 billion
net operating loss carryforward generated primarily in foreign
countries and&#xA0;acquired primarily through our acquisition of
Skype that may not be realized.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Deferred income tax
balances reflect the effects of temporary differences between the
carrying amounts of assets and liabilities and their tax bases and
are stated at enacted tax rates expected to be in effect when the
taxes are actually paid or recovered.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">As of June&#xA0;30, 2012,
we have not provided deferred U.S. income taxes or foreign
withholding taxes on temporary differences of approximately $60.8
billion resulting from earnings for certain non-U.S. subsidiaries
which are permanently reinvested outside the U.S. The unrecognized
deferred tax liability associated with these temporary differences
was approximately $19.4 billion at June&#xA0;30, 2012.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Income taxes paid were
$3.5 billion, $5.3 billion, and $4.1 billion in fiscal years 2012,
2011, and 2010, respectively.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 18px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>Uncertain Tax
Positions</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">As of June&#xA0;30, 2012,
we had $7.2 billion of unrecognized tax benefits of which $6.2
billion, if recognized, would affect our effective tax rate. As of
June&#xA0;30, 2011, we had $6.9 billion of unrecognized tax
benefits of which $5.9 billion, if recognized, would have affected
our effective tax rate.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Interest on unrecognized
tax benefits was $154 million, $38 million, and $193 million in
fiscal years 2012, 2011, and 2010, respectively. As of
June&#xA0;30, 2012, 2011, and 2010, we had accrued interest related
to uncertain tax positions of $939 million, $785 million, and $747
million, respectively, net of federal income tax
benefits.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 1px">
&#xA0;</p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">The aggregate changes in
the balance of unrecognized tax benefits were as
follows:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 12px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="79%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>(In millions)</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="12">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Year Ended June&#xA0;30,</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2012</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2011</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2010</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Balance, beginning of year</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;6,935</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;6,542</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;5,403</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Decreases related to
settlements</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(16</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(632</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(57</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Increases for tax positions related
to the current year</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>481</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">739</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">1,012</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Increases for tax positions related
to prior years</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>118</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">405</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">364</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Decreases for tax positions related
to prior years</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(292</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(119</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(166</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Decreases due to lapsed statutes of
limitations</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(24</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(14</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="4">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Balance, end of year</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>7,202</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">6,935</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">6,542</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">During the third quarter
of fiscal year 2011, we reached a settlement of a portion of an
I.R.S. audit of tax years 2004 to 2006, which reduced our income
tax expense by $461 million. While we settled a portion of the
I.R.S. audit, we remain under audit for these years. In February
2012, the I.R.S. withdrew its 2011 Revenue Agents Report and
reopened the audit phase of the examination. As of June&#xA0;30,
2012, the primary unresolved issue relates to transfer pricing,
which could have a significant impact on our financial statements
if not resolved favorably. We believe our allowances for tax
contingencies are appropriate. We do not believe it is reasonably
possible that the total amount of unrecognized tax benefits will
significantly increase or decrease within the next 12 months, as we
do not believe the remaining open issues will be resolved within
the next 12 months. We also continue to be subject to examination
by the I.R.S. for tax years 2007 to 2011.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">We are subject to income
tax in many jurisdictions outside the U.S. Certain jurisdictions
remain subject to examination for tax years 1996 to 2011, some of
which are currently under audit by local tax authorities. The
resolutions of these audits are not expected to be material to our
financial statements.</font></p>
</div>
5
<div>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 24px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="center">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><u>NOTE 4 &#x2014;
INVESTMENTS</u></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>Investment
Components</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">The components of investments,
including associated derivatives, were as follows:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 12px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="34%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>(In millions)</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Cost&#xA0;Basis</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Unrealized</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Gains</b></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Unrealized</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Losses</b></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Recorded</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Basis</b></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Cash</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>and
Cash</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Equivalents</b></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Short-term</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Investments</b></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Equity</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>and
Other</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Investments</b></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="28">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>June&#xA0;30, 2012</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Cash</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>2,019</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>2,019</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>2,019</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Mutual funds</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>820</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>820</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>820</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Commercial paper</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>96</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>96</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>96</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Certificates of deposit</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>744</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>744</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>342</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>402</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">U.S. government and
agency&#xA0;securities</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>47,178</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>130</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(2</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>47,306</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>561</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>46,745</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Foreign government bonds</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>1,741</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>18</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(29</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>1,730</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>575</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>1,155</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Mortgage-backed securities</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>1,816</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>82</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(2</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>1,896</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>1,896</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Corporate notes and bonds</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>7,799</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>224</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(15</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>8,008</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>2,525</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>5,483</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Municipal securities</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>358</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>58</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>416</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>416</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Common and preferred stock</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>6,965</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>2,204</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(436</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>8,733</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>8,733</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Other investments</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>1,048</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>1,048</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>5</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>1,043</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="4">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Total</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;70,584</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;2,716</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;(484</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;72,816</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;6,938</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;56,102</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;9,776</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="16"></td>
<td height="16" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="16" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="16" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="16" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="16" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="16" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="16" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>(In millions)</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Cost&#xA0;Basis</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Unrealized</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Gains</b></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Unrealized</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Losses</b></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Recorded</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Basis</b></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Cash</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>and&#xA0;Cash</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Equivalents</b></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Short-term</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Investments</b></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Equity</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>and&#xA0;Other</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Investments</b></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="28">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>June&#xA0;30, 2011</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Cash</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">1,648</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">1,648</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">1,648</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Mutual funds</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">1,752</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">1,752</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">1,752</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Commercial paper</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">639</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">639</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">414</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">225</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Certificates of deposit</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">598</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">598</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">372</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">226</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">U.S. government and
agency&#xA0;securities</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">33,607</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">162</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(7</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">33,762</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">2,049</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">31,713</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Foreign government bonds</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">658</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">11</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(2</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">667</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">667</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Mortgage-backed securities</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">2,307</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">121</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(4</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">2,424</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">2,424</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Corporate notes and bonds</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">10,575</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">260</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(11</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">10,824</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">3,375</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">7,449</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Municipal securities</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">441</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">15</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(2</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">454</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">454</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Common and preferred stock</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">7,925</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">2,483</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(193</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">10,215</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">10,215</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Other investments</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">654</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">654</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">4</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">650</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="4">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Total</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;60,804</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;3,052</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;(219</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;63,637</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;9,610</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;43,162</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;10,865</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 18px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 1px">
&#xA0;</p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>Unrealized Losses on
Investments</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Investments with
continuous unrealized losses for less than 12 months and 12 months
or greater and their related fair values were as
follows:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 12px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="51%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="6" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Less than 12
Months</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="6" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>12 Months or
Greater</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" rowspan="2" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" rowspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" rowspan="3" colspan="2" align="right">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Total</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Unrealized</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Losses</b></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom" rowspan="3"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="5">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="5">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>(In millions)</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Fair&#xA0;Value</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Unrealized<br />
Losses</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Fair&#xA0;Value</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Unrealized<br />
Losses</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Total<br />
Fair&#xA0;Value</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="24">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>June&#xA0;30, 2012</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">U.S. government and agency
securities</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>44</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(2</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>44</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(2</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Foreign government bonds</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>657</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(27</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>12</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(2</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>669</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(29</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Mortgage-backed securities</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>53</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>48</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(2</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>101</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(2</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Corporate notes and bonds</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>640</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(11</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>70</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(4</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>710</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(15</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Common and preferred stock</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>2,135</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(329</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>305</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(107</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>2,440</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(436</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="4">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Total</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;3,529</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;(369</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;435</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;(115</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;3,964</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;(484</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="16"></td>
<td height="16" colspan="8"></td>
<td height="16" colspan="8"></td>
<td height="16" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="16" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="6" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Less than 12
Months</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="6" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>12 Months or
Greater</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" rowspan="3" colspan="2" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Total<br />
Unrealized<br />
Losses</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" rowspan="3"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="5">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="5">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>(In millions)</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Fair&#xA0;Value</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Unrealized<br />
Losses</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Fair&#xA0;Value</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Unrealized<br />
Losses</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Total<br />
Fair&#xA0;Value</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="24">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>June&#xA0;30, 2011</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">U.S. government and agency
securities</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">484</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(7</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">484</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(7</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Foreign government bonds</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">365</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(2</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">365</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(2</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Mortgage-backed securities</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">63</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(3</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">14</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(1</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">77</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(4</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Corporate notes and bonds</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">750</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(10</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">25</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(1</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">775</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(11</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Municipal securities</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">79</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(2</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">79</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(2</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Common and preferred stock</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">1,377</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(146</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">206</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(47</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">1,583</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(193</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="4">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Total</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">3,118</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(170</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">245</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(49</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">3,363</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(219</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Unrealized losses from
fixed-income securities are primarily attributable to changes in
interest rates. Unrealized losses from domestic and international
equities are due to market price movements. Management does not
believe any remaining unrealized losses represent
other-than-temporary impairments based on our evaluation of
available evidence as of June&#xA0;30, 2012.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">At June&#xA0;30, 2012 and
2011, the recorded bases of common and preferred stock and other
investments that are restricted for more than one year or are not
publicly traded were $313 million and $334 million, respectively.
These investments are carried at cost and are reviewed quarterly
for indicators of other-than-temporary impairment. It is not
possible for us to reliably estimate the fair value of these
investments.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 18px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>Debt Investment
Maturities</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 12px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="88%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>(In millions)</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Cost&#xA0;Basis</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Estimated</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Fair&#xA0;Value</b></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="8">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>June&#xA0;30, 2012</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Due in one year or less</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">23,097</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">23,125</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Due after one year through five
years</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">31,029</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">31,124</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Due after five years through 10
years</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">3,173</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">3,371</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Due after 10 years</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">2,433</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">2,576</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="4">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Total</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;59,732</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;60,196</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
</table>
</div>
<div>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">The components of basic
and diluted EPS are as follows:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 12px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="79%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>(In millions, except earnings per share)</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="12">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Year Ended June&#xA0;30,</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2012</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2011</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2010</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Net income available for common
shareholders (A)</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;16,978</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;23,150</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;18,760</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Weighted average outstanding shares
of common stock (B)</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>8,396</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">8,490</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">8,813</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Dilutive effect of stock-based
awards</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>110</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">103</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">114</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="4">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Common stock and common stock
equivalents (C)</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>8,506</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">8,593</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">8,927</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Earnings Per Share</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Basic (A/B)</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>2.02</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">2.73</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">2.13</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Diluted (A/C)</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>2.00</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">2.69</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">2.10</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
</div>
<div>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Investments with
continuous unrealized losses for less than 12 months and 12 months
or greater and their related fair values were as
follows:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 12px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="51%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="6" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Less than 12
Months</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="6" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>12 Months or
Greater</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" rowspan="2" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" rowspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" rowspan="3" colspan="2" align="right">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Total</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Unrealized</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Losses</b></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom" rowspan="3"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="5">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="5">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>(In millions)</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Fair&#xA0;Value</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Unrealized<br />
Losses</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Fair&#xA0;Value</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Unrealized<br />
Losses</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Total<br />
Fair&#xA0;Value</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="24">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>June&#xA0;30, 2012</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">U.S. government and agency
securities</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>44</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(2</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>44</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(2</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Foreign government bonds</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>657</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(27</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>12</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(2</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>669</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(29</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Mortgage-backed securities</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>53</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>48</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(2</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>101</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(2</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Corporate notes and bonds</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>640</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(11</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>70</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(4</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>710</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(15</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Common and preferred stock</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>2,135</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(329</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>305</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(107</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>2,440</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(436</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="4">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Total</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;3,529</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;(369</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;435</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;(115</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;3,964</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;(484</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="16"></td>
<td height="16" colspan="8"></td>
<td height="16" colspan="8"></td>
<td height="16" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="16" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="6" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Less than 12
Months</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="6" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>12 Months or
Greater</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" rowspan="3" colspan="2" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Total<br />
Unrealized<br />
Losses</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" rowspan="3"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="5">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="5">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>(In millions)</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Fair&#xA0;Value</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Unrealized<br />
Losses</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Fair&#xA0;Value</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Unrealized<br />
Losses</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Total<br />
Fair&#xA0;Value</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="24">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>June&#xA0;30, 2011</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">U.S. government and agency
securities</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">484</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(7</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">484</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(7</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Foreign government bonds</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">365</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(2</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">365</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(2</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Mortgage-backed securities</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">63</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(3</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">14</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(1</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">77</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(4</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Corporate notes and bonds</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">750</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(10</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">25</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(1</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">775</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(11</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Municipal securities</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">79</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(2</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">79</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(2</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Common and preferred stock</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">1,377</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(146</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">206</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(47</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">1,583</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(193</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="4">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Total</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">3,118</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(170</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">245</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(49</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">3,363</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(219</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
</table>
</div>
-184000000
153000000
8200000000
0.350
<div>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 18px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>Principles of
Consolidation</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">The financial statements
include the accounts of Microsoft Corporation and its subsidiaries.
Intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated. Equity
investments through which we exercise significant influence over
but do not control the investee and are not the primary beneficiary
of the investee&#x2019;s activities are accounted for using the
equity method. Investments through which we are not able to
exercise significant influence over the investee and which do not
have readily determinable fair values are accounted for under the
cost method.</font></p>
</div>
<div>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="center">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><u>NOTE 23 &#x2014;
QUARTERLY INFORMATION (UNAUDITED)</u></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 12px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="53%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="5%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="5%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="5%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="5%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="5%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>(In millions, except per share amounts)</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="20">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Quarter Ended</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>September&#xA0;30</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>December&#xA0;31</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>March&#xA0;31</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>June&#xA0;30</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Total</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Fiscal Year 2012</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Revenue</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;17,372</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;20,885</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;17,407</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;18,059</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;73,723</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Gross profit</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>13,595</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>15,247</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>13,455</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>13,896</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>56,193</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Net income</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>5,738</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>6,624</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>5,108</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(492</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(a)</sup></font><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>16,978</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0; <font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(a)</sup></font><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Basic earnings (loss) per
share</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0.68</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0.79</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0.61</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(0.06</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>2.02</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Diluted earnings (loss) per
share</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0.68</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0.78</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0.60</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(0.06</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0; <font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(a)</sup></font><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>2.00</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0; <font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(a)</sup></font><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="4">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Fiscal Year 2011</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Revenue</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">16,195</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">19,953</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">16,428</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">17,367</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">69,943</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Gross profit</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">13,056</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">15,120</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">12,531</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">13,659</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">54,366</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Net income</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">5,410</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">6,634</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">5,232</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(b)</sup></font><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">5,874</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(c)</sup></font><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">23,150</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Basic earnings per share</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0.63</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0.78</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0.62</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0.70</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">2.73</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Diluted earnings per share</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0.62</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0.77</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0.61</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0.69</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">2.69</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="left" size="1" noshade="noshade" />
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 6px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td valign="top" width="4%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(a)</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left">
<p align="justify"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><i>Includes a goodwill impairment charge related to our OSD
business segment which decreased net income by $6.2 billion and
diluted earnings per share by $0.73.</i></font></p>
</td>
</tr>
</table>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td valign="top" width="4%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(b)</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left">
<p align="justify"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><i>Includes a partial settlement of an I.R.S. audit of tax
years 2004 to 2006, which increased net income by $461
million.</i></font></p>
</td>
</tr>
</table>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td valign="top" width="4%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(c)</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left">
<p align="justify"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><i>Reflects an effective tax rate of 7% due mainly to the
adjustment of our previously estimated effective tax rate for the
year to reflect the actual full year mix of foreign and U.S.
taxable income. In addition, upon completion of our annual domestic
and foreign tax returns, we adjusted the estimated tax provision to
reflect the tax returns filed and recorded an income tax benefit
which lowered our effective tax rate.</i></font></p>
</td>
</tr>
</table>
</div>
<div>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">The components of
unearned revenue were as follows:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 12px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="88%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>(In millions)</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="8">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>June&#xA0;30,</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2012</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2011</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Volume licensing programs</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;16,717</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;14,625</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Other&#xA0;</font><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(a)</sup></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>3,342</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">2,495</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="4">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Total</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>20,059</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">17,120</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 6px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td valign="top" width="4%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(a)</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left">
<p align="justify"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><i>Other as of June&#xA0;30, 2012 includes $540 million of
unearned revenue associated with the Windows Upgrade
Offer.</i></font></p>
</td>
</tr>
</table>
</div>
P2Y1M24D
0.000
<div>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Maturities of our
long-term debt for each of the next five years and thereafter are
as follows:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 12px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="90%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="4%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>(In millions)</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="4">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Year Ending June&#xA0;30,</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">2013</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">1,250</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">2014</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">3,000</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">2015</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">2016</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">2,500</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">2017</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Thereafter</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">5,250</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="4">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Total</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;12,000</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
</table>
</div>
<div>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="center">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><u>NOTE 7 &#x2014;
INVENTORIES</u></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">The components of
inventories were as follows:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 12px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="88%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="8"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>(In millions)</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="8">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>June&#xA0;30,</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2012</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2011</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Raw materials</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>210</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">232</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Work in process</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>96</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">56</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Finished goods</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>831</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">1,084</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="4">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Total</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;1,137</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;1,372</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
</table>
</div>
1947000000
2200000000
3500000000
2244000000
248000000
1418000000
56193000000
<div>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="53%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="5%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="5%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="5%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="5%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="5%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>(In millions, except per share amounts)</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="20">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Quarter Ended</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>September&#xA0;30</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>December&#xA0;31</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>March&#xA0;31</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>June&#xA0;30</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Total</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Fiscal Year 2012</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Revenue</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;17,372</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;20,885</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;17,407</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;18,059</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;73,723</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Gross profit</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>13,595</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>15,247</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>13,455</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>13,896</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>56,193</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Net income</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>5,738</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>6,624</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>5,108</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(492</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(a)</sup></font><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>16,978</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0; <font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(a)</sup></font><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Basic earnings (loss) per
share</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0.68</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0.79</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0.61</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(0.06</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>2.02</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Diluted earnings (loss) per
share</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0.68</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0.78</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0.60</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(0.06</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0; <font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(a)</sup></font><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>2.00</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0; <font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(a)</sup></font><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="4">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Fiscal Year 2011</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Revenue</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">16,195</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">19,953</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">16,428</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">17,367</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">69,943</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Gross profit</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">13,056</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">15,120</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">12,531</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">13,659</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">54,366</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Net income</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">5,410</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">6,634</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">5,232</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(b)</sup></font><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">5,874</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(c)</sup></font><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">23,150</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Basic earnings per share</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0.63</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0.78</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0.62</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0.70</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">2.73</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Diluted earnings per share</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0.62</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0.77</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0.61</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0.69</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">2.69</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="left" size="1" noshade="noshade" />
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 6px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td valign="top" width="4%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(a)</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left">
<p align="justify"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><i>Includes a goodwill impairment charge related to our OSD
business segment which decreased net income by $6.2 billion and
diluted earnings per share by $0.73.</i></font></p>
</td>
</tr>
</table>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td valign="top" width="4%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(b)</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left">
<p align="justify"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><i>Includes a partial settlement of an I.R.S. audit of tax
years 2004 to 2006, which increased net income by $461
million.</i></font></p>
</td>
</tr>
</table>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td valign="top" width="4%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(c)</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left">
<p align="justify"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><i>Reflects an effective tax rate of 7% due mainly to the
adjustment of our previously estimated effective tax rate for the
year to reflect the actual full year mix of foreign and U.S.
taxable income. In addition, upon completion of our annual domestic
and foreign tax returns, we adjusted the estimated tax provision to
reflect the tax returns filed and recorded an income tax benefit
which lowered our effective tax rate.</i></font></p>
</td>
</tr>
</table>
</div>
<div>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">The components of
intangible assets acquired during the periods presented were as
follows:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 12px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="81%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="2%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="2%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="2%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="2%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>(In millions)</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Amount</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Weighted</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Average&#xA0;Life</b></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Amount</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Weighted</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Average&#xA0;Life</b></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="16">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Year Ended June&#xA0;30,</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2012</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2011</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Technology-based</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>1,548</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>7&#xA0;years</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">119</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">3&#xA0;years</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Marketing-related</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>1,249</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>15&#xA0;years</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">1</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">7 years</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Contract-based</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>115</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>7&#xA0;years</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Customer-related</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>114</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>5&#xA0;years</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">2</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">4&#xA0;years</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="4">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Total</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;3,026</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>10&#xA0;years</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;122</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">3&#xA0;years</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
</div>
29700000000
<div>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 18px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="center">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><u>NOTE 12 &#x2014;
DEBT</u></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">As of June&#xA0;30, 2012,
the total carrying value and estimated fair value of our long-term
debt, including the current portion, were $11.9 billion and $13.2
billion, respectively. This is compared to a carrying value and
estimated fair value of $11.9 billion and $12.1 billion,
respectively, as of June&#xA0;30, 2011. These estimated fair values
are based on Level 2 inputs.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">The components of our
long-term debt, including the current portion, and the associated
interest rates and semi-annual interest record and payment dates
were as follows as of June&#xA0;30, 2012 and 2011:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 12px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="26%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="2%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="2%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="2%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="2%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="2%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="2%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="2%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Due Date</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Face Value</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Stated<br />
Interest</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Rate</b></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Effective<br />
Interest</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Rate</b></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Interest</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Record&#xA0;Date</b></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Interest</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Pay&#xA0;Date</b></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Interest</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Record
Date</b></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Interest</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Pay
Date</b></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="28">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>(In&#xA0;millions)</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Notes</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">September&#xA0;27,&#xA0;2013</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">1,000</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0.875%</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">1.000%</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">March&#xA0;15</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">March&#xA0;27</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">September&#xA0;15</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">September&#xA0;27</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">June&#xA0;1, 2014</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">2,000</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">2.950%</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">3.049%</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">May 15</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">June 1</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">November 15</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">December 1</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">September&#xA0;25,&#xA0;2015</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">1,750</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">1.625%</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">1.795%</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">March 15</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">March 25</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">September 15</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">September 25</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">February&#xA0;8, 2016</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">750</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">2.500%</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">2.642%</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">February&#xA0;1</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">February&#xA0;8</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">August 1</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">August 8</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">June&#xA0;1, 2019</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">1,000</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">4.200%</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">4.379%</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">May 15</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">June 1</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">November 15</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">December 1</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">October&#xA0;1, 2020</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">1,000</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">3.000%</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">3.137%</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">March 15</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">April 1</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">September 15</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">October 1</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">February&#xA0;8, 2021</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">500</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">4.000%</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">4.082%</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">February 1</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">February 8</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">August 1</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">August 8</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">June&#xA0;1, 2039</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">750</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">5.200%</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">5.240%</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">May 15</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">June 1</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">November 15</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">December 1</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">October&#xA0;1, 2040</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">1,000</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">4.500%</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">4.567%</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">March 15</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">April 1</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">September 15</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">October 1</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">February&#xA0;8, 2041</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">1,000</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">5.300%</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">5.361%</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">February 1</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">February 8</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">August 1</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">August 8</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="4">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Total</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">10,750</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Convertible Debt</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">June&#xA0;15, 2013</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">1,250</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0.000%</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">1.849%</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="4">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Total face value</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;12,000</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">As of June&#xA0;30, 2012
and 2011, the aggregate unamortized discount for our long-term
debt, including the current portion, was $56 million and $79
million, respectively.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 18px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>Notes</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">The Notes are senior
unsecured obligations and rank equally with our other unsecured and
unsubordinated debt outstanding.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 18px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 1px">
&#xA0;</p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>Convertible Debt</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">In June 2010, we issued
$1.25 billion of zero coupon convertible unsecured debt due on
June&#xA0;15, 2013 in a private placement offering. Proceeds from
the offering were $1.24 billion, net of fees and expenses, which
were capitalized. Initially, each $1,000 principal amount of notes
was convertible into 29.94 shares of Microsoft common stock at a
conversion price of $33.40 per share. The conversion ratio is
adjusted periodically for dividends in excess of the initial
dividend threshold as defined in the debt agreement. As of
June&#xA0;30, 2012, the net carrying amount of our convertible debt
was $1.2 billion and the unamortized discount was $19
million.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Prior to March&#xA0;15,
2013, the notes will be convertible, only in certain circumstances,
into cash and, if applicable, cash, shares of Microsoft&#x2019;s
common stock, or a combination thereof, at our election. On or
after March&#xA0;15, 2013, the notes will be convertible at any
time. Upon conversion, we will pay cash up to the aggregate
principal amount of the notes and pay or deliver cash, shares of
our common stock, or a combination of cash and shares of our common
stock, at our election.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Because the convertible
debt may be wholly or partially settled in cash, we are required to
separately account for the liability and equity components of the
notes in a manner that reflects our nonconvertible debt borrowing
rate when interest costs are recognized in subsequent periods. The
net proceeds of $1.24 billion were allocated between debt for $1.18
billion and stockholders&#x2019; equity for $58 million with the
portion in stockholders&#x2019; equity representing the fair value
of the option to convert the debt.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">In connection with the
issuance of the notes, we entered into capped call transactions
with certain option counterparties who are initial purchasers of
the notes or their affiliates. The capped call transactions are
expected to reduce potential dilution of earnings per share upon
conversion of the notes. Under the capped call transactions, we
purchased from the option counterparties capped call options that
in the aggregate relate to the total number of shares of our common
stock underlying the notes, with a strike price equal to the
conversion price of the notes and with an initial cap price equal
to $37.16, which is adjusted periodically to mirror any adjustments
to the conversion price. The purchased capped calls were valued at
$40 million and recorded to stockholders&#x2019; equity.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 18px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>Debt Service</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Maturities of our
long-term debt for each of the next five years and thereafter are
as follows:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 12px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="90%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="4%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>(In millions)</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="4">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Year Ending June&#xA0;30,</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">2013</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">1,250</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">2014</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">3,000</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">2015</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">2016</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">2,500</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">2017</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Thereafter</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">5,250</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="4">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Total</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;12,000</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Cash paid for interest on
our debt for fiscal years 2012, 2011, and 2010 was $344 million,
$197 million, and $145 million, respectively.</font></p>
</div>
<div>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">U.S. and international
components of income before income taxes were as
follows:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 12px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="79%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="12"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>(In millions)</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="12">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Year Ended June&#xA0;30,</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2012</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2011</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2010</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">U.S.</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>1,600</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">8,862</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">9,575</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">International</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>20,667</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">19,209</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">15,438</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="4">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Income before income taxes</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;22,267</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;28,071</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;25,013</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
</table>
</div>
<div>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">The components of our
long-term debt, including the current portion, and the associated
interest rates and semi-annual interest record and payment dates
were as follows as of June&#xA0;30, 2012 and 2011:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 12px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="26%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="2%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="2%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="2%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="2%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="2%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="2%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="2%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Due Date</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Face Value</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Stated<br />
Interest</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Rate</b></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Effective<br />
Interest</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Rate</b></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Interest</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Record&#xA0;Date</b></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Interest</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Pay&#xA0;Date</b></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Interest</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Record
Date</b></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Interest</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Pay
Date</b></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="28">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>(In&#xA0;millions)</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Notes</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">September&#xA0;27,&#xA0;2013</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">1,000</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0.875%</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">1.000%</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">March&#xA0;15</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">March&#xA0;27</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">September&#xA0;15</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">September&#xA0;27</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">June&#xA0;1, 2014</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">2,000</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">2.950%</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">3.049%</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">May 15</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">June 1</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">November 15</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">December 1</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">September&#xA0;25,&#xA0;2015</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">1,750</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">1.625%</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">1.795%</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">March 15</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">March 25</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">September 15</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">September 25</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">February&#xA0;8, 2016</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">750</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">2.500%</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">2.642%</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">February&#xA0;1</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">February&#xA0;8</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">August 1</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">August 8</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">June&#xA0;1, 2019</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">1,000</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">4.200%</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">4.379%</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">May 15</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">June 1</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">November 15</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">December 1</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">October&#xA0;1, 2020</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">1,000</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">3.000%</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">3.137%</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">March 15</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">April 1</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">September 15</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">October 1</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">February&#xA0;8, 2021</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">500</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">4.000%</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">4.082%</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">February 1</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">February 8</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">August 1</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">August 8</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">June&#xA0;1, 2039</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">750</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">5.200%</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">5.240%</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">May 15</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">June 1</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">November 15</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">December 1</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">October&#xA0;1, 2040</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">1,000</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">4.500%</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">4.567%</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">March 15</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">April 1</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">September 15</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">October 1</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">February&#xA0;8, 2041</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">1,000</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">5.300%</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">5.361%</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">February 1</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">February 8</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">August 1</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">August 8</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="4">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Total</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">10,750</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Convertible Debt</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">June&#xA0;15, 2013</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">1,250</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0.000%</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">1.849%</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="4">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Total face value</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;12,000</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
</div>
344000000
127000000
<div>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>Stock-Based
Compensation</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">We measure stock-based
compensation cost at the grant date based on the fair value of the
award and recognize it as expense, net of estimated forfeitures,
over the vesting or service period, as applicable, of the stock
award (generally four to five years) using the straight-line
method.</font></p>
</div>
373000000
No sales to an individual customer or country other than the United States  accounted for more than 10%
<div>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="center">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><u>NOTE 21 &#x2014;
SEGMENT INFORMATION AND GEOGRAPHIC DATA</u></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">In its operation of the
business, management, including our chief operating decision maker,
the company&#x2019;s Chief Executive Officer, reviews certain
financial information, including segmented internal profit and loss
statements prepared on a basis not consistent with U.S. GAAP. The
segment information within this note is reported on that basis. Our
five segments are Windows&#xA0;&amp; Windows Live Division; Server
and Tools; Online Services Division; Microsoft Business Division;
and Entertainment and Devices Division.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Due to the integrated
structure of our business, certain revenue earned and costs
incurred by one segment may benefit other segments. Revenue on
certain contracts may be allocated among the segments based on the
relative value of the underlying products and services. Costs that
are identifiable are allocated to the segments that benefit to
incent cross-collaboration among our segments so that one segment
is not solely burdened by the cost of a mutually beneficial
activity. Allocated costs may include those relating to development
and marketing of products and services from which multiple segments
benefit, or those costs relating to services performed by one
segment on behalf of other segments. Each allocation is measured
differently based on the specific facts and circumstances of the
costs being allocated.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">In addition, certain
costs incurred at a corporate level that are identifiable and that
benefit our segments are allocated to them. These allocated costs
include costs of: field selling; employee benefits; shared
facilities services; and customer service and support. Each
allocation is measured differently based on the specific facts and
circumstances of the costs being allocated. Certain other
corporate-level activity is not allocated to our segments,
including costs of: broad-based sales and marketing; product
support services; human resources; legal; finance; information
technology; corporate development and procurement activities;
research and development; legal settlements and contingencies; and
employee severance.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">We have recast certain
prior period amounts within this note to conform to the way we
internally managed and monitored segment performance during the
current fiscal year, including moving Forefront Protection for
Office, an anti-malware solution, from Server and Tools to the
Microsoft Business Division, as well as conforming management
reporting and U.S. GAAP reporting for stock-based
compensation.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">The principal products
and services provided by each segment are summarized
below:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>Windows&#xA0;&amp;
Windows Live Division</b> &#x2013; Windows&#xA0;&amp; Windows Live
Division offerings consist of the Windows 7 operating system,
software and services through Windows Live, and PC hardware
products.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>Server and Tools</b>
&#x2013; Server and Tools product and service offerings include
Windows Server, Windows Azure, Microsoft SQL Server, Windows
Embedded device platforms, and Enterprise Services. Enterprise
Services comprise Premier product support services and Microsoft
Consulting Services.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>Online Services
Division</b> &#x2013; Online Services Division offerings include
Bing, MSN, and advertiser tools.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>Microsoft Business
Division</b> &#x2013; Microsoft Business Division offerings include
Microsoft Office, SharePoint, Exchange, Lync, and Microsoft
Dynamics business solutions.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>Entertainment and
Devices Division</b> &#x2013; Entertainment and Devices Division
offerings include the Xbox 360 entertainment platform, including
Kinect for Xbox 360, Skype, and Windows Phone.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 1px">
&#xA0;</p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Segment revenue and
operating income (loss) were as follows during the periods
presented:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 12px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="79%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>(In millions)</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="12">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Year Ended June&#xA0;30,</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2012</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2011</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2010</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Revenue</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Windows&#xA0;&amp; Windows Live
Division</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>18,818</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">18,787</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">18,789</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Server and Tools</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>18,696</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">16,691</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">15,121</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Online Services Division</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>2,934</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">2,680</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">2,345</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Microsoft Business
Division</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>23,963</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">22,314</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">19,525</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Entertainment and Devices
Division</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>9,585</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">8,896</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">6,135</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Unallocated and other</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(273</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">575</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">569</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="4">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Consolidated</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;73,723</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;69,943</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;62,484</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 12px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="79%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>(In millions)</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="12">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Year Ended June&#xA0;30,</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2012</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2011</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2010</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Operating Income (Loss)</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Windows&#xA0;&amp; Windows Live
Division</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>11,908</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">11,971</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">12,193</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Server and Tools</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>7,459</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">6,332</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">5,378</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Online Services Division</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(8,122</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(2,649</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(2,395</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Microsoft Business
Division</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>15,688</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">14,453</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">12,109</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Entertainment and Devices
Division</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>365</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">1,294</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">525</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Reconciling amounts</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(5,535</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(4,240</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(3,712</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="4">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Consolidated</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;21,763</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;27,161</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;24,098</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Reconciling amounts in
the tables above and below include adjustments to conform our
internal accounting policies to U.S. GAAP and corporate-level
activity not specifically attributed to a segment. Significant
internal accounting policies that differ from U.S. GAAP relate to
revenue recognition, income statement classification, and
depreciation.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Significant reconciling
items were as follows:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 12px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="79%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="4%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="4%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="4%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>(In millions)</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="12">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Year Ended June&#xA0;30,</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2012</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2011</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2010</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Corporate-level
activity&#xA0;</font><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(a)</sup></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(5,090</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(4,597</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(4,136</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Revenue reconciling
amounts</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(486</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">381</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">314</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Other</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>41</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(24</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">110</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="4">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Total</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;(5,535)</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;(4,240)</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;(3,712)</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 6px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td valign="top" width="4%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(a)</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left">
<p align="justify"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><i>Corporate-level activity excludes revenue reconciling
amounts presented separately in that line item.</i></font></p>
</td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 1px">
&#xA0;</p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">No sales to an individual
customer or country other than the United States accounted for more
than 10% of fiscal year 2012, 2011, or 2010 revenue. Revenue,
classified by the major geographic areas in which our customers are
located, was as follows:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 12px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="79%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>(In millions)</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="12">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Year Ended June&#xA0;30,</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2012</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2011</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2010</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">United
States&#xA0;</font><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(a)</sup></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>38,846</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">38,008</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">36,173</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Other countries</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>34,877</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">31,935</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">26,311</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="4">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Total</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;73,723</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;69,943</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;62,484</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 6px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td valign="top" width="4%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(a)</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left">
<p align="justify"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><i>Includes billings to OEMs and certain multinational
organizations because of the nature of these businesses and the
impracticability of determining the geographic source of the
revenue.</i></font></p>
</td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Revenue from external
customers, classified by significant product and service offerings
were as follows:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 12px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="79%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>(In millions)</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="12">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Year Ended June&#xA0;30,</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2012</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2011</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2010</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Microsoft Office system</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>22,299</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">20,730</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">17,754</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Windows PC operating
systems</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>17,320</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">17,825</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">18,225</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Server products and tools</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>14,232</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">13,251</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">12,007</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Xbox 360 platform</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>8,045</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">8,103</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">5,456</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Consulting and product support
services</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>3,976</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">3,372</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">3,036</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Advertising</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>3,181</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">2,913</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">2,528</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Other</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>4,670</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">3,749</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">3,478</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="4">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Total</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;73,723</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;69,943</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;62,484</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Assets are not allocated
to segments for internal reporting presentations. A portion of
amortization and depreciation is included with various other costs
in an overhead allocation to each segment, and it is impracticable
for us to separately identify the amount of amortization and
depreciation by segment that is included in the measure of segment
profit or loss.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Long-lived assets,
excluding financial instruments and tax assets, classified by the
location of the controlling statutory company and with countries
over 10% of the total shown separately, were as follows:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 12px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="79%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>(In millions)</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="12">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>June&#xA0;30,</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2012</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2011</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2010</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">United States</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>14,081</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">18,498</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">18,716</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Luxembourg</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>6,975</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Other countries</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>3,835</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">2,989</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">2,466</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="4">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Total</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;24,891</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;21,487</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;21,182</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
</table>
</div>
<div>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="center">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><u>NOTE 5 &#x2014;
DERIVATIVES</u></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">We use derivative
instruments to manage risks related to foreign currencies, equity
prices, interest rates, and credit; to enhance investment returns;
and to facilitate portfolio diversification. Our objectives for
holding derivatives include reducing, eliminating, and efficiently
managing the economic impact of these exposures as effectively as
possible. Our derivative programs include strategies that both
qualify and do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment. All
notional amounts presented below are measured in U.S. currency
equivalents.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 18px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>Foreign Currency</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Certain forecasted
transactions, assets, and liabilities are exposed to foreign
currency risk. We monitor our foreign currency exposures daily to
maximize the economic effectiveness of our foreign currency hedge
positions. Option and forward contracts are used to hedge a portion
of forecasted international revenue for up to three years in the
future and are designated as cash flow hedging instruments.
Principal currencies hedged include the euro, Japanese yen, British
pound, and Canadian dollar. As of June&#xA0;30, 2012 and
June&#xA0;30, 2011, the total notional amounts of these foreign
exchange contracts sold were $6.7 billion and $10.6 billion,
respectively.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Foreign currency risks
related to certain non-U.S. dollar denominated securities are
hedged using foreign exchange forward contracts that are designated
as fair value hedging instruments. As of June&#xA0;30, 2012 and
June&#xA0;30, 2011, the total notional amounts of these foreign
exchange contracts sold were $1.3 billion and $572 million,
respectively.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Certain options and
forwards not designated as hedging instruments are also used to
manage the variability in exchange rates on accounts receivable,
cash, and intercompany positions, and to manage other foreign
currency exposures.&#xA0;As of June&#xA0;30, 2012, the total
notional amounts of these foreign exchange contracts purchased and
sold were $3.6 billion and $7.3 billion, respectively. As of
June&#xA0;30, 2011, the total notional amounts of these foreign
exchange contracts purchased and sold were $4.3 billion and $7.1
billion, respectively.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 18px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>Equity</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Securities held in our
equity and other investments portfolio are subject to market price
risk.&#xA0;Market price risk is managed relative to broad-based
global and domestic equity indices using certain convertible
preferred investments, options, futures, and swap contracts not
designated as hedging instruments. From time to time, to hedge our
price risk, we may use and designate equity derivatives as hedging
instruments, including puts, calls, swaps, and forwards.&#xA0;As of
June&#xA0;30, 2012, the total notional amounts of designated and
non-designated equity contracts purchased and sold were $1.4
billion and $982 million, respectively. As of June&#xA0;30, 2011,
the total notional amounts of designated and non-designated equity
contracts purchased and sold were $1.1 billion and $860 million,
respectively.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 18px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>Interest Rate</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Securities held in our
fixed-income portfolio are subject to different interest rate risks
based on their maturities. We manage the average maturity of our
fixed-income portfolio to achieve economic returns that correlate
to certain broad-based fixed-income indices using exchange-traded
option and futures contracts and over-the-counter swap and option
contracts, none of which are designated as hedging instruments. As
of June&#xA0;30, 2012, the total notional amounts of fixed-interest
rate contracts purchased and sold were $3.2 billion and $1.9
billion, respectively. As of June&#xA0;30, 2011, the total notional
amounts of fixed-interest rate contracts purchased and sold were
$2.3 billion and $697 million, respectively.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">In addition, we use
&#x201C;To Be Announced&#x201D; forward purchase commitments of
mortgage-backed assets to gain exposure to agency mortgage-backed
securities.&#xA0;These meet the definition of a derivative
instrument in cases where physical delivery of the assets is not
taken at the earliest available delivery date. As of June&#xA0;30,
2012 and 2011, the total notional derivative amount of mortgage
contracts purchased were $1.1 billion and $868 million,
respectively.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 18px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 1px">
&#xA0;</p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>Credit</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Our fixed-income
portfolio is diversified and consists primarily of investment-grade
securities. We use credit default swap contracts, not designated as
hedging instruments, to manage credit exposures relative to
broad-based indices and to facilitate portfolio diversification. We
use credit default swaps as they are a low cost method of managing
exposure to individual credit risks or groups of credit risks. As
of June&#xA0;30, 2012, the total notional amounts of credit
contracts purchased and sold were $318 million and $456 million,
respectively. As of June&#xA0;30, 2011, the total notional amounts
of credit contracts purchased and sold were $532 million and $281
million, respectively.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 18px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>Commodity</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">We use broad-based
commodity exposures to enhance portfolio returns and to facilitate
portfolio diversification. We use swap, futures, and option
contracts, not designated as hedging instruments, to generate and
manage exposures to broad-based commodity indices. We use
derivatives on commodities as they can be low-cost alternatives to
the purchase and storage of a variety of commodities, including,
but not limited to, precious metals, energy, and grain. As of
June&#xA0;30, 2012, the total notional amounts of commodity
contracts purchased and sold were $1.5 billion and $445 million,
respectively. As of June&#xA0;30, 2011, the total notional amounts
of commodity contracts purchased and sold were $1.9 billion and
$502 million, respectively.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 18px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>Credit-Risk-Related Contingent
Features</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Certain of our
counterparty agreements for derivative instruments contain
provisions that require our issued and outstanding long-term
unsecured debt to maintain an investment grade credit rating and
require us to maintain a minimum liquidity of $1.0 billion. To the
extent we fail to meet these requirements, we will be required to
post collateral, similar to the standard convention related to
over-the-counter derivatives. As of June&#xA0;30, 2012, our
long-term unsecured debt rating was AAA, and cash investments were
in excess of $1.0 billion. As a result, no collateral was required
to be posted.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 18px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 1px">
&#xA0;</p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>Fair Values of Derivative
Instruments</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">The following tables
present the gross fair values of derivative instruments designated
as hedging instruments (&#x201C;designated hedge derivatives&#x201D;)
and not designated as hedging instruments (&#x201C;non-designated
hedge derivatives&#x201D;). The fair values exclude the impact of
netting derivative assets and liabilities when a legally
enforceable master netting agreement exists and fair value
adjustments related to our own credit risk and counterparty credit
risk:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 12px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="51%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="4%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="4%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="4%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="4%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="4%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="4%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>(In millions)</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Foreign</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Exchange</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Contracts</b></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Equity</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Contracts</b></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Interest</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Rate</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Contracts</b></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Credit</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Contracts</b></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Commodity</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Contracts</b></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Total</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Derivatives</b></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="24">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>June&#xA0;30, 2012</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Assets</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Non-designated hedge
derivatives:</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 3em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Short-term investments</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;14</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;162</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;10</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;26</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;3</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;215</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 3em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Other current assets</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>85</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>85</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="4">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 5em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Total</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>99</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>162</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>10</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>26</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>3</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>300</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Designated hedge
derivatives:</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 3em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Short-term investments</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>6</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>6</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 3em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Other current assets</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>177</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>177</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="4">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 5em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Total</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>183</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>183</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 7em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Total assets</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>282</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>162</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>10</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>26</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>3</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>483</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Liabilities</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Non-designated hedge
derivatives:</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 3em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Other current liabilities</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(84</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(19</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(17</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(21</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(141</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Designated hedge
derivatives:</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 3em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Other current liabilities</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(14</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(14</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="4">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 7em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Total liabilities</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(98</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(19</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(17</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(21</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(155</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="16"></td>
<td height="16" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="16" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="16" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="16" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="16" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="16" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>(In millions)</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Foreign</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Exchange</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Contracts</b></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Equity</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Contracts</b></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Interest</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Rate</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Contracts</b></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Credit</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Contracts</b></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Commodity</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Contracts</b></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Total</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Derivatives</b></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="24">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>June&#xA0;30, 2011</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Assets</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Non-designated hedge
derivatives:</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 3em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Short-term investments</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;14</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;179</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;17</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;4</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;214</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 3em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Other current assets</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">73</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">73</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="4">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 5em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Total</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">87</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">179</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">17</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">4</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">287</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Designated hedge
derivatives:</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 3em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Short-term investments</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">6</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">6</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 3em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Other current assets</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">123</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">123</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="4">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 5em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Total</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">129</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">129</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 7em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Total assets</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">216</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">179</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">17</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">4</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">416</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Liabilities</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Non-designated hedge
derivatives:</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 3em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Other current liabilities</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(91</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(12</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(9</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(19</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(4</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(135</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Designated hedge
derivatives:</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 3em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Other current liabilities</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(128</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(128</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="4">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 7em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Total liabilities</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(219</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(12</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;(9</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(19</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(4</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(263</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">See also Note 4 &#x2013;
Investments and Note&#xA0;6&#xA0;&#x2013; Fair Value
Measurements.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 18px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 1px">
&#xA0;</p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>Fair Value Hedge Gains
(Losses)</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">We recognized in other
income (expense) the following gains (losses) on contracts
designated as fair value hedges and their related hedged
items:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 12px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="81%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="4%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="4%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="4%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>(In millions)</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="12">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Year Ended June&#xA0;30,</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2012</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2011</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2010</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Foreign Exchange Contracts</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Derivatives</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;52</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(92</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(57</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Hedged items</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(50</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;85</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;60</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="4">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Total</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>2</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(7</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">3</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 18px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>Cash Flow Hedge Gains
(Losses)</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">We recognized the
following gains (losses) on foreign exchange contracts designated
as cash flow hedges (our only cash flow hedges during the periods
presented):</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 12px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="79%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>(In millions)</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="12">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Year Ended June&#xA0;30,</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2012</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2011</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2010</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Effective Portion</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Gain (loss) recognized in OCI, net of
tax effect of <b>$127,</b> $(340) and $188</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;236</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;(632</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;349</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Gain (loss) reclassified from OCI
into revenue</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(27</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(7</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">495</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Amount Excluded from Effectiveness Assessment and
Ineffective Portion</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Loss recognized in other income
(expense)</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(231</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(276</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(174</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="left" size="1" noshade="noshade" />
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">We estimate that $137
million of net derivative gains included in OCI at June&#xA0;30,
2012 will be reclassified into earnings within the following 12
months. No significant amounts of gains (losses) were reclassified
from OCI into earnings as a result of forecasted transactions that
failed to occur during fiscal year 2012.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 18px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>Non-Designated Derivative Gains
(Losses)</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Gains (losses) from
changes in fair values of derivatives that are not designated as
hedges are primarily recognized in other income (expense). These
amounts are shown in the table below, with the exception of gains
(losses) on derivatives presented in income statement line items
other than other income (expense), which were immaterial for the
periods presented. Other than those derivatives entered into for
investment purposes, such as commodity contracts, the gains
(losses) below are generally economically offset by unrealized
gains (losses) in the underlying available-for-sale
securities.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 12px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="81%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>(In millions)</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="12">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Year Ended June&#xA0;30,</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2012</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2011</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2010</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Foreign exchange contracts</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(119</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(27</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">106</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Equity contracts</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(85</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">35</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">12</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Interest-rate contracts</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>93</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">19</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(4</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Credit contracts</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(7</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">24</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">22</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Commodity contracts</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(121</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">148</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(1</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="4">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Total</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;(239</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;199</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;135</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
</table>
</div>
954000000
118000000
0.017
1000000
<div>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">The following table
outlines the estimated future amortization expense related to
intangible assets held at June&#xA0;30, 2012:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 12px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="91%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="4%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>(In millions)</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="4">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Year Ending June&#xA0;30,</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">2013</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">597</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">2014</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">432</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">2015</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">367</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">2016</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">304</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">2017</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">234</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Thereafter</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">1,236</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="4">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Total</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;3,170</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
</table>
</div>
<div>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">The following tables
present the gross fair values of derivative instruments designated
as hedging instruments (&#x201C;designated hedge derivatives&#x201D;)
and not designated as hedging instruments (&#x201C;non-designated
hedge derivatives&#x201D;). The fair values exclude the impact of
netting derivative assets and liabilities when a legally
enforceable master netting agreement exists and fair value
adjustments related to our own credit risk and counterparty credit
risk:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 12px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="51%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="4%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="4%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="4%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="4%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="4%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="4%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>(In millions)</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Foreign</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Exchange</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Contracts</b></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Equity</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Contracts</b></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Interest</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Rate</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Contracts</b></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Credit</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Contracts</b></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Commodity</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Contracts</b></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Total</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Derivatives</b></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="24">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>June&#xA0;30, 2012</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Assets</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Non-designated hedge
derivatives:</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 3em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Short-term investments</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;14</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;162</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;10</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;26</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;3</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;215</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 3em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Other current assets</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>85</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>85</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="4">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 5em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Total</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>99</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>162</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>10</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>26</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>3</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>300</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Designated hedge
derivatives:</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 3em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Short-term investments</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>6</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>6</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 3em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Other current assets</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>177</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>177</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="4">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 5em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Total</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>183</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>183</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 7em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Total assets</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>282</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>162</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>10</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>26</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>3</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>483</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Liabilities</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Non-designated hedge
derivatives:</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 3em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Other current liabilities</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(84</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(19</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(17</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(21</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(141</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Designated hedge
derivatives:</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 3em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Other current liabilities</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(14</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(14</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="4">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 7em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Total liabilities</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(98</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(19</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(17</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(21</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(155</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="16"></td>
<td height="16" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="16" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="16" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="16" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="16" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="16" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>(In millions)</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Foreign</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Exchange</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Contracts</b></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Equity</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Contracts</b></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Interest</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Rate</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Contracts</b></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Credit</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Contracts</b></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Commodity</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Contracts</b></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Total</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Derivatives</b></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="24">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>June&#xA0;30, 2011</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Assets</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Non-designated hedge
derivatives:</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 3em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Short-term investments</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;14</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;179</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;17</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;4</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;214</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 3em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Other current assets</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">73</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">73</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="4">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 5em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Total</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">87</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">179</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">17</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">4</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">287</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Designated hedge
derivatives:</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 3em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Short-term investments</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">6</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">6</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 3em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Other current assets</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">123</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">123</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="4">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 5em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Total</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">129</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">129</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 7em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Total assets</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">216</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">179</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">17</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">4</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">416</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Liabilities</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Non-designated hedge
derivatives:</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 3em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Other current liabilities</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(91</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(12</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(9</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(19</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(4</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(135</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Designated hedge
derivatives:</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 3em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Other current liabilities</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(128</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(128</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="4">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 7em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Total liabilities</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(219</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(12</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;(9</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(19</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(4</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(263</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
</table>
</div>
43000000
16978000000
504000000
954000000
93000000
147000000
-117000000
<div>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 18px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>Foreign Currencies</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Assets and liabilities
recorded in foreign currencies are translated at the exchange rate
on the balance sheet date. Revenue and expenses are translated at
average rates of exchange prevailing during the year. Translation
adjustments resulting from this process are recorded to Other
Comprehensive Income (&#x201C;OCI&#x201D;).</font></p>
</div>
639000000
6000000
7198000000
<div>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 18px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="center">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><u>NOTE 10 &#x2014;
GOODWILL</u></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Changes in the carrying
amount of goodwill by segment were as follows:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 12px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="38%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Balance&#xA0;as</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>of&#xA0;June&#xA0;30,</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2010</b></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Acquisitions</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Other</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Balance&#xA0;as</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>of&#xA0;June&#xA0;30,</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2011</b></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Acquisitions</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Other</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Balance&#xA0;as</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>of&#xA0;June&#xA0;30,</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2012</b></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="28">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>(In millions)</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Windows&#xA0;&amp; Windows Live
Division</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">77</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">12</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">89</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>89</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Server and Tools</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">1,118</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">13</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">8</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">1,139</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>7</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(2</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>1,144</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Online Services Division</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">6,373</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">6,373</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>54</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(6,204</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>223</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Microsoft Business
Division</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">4,024</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">4</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">139</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">4,167</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>2,843</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(117</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>6,893</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Entertainment and Devices
Division</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">802</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">30</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(19</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">813</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>4,294</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(4</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>5,103</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="4">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Total</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;12,394</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;47</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;140</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;12,581</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;7,198</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;(6,327)</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;13,452</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">The measurement periods
for purchase price allocations end as soon as information on the
facts and circumstances becomes available, but do not exceed 12
months. Adjustments in purchase price allocations may require a
recasting of the amounts allocated to goodwill retroactive to the
periods in which the acquisitions occurred.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Any change in the
goodwill amounts resulting from foreign currency translations are
presented as &#x201C;other&#x201D; in the above table. Also included
within &#x201C;other&#x201D; are business dispositions and transfers
between business segments due to reorganizations, as applicable.
For fiscal year 2012, a $6.2 billion goodwill impairment charge is
included in &#x201C;other,&#x201D; as discussed further below. This
goodwill impairment charge also represents our accumulated goodwill
impairment as of June&#xA0;30, 2012.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 18px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>Goodwill Impairment</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 6px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">We tested goodwill for
impairment as of May&#xA0;1, 2012 at the reporting unit level using
a discounted cash flow methodology with a peer-based, risk-adjusted
weighted average cost of capital. We believe use of a discounted
cash flow approach is the most reliable indicator of the fair
values of the businesses.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Upon completion of the
annual test, OSD goodwill was determined to be impaired. The
impairment was the result of the OSD unit experiencing slower than
projected growth in search queries and search advertising revenue
per query, slower growth in display revenue, and changes in the
timing and implementation of certain initiatives designed to drive
search and display revenue growth in the future. Although revenues
increased compared to the prior year, the industry is highly
competitive and certain operational challenges have affected our
expectations such that future growth and profitability are lower
than previous estimates. In addition, in the current year, we added
a business-specific risk factor to the weighted average cost of
capital used to calculate the discounted cash flows of OSD in
estimating the fair value of the business. This business-specific
risk factor reflects the increased uncertainty in forecasting
the&#xA0;future performance of OSD.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 1px">
&#xA0;</p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Because our annual test
indicated that OSD&#x2019;s carrying value exceeded its estimated
fair value, a second phase of the goodwill impairment test
(&#x201C;Step 2&#x201D;) was performed specific to OSD. Under Step 2,
the fair value of all OSD assets and liabilities were estimated,
including tangible assets, existing technology, trade names, and
partner relationships for the purpose of deriving an estimate of
the implied fair value of goodwill. The implied fair value of the
goodwill was then compared to the recorded goodwill to determine
the amount of the impairment. Assumptions used in measuring the
value of these assets and liabilities included the discount rates,
royalty rates, and obsolescence rates used in valuing the
intangible assets, and pricing of comparable transactions in the
market in valuing the tangible assets.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">No other instances of
impairment were identified in our May&#xA0;1, 2012 test.</font></p>
</div>
5289000000
-104000000
6193000000
<div>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="center">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><u>NOTE 1 &#x2014;
ACCOUNTING POLICIES</u></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>Accounting
Principles</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">The financial statements
and accompanying notes are prepared in accordance with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States of America
(&#x201C;U.S. GAAP&#x201D;).</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 18px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>Principles of
Consolidation</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">The financial statements
include the accounts of Microsoft Corporation and its subsidiaries.
Intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated. Equity
investments through which we exercise significant influence over
but do not control the investee and are not the primary beneficiary
of the investee&#x2019;s activities are accounted for using the
equity method. Investments through which we are not able to
exercise significant influence over the investee and which do not
have readily determinable fair values are accounted for under the
cost method.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 18px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>Estimates and
Assumptions</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Preparing financial
statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions
that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue,
and expenses. Examples of estimates include: loss contingencies;
product warranties; the fair value of, and/or potential goodwill
impairment for, our reporting units; product life cycles; useful
lives of our tangible and intangible assets; allowances for
doubtful accounts; allowances for product returns; and stock-based
compensation forfeiture rates. Examples of assumptions include: the
elements comprising a software arrangement, including the
distinction between upgrades or enhancements and new products; when
technological feasibility is achieved for our products; the
potential outcome of future tax consequences of events that have
been recognized in our financial statements or tax returns; and
determining when investment impairments are other-than-temporary.
Actual results and outcomes may differ from management&#x2019;s
estimates and assumptions.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 18px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>Foreign Currencies</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Assets and liabilities
recorded in foreign currencies are translated at the exchange rate
on the balance sheet date. Revenue and expenses are translated at
average rates of exchange prevailing during the year. Translation
adjustments resulting from this process are recorded to Other
Comprehensive Income (&#x201C;OCI&#x201D;).</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 18px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>Revenue Recognition</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Revenue is recognized
when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has
occurred, the fee is fixed or determinable, and collectibility is
probable. Revenue generally is recognized net of allowances for
returns and any taxes collected from customers and subsequently
remitted to governmental authorities.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Revenue for retail
packaged products, products licensed to original equipment
manufacturers (&#x201C;OEMs&#x201D;), and perpetual licenses under
certain volume licensing programs generally is recognized as
products are shipped or made available. Revenue for products under
technology guarantee programs, which provide free or significantly
discounted rights to use upcoming new versions of a software
product if an end user licenses existing versions of the product
during the eligibility period, is allocated between existing
product and the new product, and revenue allocated to the new
product is deferred until that version is delivered. The revenue
allocation is based on vendor-specific objective evidence of fair
value of the products.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Certain multi-year
licensing arrangements include a perpetual license for current
products combined with rights to receive future versions of
software products on a when-and-if-available basis (&#x201C;Software
Assurance&#x201D;) and are accounted for as subscriptions, with
billings recorded as unearned revenue and recognized as revenue
ratably over the billing coverage period. Revenue from certain
arrangements that allow for the use of a product or service over a
period of time without taking possession of software are also
accounted for as subscriptions. Revenue for software products where
customers have the right to receive unspecified
upgrades/enhancements on a when-and-if-available basis and for
which vendor-specific objective evidence of fair value does not
exist for the upgrades/enhancements is recognized on a
straight-line basis over the estimated life of the
software.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Revenue related to our
Xbox 360 gaming and entertainment console, Kinect for Xbox 360,
games published by us, and other hardware components is generally
recognized when ownership is transferred to the resellers. Revenue
related to games published by third parties for use on the Xbox 360
platform is recognized when games are manufactured by the game
publishers.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Display advertising
revenue is recognized as advertisements are displayed. Search
advertising revenue is recognized when the ad appears in the search
results or when the action necessary to earn the revenue has been
completed. Consulting services revenue is recognized as services
are rendered, generally based on the negotiated hourly rate in the
consulting arrangement and the number of hours worked during the
period. Consulting revenue for fixed-price services arrangements is
recognized as services are provided. Revenue from prepaid points
redeemable for the purchase of software or services is recognized
upon redemption of the points and delivery of the software or
services.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 18px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>Cost of Revenue</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Cost of revenue includes;
manufacturing and distribution costs for products sold and programs
licensed; operating costs related to product support service
centers and product distribution centers; costs incurred to include
software on PCs sold by OEMs, to drive traffic to our websites, and
to acquire online advertising space (&#x201C;traffic acquisition
costs&#x201D;); costs incurred to support and maintain
Internet-based products and services, including royalties; warranty
costs; inventory valuation adjustments; costs associated with the
delivery of consulting services; and the amortization of
capitalized research and development costs. Capitalized research
and development costs are amortized over the estimated lives of the
products.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 18px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>Product Warranty</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">We provide for the
estimated costs of fulfilling our obligations under hardware and
software warranties at the time the related revenue is recognized.
For hardware warranties, we estimate the costs based on historical
and projected product failure rates, historical and projected
repair costs, and knowledge of specific product failures (if any).
The specific hardware warranty terms and conditions vary depending
upon the product sold and the country in which we do business, but
generally include parts and labor over a period generally ranging
from 90&#xA0;days to three years. For software warranties, we
estimate the costs to provide bug fixes, such as security patches,
over the estimated life of the software. We regularly reevaluate
our estimates to assess the adequacy of the recorded warranty
liabilities and adjust the amounts as necessary.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 18px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>Research and
Development</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Research and development
expenses include payroll, employee benefits, stock-based
compensation expense, and other headcount-related expenses
associated with product development. Research and development
expenses also include third-party development and programming
costs, localization costs incurred to translate software for
international markets, and the amortization of purchased software
code and services content. Such costs related to software
development are included in research and development expense until
the point that technological feasibility is reached, which for our
software products, is generally shortly before the products are
released to manufacturing. Once technological feasibility is
reached, such costs are capitalized and amortized to cost of
revenue over the estimated lives of the products.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 18px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>Sales and Marketing</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Sales and marketing
expenses include payroll, employee benefits, stock-based
compensation expense, and other headcount-related expenses
associated with sales and marketing personnel, and the costs of
advertising, promotions, trade shows, seminars, and other programs.
Advertising costs are expensed as incurred. Advertising expense was
$1.6 billion, $1.9 billion, and $1.6 billion in fiscal years 2012,
2011, and 2010, respectively.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 18px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 1px">
&#xA0;</p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>Stock-Based
Compensation</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">We measure stock-based
compensation cost at the grant date based on the fair value of the
award and recognize it as expense, net of estimated forfeitures,
over the vesting or service period, as applicable, of the stock
award (generally four to five years) using the straight-line
method.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 18px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>Employee Stock Purchase
Plan</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Shares of our common
stock may be purchased by employees at three-month intervals at 90%
of the fair market value of the stock on the last day of each
three-month period. Compensation expense for the employee stock
purchase plan is measured as the discount the employee is entitled
to upon purchase and is recognized in the period of
purchase.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 18px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>Income Taxes</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Income tax expense
includes U.S. and international income taxes, the provision for
U.S. taxes on undistributed earnings of international subsidiaries
not deemed to be permanently invested, and interest and penalties
on uncertain tax positions. Certain income and expenses are not
reported in tax returns and financial statements in the same year.
The tax effect of such temporary differences is reported as
deferred income taxes. Deferred tax assets are reported net of a
valuation allowance when it is more likely than not that a tax
benefit will not be realized. The deferred income taxes are
classified as current or long-term based on the classification of
the related asset or liability.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 18px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>Fair Value
Measurements</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">We account for certain
assets and liabilities at fair value. The hierarchy below lists
three levels of fair value based on the extent to which inputs used
in measuring fair value are observable in the market.&#xA0;We
categorize each of our fair value measurements in one of these
three levels based on the lowest level input that is significant to
the fair value measurement in its entirety. These levels
are:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 6px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td width="5%"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="top" width="2%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#x2022;</font></td>
<td valign="top" width="1%"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left">
<p align="justify"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><i>Level 1</i> &#x2013; inputs are based upon unadjusted quoted
prices for identical instruments traded in active markets. Our
Level 1 non-derivative investments primarily include U.S.
treasuries, domestic and international equities, and actively
traded mutual funds.&#xA0;Our Level 1 derivative assets and
liabilities include those actively traded on exchanges.</font></p>
</td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 6px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td width="5%"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="top" width="2%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#x2022;</font></td>
<td valign="top" width="1%"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left">
<p align="justify"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><i>Level 2</i> &#x2013; inputs are based upon quoted prices for
similar instruments in active markets, quoted prices for identical
or similar instruments in markets that are not active, and
model-based valuation techniques (e.g. the Black-Scholes model) for
which all significant inputs are observable in the market or can be
corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full
term of the assets or liabilities. Where applicable, these models
project future cash flows and discount the future amounts to a
present value using market-based observable inputs including
interest rate curves, foreign exchange rates, and forward and spot
prices for currencies and commodities. Our Level 2 non-derivative
investments consist primarily of corporate notes and bonds,
mortgage-backed securities, agency securities, certificates of
deposit, and commercial paper. Our Level 2 derivative assets and
liabilities primarily include certain over-the-counter option and
swap contracts.</font></p>
</td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 6px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td width="5%"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="top" width="2%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#x2022;</font></td>
<td valign="top" width="1%"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left">
<p align="justify"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><i>Level 3</i> &#x2013; inputs are generally unobservable and
typically reflect management&#x2019;s estimates of assumptions that
market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability.
The fair values are therefore determined using model-based
techniques, including option pricing models and discounted cash
flow models. Our Level 3 non-derivative assets primarily comprise
investments in certain corporate bonds and goodwill when it is
recorded at fair value due to an impairment charge.&#xA0;We value
the Level 3 corporate bonds using internally developed valuation
models, inputs to which include interest rate curves, credit
spreads, stock prices, and volatilities. Our Level 3 derivative
assets and liabilities primarily comprise derivatives for foreign
equities. In certain cases, market-based observable inputs are not
available and we use management judgment to develop assumptions to
determine fair value for these derivatives. Unobservable inputs
used in all of these models are significant to the fair values of
the assets and liabilities.</font></p>
</td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 1px">
&#xA0;</p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">We measure certain
assets, including our cost and equity method investments, at fair
value on a nonrecurring basis when they are deemed to be
other-than-temporarily impaired. The fair values of these
investments are determined based on valuation techniques using the
best information available, and may include quoted market prices,
market comparables, and discounted cash flow projections. An
impairment charge is recorded when the cost of the investment
exceeds its fair value and this condition is determined to be
other-than-temporary.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Our other current
financial assets and our current financial liabilities have fair
values that approximate their carrying values.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 18px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>Financial
Instruments</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">We consider all highly
liquid interest-earning investments with a maturity of three months
or less at the date of purchase to be cash equivalents. The fair
values of these investments approximate their carrying values. In
general, investments with original maturities of greater than three
months and remaining maturities of less than one year are
classified as short-term investments. Investments with maturities
beyond one year may be classified as short-term based on their
highly liquid nature and because such marketable securities
represent the investment of cash that is available for current
operations. All cash equivalents and short-term investments are
classified as available-for-sale and realized gains and losses are
recorded using the specific identification method. Changes in
market value, excluding other-than-temporary impairments, are
reflected in OCI.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Equity and other
investments classified as long-term include both debt and equity
instruments. Debt and publicly-traded equity securities are
classified as available-for-sale and realized gains and losses are
recorded using the specific identification method. Changes in
market value, excluding other-than-temporary impairments, are
reflected in OCI. Common and preferred stock and other investments
that are restricted for more than one year or are not publicly
traded are recorded at cost or using the equity method.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">We lend certain
fixed-income and equity securities to increase investment returns.
The loaned securities continue to be carried as investments on our
balance sheet. Cash and/or security interests are received as
collateral for the loaned securities with the amount determined
based upon the underlying security lent and the creditworthiness of
the borrower. Cash received is recorded as an asset with a
corresponding liability.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Investments are
considered to be impaired when a decline in fair value is judged to
be other-than-temporary. Fair value is calculated based on publicly
available market information or other estimates determined by
management. We employ a systematic methodology on a quarterly basis
that considers available quantitative and qualitative evidence in
evaluating potential impairment of our investments. If the cost of
an investment exceeds its fair value, we evaluate, among other
factors, general market conditions, credit quality of debt
instrument issuers, the duration and extent to which the fair value
is less than cost, and for equity securities, our intent and
ability to hold, or plans to sell, the investment. For fixed-income
securities, we also evaluate whether we have plans to sell the
security or it is more likely than not that we will be required to
sell the security before recovery. We also consider specific
adverse conditions related to the financial health of and business
outlook for the investee, including industry and sector
performance, changes in technology, and operational and financing
cash flow factors. Once a decline in fair value is determined to be
other-than-temporary, an impairment charge is recorded to other
income (expense) and a new cost basis in the investment is
established.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Derivative instruments
are recognized as either assets or liabilities and are measured at
fair value. The accounting for changes in the fair value of a
derivative depends on the intended use of the derivative and the
resulting designation.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">For derivative
instruments designated as fair-value hedges, the gain (loss) is
recognized in earnings in the period of change together with the
offsetting loss or gain on the hedged items attributed to the risk
being hedged. For options designated as fair-value hedges, changes
in the time value are excluded from the assessment of hedge
effectiveness and are recognized in earnings.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 1px">
&#xA0;</p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">For derivative
instruments designated as cash-flow hedges, the effective portion
of the derivative&#x2019;s gain (loss) is initially reported as a
component of OCI and is subsequently recognized in earnings when
the hedged exposure is recognized in earnings. For options
designated as cash-flow hedges, changes in the time value are
excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness and are
recognized in earnings. Gains (losses) on derivatives representing
either hedge components excluded from the assessment of
effectiveness or hedge ineffectiveness are recognized in
earnings.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">For derivative
instruments that are not designated as hedges, gains (losses) from
changes in fair values are primarily recognized in other income
(expense). Other than those derivatives entered into for investment
purposes, such as commodity contracts, the gains (losses) are
generally economically offset by unrealized gains (losses) in the
underlying available-for-sale securities, which are recorded as a
component of OCI until the securities are sold or
other-than-temporarily impaired, at which time the amounts are
moved from OCI into other income (expense).</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 18px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>Allowance for Doubtful
Accounts</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">The allowance for
doubtful accounts reflects our best estimate of probable losses
inherent in the accounts receivable balance. We determine the
allowance based on known troubled accounts, historical experience,
and other currently available evidence. Activity in the allowance
for doubtful accounts was as follows:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 12px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="82%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>(In millions)</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="12">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Year Ended June&#xA0;30,</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2012</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2011</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2010</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Balance, beginning of
period</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;333</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;375</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;451</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Charged to costs and other</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>115</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">14</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">45</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Write-offs</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(59</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(56</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(121</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="4">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Balance, end of period</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>389</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">333</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">375</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 18px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>Inventories</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Inventories are stated at
the lower of cost or market, using the average cost method. Cost
includes materials, labor, and manufacturing overhead related to
the purchase and production of inventories. We regularly review
inventory quantities on hand, future purchase commitments with our
suppliers, and the estimated utility of our inventory. If our
review indicates a reduction in utility below carrying value, we
reduce our inventory to a new cost basis through a charge to cost
of revenue.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 18px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>Property and
Equipment</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Property and equipment is
stated at cost and depreciated using the straight-line method over
the shorter of the estimated useful life of the asset or the lease
term. The estimated useful lives of our property and equipment are
generally as follows: computer software developed or acquired for
internal use, three years; computer equipment, two to three years;
buildings and improvements, five to 15 years; leasehold
improvements, two to 10 years; and furniture and equipment, one to
five years. Land is not depreciated.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 18px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>Goodwill</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Goodwill is tested for
impairment at the reporting unit level (operating segment or one
level below an operating segment) on an annual basis (May 1 for us)
and between annual tests if an event occurs or circumstances change
that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a
reporting unit below its carrying value.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 18px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 1px">
&#xA0;</p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>Intangible Assets</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">All of our intangible
assets are subject to amortization and are amortized using the
straight-line method over their estimated period of benefit,
ranging from one to 15 years. We evaluate the recoverability of
intangible assets periodically by taking into account events or
circumstances that may warrant revised estimates of useful lives or
that indicate the asset may be impaired.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 18px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>Recent Accounting
Guidance</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><i>Recently adopted accounting
guidance</i></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">On July&#xA0;1, 2011, we
adopted guidance issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board
(&#x201C;FASB&#x201D;) on disclosure requirements related to fair
value measurements.&#xA0;The guidance requires the disclosure of
roll-forward activities on purchases, sales, issuances, and
settlements of the assets and liabilities measured using
significant unobservable inputs (Level 3 fair value
measurements).&#xA0;Adoption of this new guidance did not have a
material impact on our financial statements.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">On January&#xA0;1, 2012,
we adopted guidance issued by the FASB on accounting and disclosure
requirements related to fair value measurements.&#xA0;The guidance
limits the highest-and-best-use measure to nonfinancial assets,
permits certain financial assets and liabilities with offsetting
positions in market or counterparty credit risks to be measured at
a net basis, and provides guidance on the applicability of premiums
and discounts.&#xA0;Additionally, the guidance expands the
disclosures on Level 3 inputs by requiring quantitative disclosure
of the unobservable inputs and assumptions, as well as description
of the valuation processes and the sensitivity of the fair value to
changes in unobservable inputs.&#xA0;Adoption of this new guidance
did not have a material impact on our financial
statements.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 18px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><i>Recent accounting guidance not yet
adopted</i></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">In December 2011, the
FASB issued guidance enhancing disclosure requirements about the
nature of an entity&#x2019;s right to offset and related
arrangements associated with its financial instruments and
derivative instruments. The new guidance requires the disclosure of
the gross amounts subject to rights of set-off, amounts offset in
accordance with the accounting standards followed, and the related
net exposure. The new guidance will be effective for us beginning
July&#xA0;1, 2013. Other than requiring additional disclosures, we
do not anticipate material impacts on our financial statements upon
adoption.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">In September 2011, the
FASB issued guidance on testing goodwill for impairment. The new
guidance provides an entity the option to first perform a
qualitative assessment to determine whether it is more likely than
not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its
carrying amount. If an entity determines that this is the case, it
is required to perform the currently prescribed two-step goodwill
impairment test to identify potential goodwill impairment and
measure the amount of goodwill impairment loss to be recognized for
that reporting unit (if any). If an entity determines that the fair
value of a reporting unit is greater than its carrying amount, the
two-step goodwill impairment test is not required. The new guidance
will be effective for us beginning July&#xA0;1, 2012.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">In June 2011, the FASB
issued guidance on presentation of comprehensive income.&#xA0;The
new guidance eliminates the current option to report other
comprehensive income and its components in the statement of changes
in stockholders&#x2019; equity.&#xA0;Instead, an entity will be
required to present either a continuous statement of net income and
other comprehensive income or in two separate but consecutive
statements.&#xA0;This portion of the guidance will be effective for
us beginning July&#xA0;1, 2012 and will require financial statement
presentation changes only. The new guidance also required entities
to present reclassification adjustments out of accumulated other
comprehensive income by component in both the statement in which
net income is presented and the statement in which other
comprehensive income is presented. However, in December 2011, the
FASB issued guidance which indefinitely defers the guidance related
to the presentation of reclassification adjustments.</font></p>
</div>
16000000
<div>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 18px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>Estimates and
Assumptions</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Preparing financial
statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions
that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue,
and expenses. Examples of estimates include: loss contingencies;
product warranties; the fair value of, and/or potential goodwill
impairment for, our reporting units; product life cycles; useful
lives of our tangible and intangible assets; allowances for
doubtful accounts; allowances for product returns; and stock-based
compensation forfeiture rates. Examples of assumptions include: the
elements comprising a software arrangement, including the
distinction between upgrades or enhancements and new products; when
technological feasibility is achieved for our products; the
potential outcome of future tax consequences of events that have
been recognized in our financial statements or tax returns; and
determining when investment impairments are other-than-temporary.
Actual results and outcomes may differ from management&#x2019;s
estimates and assumptions.</font></p>
</div>
410000000
<div>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">During fiscal year 2012,
the following activity occurred under our stock plans:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 12px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="87%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="4%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="4%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Shares</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" nowrap="nowrap" align="right">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Weighted</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Average</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Grant-Date</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Fair
Value</b></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="8">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>(In&#xA0;millions)</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Stock Awards</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Nonvested balance, beginning of
year</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>255</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;23.59</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Granted</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>90</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>24.96</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Vested</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(73</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>24.20</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Forfeited</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(24</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>23.74</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="4">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Nonvested balance, end of
year</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>248</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>23.90</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Shared Performance Stock Awards</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Nonvested balance, beginning of
year</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>32</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>23.76</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Granted</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>20</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>22.88</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Vested</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(15</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>24.69</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Forfeited</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(4</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>23.82</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="4">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Nonvested balance, end of
year</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>33</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>23.93</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">As of June&#xA0;30, 2012,
there was $4.4 billion and $495 million of total unrecognized
compensation costs related to SAs and SPSAs, respectively. These
costs are expected to be recognized over a weighted average period
of 2.9 years and 2.5 years, respectively.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">During fiscal year 2011
and 2010, the following activity occurred under our stock
plans:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 12px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="88%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>(In millions, except fair values)</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2011</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2010</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="8">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Stock Awards</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Awards granted</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">114</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">100</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Weighted average grant-date fair
value</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">22.17</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">23.43</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="8"></td>
<td height="8" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="8" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Shared Performance Stock Awards</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Awards granted</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">18</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">12</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Weighted average grant-date fair
value</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;22.56</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;24.57</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
</div>
-172000000
558000000
-27000000
154000000
<div>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 18px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>Fair Value
Measurements</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">We account for certain
assets and liabilities at fair value. The hierarchy below lists
three levels of fair value based on the extent to which inputs used
in measuring fair value are observable in the market.&#xA0;We
categorize each of our fair value measurements in one of these
three levels based on the lowest level input that is significant to
the fair value measurement in its entirety. These levels
are:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 6px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td width="5%"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="top" width="2%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#x2022;</font></td>
<td valign="top" width="1%"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left">
<p align="justify"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><i>Level 1</i> &#x2013; inputs are based upon unadjusted quoted
prices for identical instruments traded in active markets. Our
Level 1 non-derivative investments primarily include U.S.
treasuries, domestic and international equities, and actively
traded mutual funds.&#xA0;Our Level 1 derivative assets and
liabilities include those actively traded on exchanges.</font></p>
</td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 6px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td width="5%"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="top" width="2%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#x2022;</font></td>
<td valign="top" width="1%"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left">
<p align="justify"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><i>Level 2</i> &#x2013; inputs are based upon quoted prices for
similar instruments in active markets, quoted prices for identical
or similar instruments in markets that are not active, and
model-based valuation techniques (e.g. the Black-Scholes model) for
which all significant inputs are observable in the market or can be
corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full
term of the assets or liabilities. Where applicable, these models
project future cash flows and discount the future amounts to a
present value using market-based observable inputs including
interest rate curves, foreign exchange rates, and forward and spot
prices for currencies and commodities. Our Level 2 non-derivative
investments consist primarily of corporate notes and bonds,
mortgage-backed securities, agency securities, certificates of
deposit, and commercial paper. Our Level 2 derivative assets and
liabilities primarily include certain over-the-counter option and
swap contracts.</font></p>
</td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 6px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td width="5%"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="top" width="2%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#x2022;</font></td>
<td valign="top" width="1%"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left">
<p align="justify"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><i>Level 3</i> &#x2013; inputs are generally unobservable and
typically reflect management&#x2019;s estimates of assumptions that
market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability.
The fair values are therefore determined using model-based
techniques, including option pricing models and discounted cash
flow models. Our Level 3 non-derivative assets primarily comprise
investments in certain corporate bonds and goodwill when it is
recorded at fair value due to an impairment charge.&#xA0;We value
the Level 3 corporate bonds using internally developed valuation
models, inputs to which include interest rate curves, credit
spreads, stock prices, and volatilities. Our Level 3 derivative
assets and liabilities primarily comprise derivatives for foreign
equities. In certain cases, market-based observable inputs are not
available and we use management judgment to develop assumptions to
determine fair value for these derivatives. Unobservable inputs
used in all of these models are significant to the fair values of
the assets and liabilities.</font></p>
</td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 1px">
&#xA0;</p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">We measure certain
assets, including our cost and equity method investments, at fair
value on a nonrecurring basis when they are deemed to be
other-than-temporarily impaired. The fair values of these
investments are determined based on valuation techniques using the
best information available, and may include quoted market prices,
market comparables, and discounted cash flow projections. An
impairment charge is recorded when the cost of the investment
exceeds its fair value and this condition is determined to be
other-than-temporary.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Our other current
financial assets and our current financial liabilities have fair
values that approximate their carrying values.</font></p>
</div>
<div>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">The following tables
present the changes during the periods presented in our Level 3
financial instruments that are measured at fair value on a
recurring basis. The majority of these instruments consist of
investment securities classified as available-for-sale with changes
in fair value included in OCI.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 12px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="80%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="2%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="2%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="2%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="2%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>(In millions)</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Corporate</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Notes&#xA0;and</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Bonds</b></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Common</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>and</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Preferred</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Stock</b></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Derivative</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Assets</b></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Total</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="16">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Year Ended June&#xA0;30, 2012</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Balance, beginning of
period</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;58</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;5</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;20</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;83</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Total realized and unrealized
losses:</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Included in other income
(expense)</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(5</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(5</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Included in other comprehensive
income</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(21</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(21</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Conversions of Level 3 instruments to
Level 1 instruments</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(28</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(15</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(43</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="4">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Balance, end of period</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>9</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>5</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>14</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Change in unrealized gains included
in other income (expense) related to assets held as of
June&#xA0;30, 2012</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="16">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="16"></td>
<td height="16" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="16" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="16" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="16" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>(In millions)</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Corporate<br />
Notes&#xA0;and<br />
Bonds</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Common<br />
and<br />
Preferred<br />
Stock</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Derivative<br />
Assets</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Total</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="16">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Year Ended June&#xA0;30, 2011</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Balance, beginning of
period</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;167</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;5</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;9</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;181</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Total realized and unrealized gains
(losses):</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Included in other income
(expense)</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">39</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">11</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">50</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Included in other comprehensive
income</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(63</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(63</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Purchases, issuances and
settlements</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(85</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(85</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="4">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Balance, end of period</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">58</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">5</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">20</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">83</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Change in unrealized gains included
in other income (expense) related to assets held as of
June&#xA0;30, 2011</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">6</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">11</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">17</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
</div>
<div>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">The activity in other
comprehensive income (loss) and related income tax effects were as
follows:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 12px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="80%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>(In millions)</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="12">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Year Ended June&#xA0;30,</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2012</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2011</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2010</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Net Unrealized Gains (Losses) on Derivatives</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Unrealized gains (losses), net of tax
effects of <b>$127</b>, $(340), and $188</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;236</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(632</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;349</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Reclassification adjustment for
losses (gains) included in net income, net of tax effects of
<b>$10</b>, $2, and $(173)</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>19</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">5</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(322</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="4">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Net unrealized gains (losses) on
derivatives</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>255</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(627</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">27</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="4">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Net Unrealized Gains (Losses) on Investments</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Unrealized gains (losses), net of tax
effects of <b>$(93)</b>, $726, and $263</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(172</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;1,349</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">488</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Reclassification adjustment for gains
included in net income, net of tax effects of <b>$(117)</b>,
$(159), and $(120)</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(218</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(295</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(223</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="4">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Net unrealized gains (losses) on
investments</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(390</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">1,054</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">265</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="4">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Translation adjustments and other,
net of tax effects of <b>$(165)</b>, $205 and $(103)</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(306</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">381</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(206</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="4">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Other comprehensive income
(loss)</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(441</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">808</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">86</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
</table>
</div>
380000000
0
-390000000
200000000
10112000000
2967000000
236000000
127000000
1000000000
<div>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">We repurchased the
following shares of common stock under the above-described
repurchase plan using cash resources:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 12px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="56%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="2%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="2%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="2%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="2%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="2%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="2%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>(In millions)</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Shares</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Amount</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Shares</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Amount</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Shares</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Amount</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="24">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Year Ended June&#xA0;30,</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2012</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2011</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2010</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">First quarter</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>38</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;1,000</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">163</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">4,000</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">58</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">1,445</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Second quarter</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>39</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>1,000</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">188</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">5,000</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">125</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">3,583</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Third quarter</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>31</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>1,000</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">30</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">827</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">67</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">2,000</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Fourth quarter</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>34</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>1,000</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">66</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">1,631</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">130</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">3,808</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="4">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Total</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>142</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>4,000</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">447</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;11,458</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">380</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;10,836</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
</table>
</div>
<div>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Following are the details
of the purchase price allocated to the intangible assets
acquired:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 12px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="87%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>(In millions)</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Weighted<br />
Average&#xA0;Life</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="8">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Marketing-related (trade
names)</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;1,249</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">15&#xA0;years</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Technology-based</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">275</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">5 years</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Customer-related</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">114</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">5 years</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Contract-based</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">10</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">4 years</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="4">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Total</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">1,648</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">13 years</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
</div>
<div>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 18px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="center">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><u>NOTE 16 &#x2014;
COMMITMENTS AND GUARANTEES</u></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>Construction and Operating
Leases</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">We have committed $353
million for constructing new buildings, building improvements, and
leasehold improvements as of June&#xA0;30, 2012.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 1px">
&#xA0;</p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">We have operating leases
for most U.S. and international sales and support offices and
certain equipment. Rental expense for facilities operating leases
was $639 million, $525 million, and $530 million, in fiscal years
2012, 2011, and 2010, respectively. Future minimum rental
commitments under noncancellable facilities operating leases in
place as of June&#xA0;30, 2012 are as follows:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 12px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="91%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="4%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>(In millions)</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="4">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Year Ending June&#xA0;30,</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">2013</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">527</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">2014</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">421</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">2015</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">327</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">2016</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">223</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">2017</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">164</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Thereafter</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">315</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="4">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Total</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;1,977</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 18px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>Indemnifications</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">We provide
indemnifications of varying scope and size to certain customers
against claims of intellectual property infringement made by third
parties arising from the use of our products and certain other
matters. We evaluate estimated losses for these indemnifications,
and we consider such factors as the degree of probability of an
unfavorable outcome and the ability to make a reasonable estimate
of the amount of loss. To date, we have not encountered significant
costs as a result of these obligations and have not accrued any
liabilities related to these indemnifications in our financial
statements.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 18px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>Yahoo! Commercial
Agreement</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">On December&#xA0;4, 2009,
we entered into a 10-year agreement with Yahoo! Inc.
(&#x201C;Yahoo!&#x201D;) whereby Microsoft will provide the exclusive
algorithmic and paid search platform for Yahoo! websites. Microsoft
provided Yahoo! with revenue per search guarantees for a period of
18 months after implementation of the Microsoft search ads platform
in each country, extended by an additional 12 months for the U.S.
and Canada. These guarantees are calculated, paid, and adjusted
periodically and are rate guarantees, not guarantees of search
volume. We estimate the remaining cost of the revenue per search
guarantees during the guarantee period could range up to $120
million.</font></p>
</div>
<div>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 18px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>Sales and Marketing</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Sales and marketing
expenses include payroll, employee benefits, stock-based
compensation expense, and other headcount-related expenses
associated with sales and marketing personnel, and the costs of
advertising, promotions, trade shows, seminars, and other programs.
Advertising costs are expensed as incurred. Advertising expense was
$1.6 billion, $1.9 billion, and $1.6 billion in fiscal years 2012,
2011, and 2010, respectively.</font></p>
</div>
<div>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Unearned revenue by
segment was as follows:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 12px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="88%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>(In millions)</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="8">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>June&#xA0;30,</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2012</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2011</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Windows&#xA0;&amp; Windows Live
Division</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>2,444</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">1,782</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Server and Tools</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>7,445</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">6,315</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Microsoft Business
Division</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>9,015</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">8,187</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Other segments</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>1,155</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">836</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="4">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Total</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;20,059</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;17,120</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
</table>
</div>
<div>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="88%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>(In millions)</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="8">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>June&#xA0;30,</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2012</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2011</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Tax contingencies and other tax
liabilities</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;7,634</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;7,381</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Legal contingencies</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>220</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">276</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Other</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>354</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">415</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="4">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Total</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>8,208</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">8,072</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
</table>
</div>
<div>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 18px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>Financial
Instruments</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">We consider all highly
liquid interest-earning investments with a maturity of three months
or less at the date of purchase to be cash equivalents. The fair
values of these investments approximate their carrying values. In
general, investments with original maturities of greater than three
months and remaining maturities of less than one year are
classified as short-term investments. Investments with maturities
beyond one year may be classified as short-term based on their
highly liquid nature and because such marketable securities
represent the investment of cash that is available for current
operations. All cash equivalents and short-term investments are
classified as available-for-sale and realized gains and losses are
recorded using the specific identification method. Changes in
market value, excluding other-than-temporary impairments, are
reflected in OCI.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Equity and other
investments classified as long-term include both debt and equity
instruments. Debt and publicly-traded equity securities are
classified as available-for-sale and realized gains and losses are
recorded using the specific identification method. Changes in
market value, excluding other-than-temporary impairments, are
reflected in OCI. Common and preferred stock and other investments
that are restricted for more than one year or are not publicly
traded are recorded at cost or using the equity method.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">We lend certain
fixed-income and equity securities to increase investment returns.
The loaned securities continue to be carried as investments on our
balance sheet. Cash and/or security interests are received as
collateral for the loaned securities with the amount determined
based upon the underlying security lent and the creditworthiness of
the borrower. Cash received is recorded as an asset with a
corresponding liability.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Investments are
considered to be impaired when a decline in fair value is judged to
be other-than-temporary. Fair value is calculated based on publicly
available market information or other estimates determined by
management. We employ a systematic methodology on a quarterly basis
that considers available quantitative and qualitative evidence in
evaluating potential impairment of our investments. If the cost of
an investment exceeds its fair value, we evaluate, among other
factors, general market conditions, credit quality of debt
instrument issuers, the duration and extent to which the fair value
is less than cost, and for equity securities, our intent and
ability to hold, or plans to sell, the investment. For fixed-income
securities, we also evaluate whether we have plans to sell the
security or it is more likely than not that we will be required to
sell the security before recovery. We also consider specific
adverse conditions related to the financial health of and business
outlook for the investee, including industry and sector
performance, changes in technology, and operational and financing
cash flow factors. Once a decline in fair value is determined to be
other-than-temporary, an impairment charge is recorded to other
income (expense) and a new cost basis in the investment is
established.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Derivative instruments
are recognized as either assets or liabilities and are measured at
fair value. The accounting for changes in the fair value of a
derivative depends on the intended use of the derivative and the
resulting designation.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">For derivative
instruments designated as fair-value hedges, the gain (loss) is
recognized in earnings in the period of change together with the
offsetting loss or gain on the hedged items attributed to the risk
being hedged. For options designated as fair-value hedges, changes
in the time value are excluded from the assessment of hedge
effectiveness and are recognized in earnings.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 1px">
&#xA0;</p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">For derivative
instruments designated as cash-flow hedges, the effective portion
of the derivative&#x2019;s gain (loss) is initially reported as a
component of OCI and is subsequently recognized in earnings when
the hedged exposure is recognized in earnings. For options
designated as cash-flow hedges, changes in the time value are
excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness and are
recognized in earnings. Gains (losses) on derivatives representing
either hedge components excluded from the assessment of
effectiveness or hedge ineffectiveness are recognized in
earnings.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">For derivative
instruments that are not designated as hedges, gains (losses) from
changes in fair values are primarily recognized in other income
(expense). Other than those derivatives entered into for investment
purposes, such as commodity contracts, the gains (losses) are
generally economically offset by unrealized gains (losses) in the
underlying available-for-sale securities, which are recorded as a
component of OCI until the securities are sold or
other-than-temporarily impaired, at which time the amounts are
moved from OCI into other income (expense).</font></p>
</div>
<div>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Activity in the allowance
for doubtful accounts was as follows:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 12px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="82%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>(In millions)</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="12">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Year Ended June&#xA0;30,</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2012</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2011</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2010</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Balance, beginning of
period</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;333</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;375</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;451</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Charged to costs and other</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>115</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">14</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">45</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Write-offs</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(59</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(56</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(121</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="4">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Balance, end of period</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>389</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">333</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">375</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
</table>
</div>
<div>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">The following table
reconciles the total Net Fair Value of assets above to the balance
sheet presentation of these same assets in Note 4 &#x2013;
Investments.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 12px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="88%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>(In millions)</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="8">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>June&#xA0;30,</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2012</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2011</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Net fair value of assets measured at
fair value on a recurring basis</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;69,623</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;61,058</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Cash</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>2,019</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">1,648</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Common and preferred stock measured
at fair value on a nonrecurring basis</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>313</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">334</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Other investments measured at fair
value on a nonrecurring basis</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>1,043</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">650</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Less derivative assets classified as
other current assets</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(185</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(54</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Other</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>3</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">1</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="4">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Recorded basis of investment
components</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>72,816</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">63,637</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
</table>
</div>
<div>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 18px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>Employee Stock Purchase
Plan</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Shares of our common
stock may be purchased by employees at three-month intervals at 90%
of the fair market value of the stock on the last day of each
three-month period. Compensation expense for the employee stock
purchase plan is measured as the discount the employee is entitled
to upon purchase and is recognized in the period of
purchase.</font></p>
</div>
<div>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">In fiscal year 2012, our
Board of Directors declared the following dividends:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 12px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="44%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Declaration Date</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Dividend</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Per&#xA0;Share</b></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Record Date</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Total&#xA0;Amount</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Payment&#xA0;Date</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="16">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>(In millions)</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>September 20, 2011</b></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;0.20</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>November&#xA0;17,&#xA0;2011</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;1,683</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>December&#xA0;8,&#xA0;2011</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>December 14, 2011</b></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0.20</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>February 16, 2012</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>1,683</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>March 8, 2012</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>March 13, 2012</b></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0.20</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>May 17, 2012</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>1,678</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>June 14, 2012</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>June 13, 2012</b></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0.20</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>August 16, 2012</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>1,676</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>September&#xA0;13,&#xA0;2012</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="left" size="1" noshade="noshade" />
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">The dividend declared on
June&#xA0;13, 2012 will be paid after the filing date of this
report on Form 10-K and was included in other current liabilities
as of June&#xA0;30, 2012.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">In fiscal year 2011, our
Board of Directors declared the following dividends:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 12px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="43%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="4%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="4%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="4%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="4%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Declaration Date</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Dividend</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Per&#xA0;Share</b></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Record Date</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Total&#xA0;Amount</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Payment&#xA0;Date</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="16">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>(In millions)</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">September 21, 2010</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;0.16</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">November&#xA0;18,&#xA0;2010</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;1,363</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">December&#xA0;9,&#xA0;2010</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">December 15, 2010</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0.16</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">February 17, 2011</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">1,349</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">March 10, 2011</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">March 14, 2011</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0.16</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">May 19, 2011</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">1,350</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">June 9, 2011</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">June 15, 2011</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0.16</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">August 18, 2011</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">1,341</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">September&#xA0;8,&#xA0;2011</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
</div>
<div>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">The components of
property and equipment were as follows:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 12px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="88%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="8"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>(In millions)</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="8">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>June&#xA0;30,</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2012</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2011</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Land</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>528</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">533</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Buildings and improvements</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>6,768</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">6,521</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Leasehold improvements</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>2,550</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">2,345</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Computer equipment and
software</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>7,298</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">6,601</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Furniture and equipment</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>2,087</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">1,991</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="4">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Total, at cost</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;19,231</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;17,991</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Accumulated depreciation</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(10,962</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(9,829</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="4">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Total, net</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>8,269</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">8,162</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
</table>
</div>
<div>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 18px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><i>Activity for all stock
plans</i></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">The fair value of each
award was estimated on the date of grant using the following
assumptions:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 12px">
&#xA0;</p>
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="left" size="1" noshade="noshade" />
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="79%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Year Ended June&#xA0;30,</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2012</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2011</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2010</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Dividends per share (quarterly
amounts)</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;0.16&#xA0;-&#xA0;$&#xA0;&#xA0;0.20</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;0.13&#xA0;-&#xA0;$&#xA0;&#xA0;0.16</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0.13</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Interest rates range</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0.7%&#xA0;-&#xA0;1.7%</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">1.1%&#xA0;-&#xA0;2.4%</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;2.1%&#xA0;-&#xA0;2.9%</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
</div>
<div>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">The components of investments,
including associated derivatives, were as follows:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 12px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="34%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>(In millions)</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Cost&#xA0;Basis</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Unrealized</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Gains</b></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Unrealized</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Losses</b></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Recorded</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Basis</b></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Cash</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>and
Cash</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Equivalents</b></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Short-term</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Investments</b></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Equity</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>and
Other</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Investments</b></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="28">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>June&#xA0;30, 2012</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Cash</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>2,019</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>2,019</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>2,019</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Mutual funds</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>820</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>820</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>820</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Commercial paper</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>96</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>96</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>96</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Certificates of deposit</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>744</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>744</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>342</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>402</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">U.S. government and
agency&#xA0;securities</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>47,178</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>130</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(2</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>47,306</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>561</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>46,745</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Foreign government bonds</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>1,741</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>18</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(29</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>1,730</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>575</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>1,155</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Mortgage-backed securities</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>1,816</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>82</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(2</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>1,896</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>1,896</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Corporate notes and bonds</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>7,799</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>224</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(15</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>8,008</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>2,525</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>5,483</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Municipal securities</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>358</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>58</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>416</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>416</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Common and preferred stock</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>6,965</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>2,204</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(436</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>8,733</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>8,733</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Other investments</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>1,048</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>1,048</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>5</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>1,043</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="4">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Total</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;70,584</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;2,716</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;(484</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;72,816</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;6,938</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;56,102</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;9,776</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="16"></td>
<td height="16" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="16" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="16" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="16" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="16" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="16" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="16" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>(In millions)</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Cost&#xA0;Basis</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Unrealized</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Gains</b></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Unrealized</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Losses</b></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Recorded</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Basis</b></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Cash</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>and&#xA0;Cash</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Equivalents</b></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Short-term</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Investments</b></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Equity</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>and&#xA0;Other</b></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Investments</b></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="28">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>June&#xA0;30, 2011</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Cash</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">1,648</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">1,648</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">1,648</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Mutual funds</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">1,752</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">1,752</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">1,752</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Commercial paper</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">639</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">639</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">414</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">225</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Certificates of deposit</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">598</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">598</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">372</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">226</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">U.S. government and
agency&#xA0;securities</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">33,607</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">162</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(7</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">33,762</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">2,049</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">31,713</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Foreign government bonds</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">658</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">11</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(2</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">667</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">667</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Mortgage-backed securities</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">2,307</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">121</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(4</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">2,424</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">2,424</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Corporate notes and bonds</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">10,575</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">260</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(11</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">10,824</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">3,375</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">7,449</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Municipal securities</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">441</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">15</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(2</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">454</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">454</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Common and preferred stock</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">7,925</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">2,483</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(193</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">10,215</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">10,215</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Other investments</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">654</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">654</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">4</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">650</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="4">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Total</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;60,804</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;3,052</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;(219</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;63,637</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;9,610</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;43,162</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;10,865</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
</table>
</div>
<div>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Following are the fair
values of stock plan awards vested during the periods
reported:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 12px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="79%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>(In millions)</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="12">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2012</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2011</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2010</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Total vest-date fair value of stock
awards vested</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;1,971</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;1,521</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;1,358</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Total vest-date fair value of shared
performance stock awards vested</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>388</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">289</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">227</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
</div>
<div>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">During the periods
reported, the following stock option exercise activity
occurred:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 12px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="79%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>(In millions)</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="12">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2012</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2011</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2010</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Total intrinsic value of stock
options exercised</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>456</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">222</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">365</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Cash received from stock option
exercises</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;1,410</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;1,954</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;1,839</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Tax benefit realized from stock
option exercises</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>160</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">77</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">126</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
</div>
25.03
0.50
0.097
0.73
0.0030
0.00
1.50
0.20
The SA portion of the award vests one-quarter immediately after the award is approved following fiscal year-end and one-quarter on August 31 of each of the following three years.
0.80
0.25
0.25
4
-5535000000
-5090000000
-486000000
41000000
-273000000
7459000000
2000000
18696000000
7000000
15688000000
117000000
23963000000
2843000000
365000000
4000000
9585000000
4294000000
-8122000000
6204000000
2934000000
54000000
11908000000
0
18818000000
0
1400000000
-231000000
<div>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Gains (losses) from
changes in fair values of derivatives that are not designated as
hedges are primarily recognized in other income (expense). These
amounts are shown in the table below, with the exception of gains
(losses) on derivatives presented in income statement line items
other than other income (expense), which were immaterial for the
periods presented. Other than those derivatives entered into for
investment purposes, such as commodity contracts, the gains
(losses) below are generally economically offset by unrealized
gains (losses) in the underlying available-for-sale
securities.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 12px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="81%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>(In millions)</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="12">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Year Ended June&#xA0;30,</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2012</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2011</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2010</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Foreign exchange contracts</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(119</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(27</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">106</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Equity contracts</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(85</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">35</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">12</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Interest-rate contracts</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>93</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">19</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(4</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Credit contracts</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(7</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">24</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">22</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Commodity contracts</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(121</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">148</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(1</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="4">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Total</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;(239</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;199</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;135</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
</table>
</div>
2013-06-15
2040-10-01
2015-09-25
2013-09-27
2014-06-01
2019-06-01
2020-10-01
2039-06-01
2041-02-08
2021-02-08
2016-02-08
P3Y
P4Y
P1Y
0.16
0.00
1996
2007
2004
P2Y
P5Y
P1Y
P2Y
P5Y
P15Y
0.20
0.50
1.50
2011
2011
2006
P10Y
P15Y
P5Y
P3Y
P3Y
<div>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">We recognized the
following gains (losses) on foreign exchange contracts designated
as cash flow hedges (our only cash flow hedges during the periods
presented):</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 12px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="79%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>(In millions)</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="12">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Year Ended June&#xA0;30,</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2012</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2011</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2010</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Effective Portion</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Gain (loss) recognized in OCI, net of
tax effect of <b>$127,</b> $(340) and $188</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;236</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;(632</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;349</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Gain (loss) reclassified from OCI
into revenue</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(27</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(7</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">495</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Amount Excluded from Effectiveness Assessment and
Ineffective Portion</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Loss recognized in other income
(expense)</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(231</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(276</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(174</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
</div>
<div>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 12px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="justify">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">We recognized in other
income (expense) the following gains (losses) on contracts
designated as fair value hedges and their related hedged
items:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 12px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="81%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="4%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="4%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="4%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>(In millions)</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="12">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Year Ended June&#xA0;30,</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2012</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2011</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>2010</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="1"><b>Foreign Exchange Contracts</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="2"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="5"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
<td height="5" colspan="4"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Derivatives</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;52</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(92</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(57</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Hedged items</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>(50</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;85</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;60</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom" colspan="4">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" align="right" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #000000" size="1" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="1" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">Total</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>2</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">(7</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">3</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: ARIAL" size="2">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" align="right" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #595959" size="3" noshade="noshade" /></td>
<td valign="bottom">
<hr style="COLOR: #ffffff" align="left" size="3" width="0" noshade="noshade" /></td>
</tr>
</table>
</div>
2244000000
1714000000
1924000000
-75000000
-3000000
16537000000
255000000
2918000000
-306000000
6721000000
16978000000
-390000000
59000000
115000000
20000000
-15000000
388000000
24.69
22.88
P2Y6M
23.82
-4000000
0.12
0.90
9.33
6000000
90000000
-73000000
1971000000
24.20
24.96
P2Y10M24D
23.74
P5Y
-24000000
-7000000
93000000
-85000000
50000000
2000000
-119000000
-52000000
-121000000
17320000000
8045000000
3181000000
4670000000
3976000000
14232000000
22299000000
0
21000000
0
28000000
0
0
0
0
5000000
0
0
15000000
P7Y
P5Y
P15Y
P7Y
2000000000
67000000
0.61
2011-06-09
0.16
827000000
16428000000
1350000000
0.62
30000000
2011-05-19
12531000000
2011-03-14
5232000000
-461000000
0.60
2012-06-14
0.20
1000000000
17407000000
1678000000
0.61
31000000
2012-05-17
13455000000
2012-03-13
5108000000
3808000000
130000000
0.69
2011-09-08
0.16
1631000000
0.07
17367000000
1341000000
0.70
66000000
2011-08-18
13659000000
2011-06-15
5874000000
-0.06
2012-09-13
0.20
1000000000
18059000000
1676000000
-0.06
34000000
2012-08-16
13896000000
2012-06-13
-492000000
6193000000
0.73
1445000000
58000000
3583000000
125000000
0.62
2010-12-09
0.16
4000000000
16195000000
1363000000
0.63
163000000
2010-11-18
13056000000
2010-09-21
5410000000
0.77
2011-03-10
0.16
5000000000
19953000000
1349000000
0.78
188000000
2011-02-17
15120000000
2010-12-15
6634000000
0.68
2011-12-08
0.20
1000000000
17372000000
1683000000
0.68
38000000
2011-11-17
13595000000
2011-09-20
5738000000
0.78
2012-03-08
0.20
1000000000
20885000000
1683000000
0.79
39000000
2012-02-16
15247000000
2011-12-14
6624000000


0000789019


2011-10-01
2011-12-31




0000789019


2011-07-01
2011-09-30




0000789019


2010-10-01
2010-12-31




0000789019


2010-07-01
2010-09-30




0000789019


2009-10-01
2009-12-31




0000789019


2009-07-01
2009-09-30




0000789019


2012-04-01
2012-06-30




0000789019


2011-04-01
2011-06-30




0000789019


2010-04-01
2010-06-30




0000789019


2012-01-01
2012-03-31




0000789019

us-gaap:InternalRevenueServiceIRSMember



2011-01-01
2011-03-31




0000789019


2011-01-01
2011-03-31




0000789019


2010-01-01
2010-03-31




0000789019

msft:TechnologyBasedIntangibleAssetsMember



2011-07-01
2012-06-30




0000789019

msft:MarketingIntangiblesMember



2011-07-01
2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:CustomerRelationshipsMember



2011-07-01
2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:ContractualRightsMember



2011-07-01
2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:DerivativeFinancialInstrumentsAssetsMember



2011-07-01
2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:EquitySecuritiesMember



2011-07-01
2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:CorporateDebtSecuritiesMember



2011-07-01
2012-06-30




0000789019

msft:MicrosoftOfficeSystemMember



2011-07-01
2012-06-30




0000789019

msft:ServerProductsAndToolsMember



2011-07-01
2012-06-30




0000789019

msft:ConsultingAndProductSupportServicesMember



2011-07-01
2012-06-30




0000789019

msft:OtherProductsAndServicesMember



2011-07-01
2012-06-30




0000789019

msft:AdvertisingMember



2011-07-01
2012-06-30




0000789019

msft:XboxThreeSixtyPlatformMember



2011-07-01
2012-06-30




0000789019

msft:WindowsPersonalComputerOperatingSystemsMember



2011-07-01
2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:CommodityContractMember



2011-07-01
2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:ForeignExchangeContractMember



2011-07-01
2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:EquityContractMember



2011-07-01
2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:InterestRateContractMember



2011-07-01
2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:CreditRiskContractMember



2011-07-01
2012-06-30




0000789019

msft:UnvestedStockAwardsMember



2011-07-01
2012-06-30




0000789019

msft:OptionsBusinessCombinationsMember



2011-07-01
2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:EmployeeStockMember



2011-07-01
2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:PerformanceSharesMember



2011-07-01
2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:AllowanceForDoubtfulAccountsMember



2011-07-01
2012-06-30




0000789019

msft:RetainedEarningsAccumulatedDeficitAndAccumulatedOtherComprehensiveIncomeLossNetOfTaxMember



2011-07-01
2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:CommonStockIncludingAdditionalPaidInCapitalMember



2011-07-01
2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:FairValueHedgingMember



2011-07-01
2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:CashFlowHedgingMember



2011-07-01
2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:SoftwareMember
msft:AverageMember



2011-07-01
2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:ComputerEquipmentMember
us-gaap:MaximumMember



2011-07-01
2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:FurnitureAndFixturesMember
us-gaap:MaximumMember



2011-07-01
2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:BuildingAndBuildingImprovementsMember
us-gaap:MaximumMember



2011-07-01
2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:LeaseholdImprovementsMember
us-gaap:MaximumMember



2011-07-01
2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:InternalRevenueServiceIRSMember
us-gaap:MaximumMember



2011-07-01
2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:ForeignCountryMember
us-gaap:MaximumMember



2011-07-01
2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:PerformanceSharesMember
us-gaap:MaximumMember



2011-07-01
2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:MaximumMember



2011-07-01
2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:ComputerEquipmentMember
us-gaap:MinimumMember



2011-07-01
2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:FurnitureAndFixturesMember
us-gaap:MinimumMember



2011-07-01
2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:BuildingAndBuildingImprovementsMember
us-gaap:MinimumMember



2011-07-01
2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:LeaseholdImprovementsMember
us-gaap:MinimumMember



2011-07-01
2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:InternalRevenueServiceIRSMember
us-gaap:MinimumMember



2011-07-01
2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:ForeignCountryMember
us-gaap:MinimumMember



2011-07-01
2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:PerformanceSharesMember
us-gaap:MinimumMember



2011-07-01
2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:MinimumMember



2011-07-01
2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:OptionMember
us-gaap:ForwardContractsMember



2011-07-01
2012-06-30




0000789019

msft:NotesTwoPointFivePercentDueFebruaryEightTwentySixteenMember



2011-07-01
2012-06-30




0000789019

msft:NotesFourPointZeroPercentDueFebruaryEightTwentyTwentyOneMember



2011-07-01
2012-06-30




0000789019

msft:NotesFivePointThreePercentDueFebruaryEightTwentyFortyOneMember



2011-07-01
2012-06-30




0000789019

msft:NotesFivePointTwoPercentDueJuneOneTwentyThirtyNineMember



2011-07-01
2012-06-30




0000789019

msft:NotesThreePointZeroPercentDueOctoberOneTwentyTwentyMember



2011-07-01
2012-06-30




0000789019

msft:NotesFourPointTwoPercentDueJuneOneTwentyNineteenMember



2011-07-01
2012-06-30




0000789019

msft:NotesTwoPointNineFivePercentDueJuneOneTwentyFourteenMember



2011-07-01
2012-06-30




0000789019

msft:NotesZeroPointEightSevenFivePercentDueSeptemberTwentySevenTwentyThirteenMember



2011-07-01
2012-06-30




0000789019

msft:NotesOnePointSixTwoFivePercentDueSeptemberTwentyFiveTwentyFifteenMember



2011-07-01
2012-06-30




0000789019

msft:NotesFourPointFivePercentDueOctoberOneTwentyFortyMember



2011-07-01
2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:ConvertibleDebtMember



2011-07-01
2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:NondesignatedMember



2011-07-01
2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:ForeignExchangeContractMember
us-gaap:DesignatedAsHedgingInstrumentMember



2011-07-01
2012-06-30




0000789019

msft:AntitrustUnfairCompetitionAndOverchargeClassActionsMember
country:US



2011-07-01
2012-06-30




0000789019

msft:WindowsAndWindowsLiveMember



2011-07-01
2012-06-30




0000789019

msft:OnlineServicesDivisionMember



2011-07-01
2012-06-30




0000789019

msft:EntertainmentAndDevicesDivisionMember



2011-07-01
2012-06-30




0000789019

msft:MicrosoftBusinessDivisionMember



2011-07-01
2012-06-30




0000789019

msft:ServerAndToolsMember



2011-07-01
2012-06-30




0000789019

msft:UnallocatedAndOtherReportableSegmentMember



2011-07-01
2012-06-30




0000789019

msft:AllOtherMember
us-gaap:MaterialReconcilingItemsMember



2011-07-01
2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:SalesRevenueSegmentMember
us-gaap:MaterialReconcilingItemsMember



2011-07-01
2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:UnallocatedAmountToSegmentMember
us-gaap:MaterialReconcilingItemsMember



2011-07-01
2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:MaterialReconcilingItemsMember



2011-07-01
2012-06-30




0000789019

msft:OtherAcquiredEntitiesMember



2011-07-01
2012-06-30




0000789019

msft:PeriodTwoMember
msft:UnvestedStockAwardsMember
msft:ExecutiveOfficerIncentivePlanMember



2011-07-01
2012-06-30




0000789019

msft:PeriodOneMember
msft:UnvestedStockAwardsMember
msft:ExecutiveOfficerIncentivePlanMember



2011-07-01
2012-06-30




0000789019

msft:UnvestedStockAwardsMember
msft:ExecutiveOfficerIncentivePlanMember



2011-07-01
2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:CashMember
msft:ExecutiveOfficerIncentivePlanMember



2011-07-01
2012-06-30




0000789019

msft:ExecutiveOfficerIncentivePlanMember
us-gaap:MaximumMember



2011-07-01
2012-06-30




0000789019

msft:ExecutiveOfficerIncentivePlanMember
us-gaap:MinimumMember



2011-07-01
2012-06-30




0000789019

msft:ExecutiveOfficerIncentivePlanMember



2011-07-01
2012-06-30




0000789019


2011-07-01
2012-06-30




0000789019

msft:TechnologyBasedIntangibleAssetsMember



2010-07-01
2011-06-30




0000789019

msft:MarketingIntangiblesMember



2010-07-01
2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:CustomerRelationshipsMember



2010-07-01
2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:DerivativeFinancialInstrumentsAssetsMember



2010-07-01
2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:EquitySecuritiesMember



2010-07-01
2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:CorporateDebtSecuritiesMember



2010-07-01
2011-06-30




0000789019

msft:MicrosoftOfficeSystemMember



2010-07-01
2011-06-30




0000789019

msft:ServerProductsAndToolsMember



2010-07-01
2011-06-30




0000789019

msft:ConsultingAndProductSupportServicesMember



2010-07-01
2011-06-30




0000789019

msft:OtherProductsAndServicesMember



2010-07-01
2011-06-30




0000789019

msft:AdvertisingMember



2010-07-01
2011-06-30




0000789019

msft:XboxThreeSixtyPlatformMember



2010-07-01
2011-06-30




0000789019

msft:WindowsPersonalComputerOperatingSystemsMember



2010-07-01
2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:CommodityContractMember



2010-07-01
2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:ForeignExchangeContractMember



2010-07-01
2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:EquityContractMember



2010-07-01
2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:InterestRateContractMember



2010-07-01
2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:CreditRiskContractMember



2010-07-01
2011-06-30




0000789019

msft:UnvestedStockAwardsMember



2010-07-01
2011-06-30




0000789019

msft:OptionsBusinessCombinationsMember



2010-07-01
2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:EmployeeStockMember



2010-07-01
2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:PerformanceSharesMember



2010-07-01
2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:AllowanceForDoubtfulAccountsMember



2010-07-01
2011-06-30




0000789019

msft:RetainedEarningsAccumulatedDeficitAndAccumulatedOtherComprehensiveIncomeLossNetOfTaxMember



2010-07-01
2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:CommonStockIncludingAdditionalPaidInCapitalMember



2010-07-01
2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:ComputerEquipmentMember
us-gaap:MaximumMember



2010-07-01
2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:FurnitureAndFixturesMember
us-gaap:MaximumMember



2010-07-01
2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:BuildingAndBuildingImprovementsMember
us-gaap:MaximumMember



2010-07-01
2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:LeaseholdImprovementsMember
us-gaap:MaximumMember



2010-07-01
2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:PerformanceSharesMember
us-gaap:MaximumMember



2010-07-01
2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:MaximumMember



2010-07-01
2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:ComputerEquipmentMember
us-gaap:MinimumMember



2010-07-01
2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:FurnitureAndFixturesMember
us-gaap:MinimumMember



2010-07-01
2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:BuildingAndBuildingImprovementsMember
us-gaap:MinimumMember



2010-07-01
2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:LeaseholdImprovementsMember
us-gaap:MinimumMember



2010-07-01
2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:PerformanceSharesMember
us-gaap:MinimumMember



2010-07-01
2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:MinimumMember



2010-07-01
2011-06-30




0000789019

msft:NotesTwoPointFivePercentDueFebruaryEightTwentySixteenMember



2010-07-01
2011-06-30




0000789019

msft:NotesFourPointZeroPercentDueFebruaryEightTwentyTwentyOneMember



2010-07-01
2011-06-30




0000789019

msft:NotesFivePointThreePercentDueFebruaryEightTwentyFortyOneMember



2010-07-01
2011-06-30




0000789019

msft:NotesFivePointTwoPercentDueJuneOneTwentyThirtyNineMember



2010-07-01
2011-06-30




0000789019

msft:NotesThreePointZeroPercentDueOctoberOneTwentyTwentyMember



2010-07-01
2011-06-30




0000789019

msft:NotesFourPointTwoPercentDueJuneOneTwentyNineteenMember



2010-07-01
2011-06-30




0000789019

msft:NotesTwoPointNineFivePercentDueJuneOneTwentyFourteenMember



2010-07-01
2011-06-30




0000789019

msft:NotesZeroPointEightSevenFivePercentDueSeptemberTwentySevenTwentyThirteenMember



2010-07-01
2011-06-30




0000789019

msft:NotesOnePointSixTwoFivePercentDueSeptemberTwentyFiveTwentyFifteenMember



2010-07-01
2011-06-30




0000789019

msft:NotesFourPointFivePercentDueOctoberOneTwentyFortyMember



2010-07-01
2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:ConvertibleDebtMember



2010-07-01
2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:ForeignExchangeContractMember
us-gaap:DesignatedAsHedgingInstrumentMember



2010-07-01
2011-06-30




0000789019

msft:WindowsAndWindowsLiveMember



2010-07-01
2011-06-30




0000789019

msft:OnlineServicesDivisionMember



2010-07-01
2011-06-30




0000789019

msft:EntertainmentAndDevicesDivisionMember



2010-07-01
2011-06-30




0000789019

msft:MicrosoftBusinessDivisionMember



2010-07-01
2011-06-30




0000789019

msft:ServerAndToolsMember



2010-07-01
2011-06-30




0000789019

msft:UnallocatedAndOtherReportableSegmentMember



2010-07-01
2011-06-30




0000789019

msft:AllOtherMember
us-gaap:MaterialReconcilingItemsMember



2010-07-01
2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:SalesRevenueSegmentMember
us-gaap:MaterialReconcilingItemsMember



2010-07-01
2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:UnallocatedAmountToSegmentMember
us-gaap:MaterialReconcilingItemsMember



2010-07-01
2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:MaterialReconcilingItemsMember



2010-07-01
2011-06-30




0000789019

msft:OtherAcquiredEntitiesMember



2010-07-01
2011-06-30




0000789019

msft:PeriodTwoMember
msft:UnvestedStockAwardsMember
msft:ExecutiveOfficerIncentivePlanMember



2010-07-01
2011-06-30




0000789019

msft:PeriodOneMember
msft:UnvestedStockAwardsMember
msft:ExecutiveOfficerIncentivePlanMember



2010-07-01
2011-06-30




0000789019

msft:UnvestedStockAwardsMember
msft:ExecutiveOfficerIncentivePlanMember



2010-07-01
2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:CashMember
msft:ExecutiveOfficerIncentivePlanMember



2010-07-01
2011-06-30




0000789019

msft:ExecutiveOfficerIncentivePlanMember
us-gaap:MaximumMember



2010-07-01
2011-06-30




0000789019

msft:ExecutiveOfficerIncentivePlanMember
us-gaap:MinimumMember



2010-07-01
2011-06-30




0000789019

msft:ExecutiveOfficerIncentivePlanMember



2010-07-01
2011-06-30




0000789019


2010-07-01
2011-06-30




0000789019

msft:MicrosoftOfficeSystemMember



2009-07-01
2010-06-30




0000789019

msft:ServerProductsAndToolsMember



2009-07-01
2010-06-30




0000789019

msft:ConsultingAndProductSupportServicesMember



2009-07-01
2010-06-30




0000789019

msft:OtherProductsAndServicesMember



2009-07-01
2010-06-30




0000789019

msft:AdvertisingMember



2009-07-01
2010-06-30




0000789019

msft:XboxThreeSixtyPlatformMember



2009-07-01
2010-06-30




0000789019

msft:WindowsPersonalComputerOperatingSystemsMember



2009-07-01
2010-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:CommodityContractMember



2009-07-01
2010-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:ForeignExchangeContractMember



2009-07-01
2010-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:EquityContractMember



2009-07-01
2010-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:InterestRateContractMember



2009-07-01
2010-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:CreditRiskContractMember



2009-07-01
2010-06-30




0000789019

msft:UnvestedStockAwardsMember



2009-07-01
2010-06-30




0000789019

msft:OptionsBusinessCombinationsMember



2009-07-01
2010-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:EmployeeStockMember



2009-07-01
2010-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:PerformanceSharesMember



2009-07-01
2010-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:AllowanceForDoubtfulAccountsMember



2009-07-01
2010-06-30




0000789019

msft:RetainedEarningsAccumulatedDeficitAndAccumulatedOtherComprehensiveIncomeLossNetOfTaxMember



2009-07-01
2010-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:CommonStockIncludingAdditionalPaidInCapitalMember



2009-07-01
2010-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:ComputerEquipmentMember
us-gaap:MaximumMember



2009-07-01
2010-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:FurnitureAndFixturesMember
us-gaap:MaximumMember



2009-07-01
2010-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:BuildingAndBuildingImprovementsMember
us-gaap:MaximumMember



2009-07-01
2010-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:LeaseholdImprovementsMember
us-gaap:MaximumMember



2009-07-01
2010-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:PerformanceSharesMember
us-gaap:MaximumMember



2009-07-01
2010-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:MaximumMember



2009-07-01
2010-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:ComputerEquipmentMember
us-gaap:MinimumMember



2009-07-01
2010-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:FurnitureAndFixturesMember
us-gaap:MinimumMember



2009-07-01
2010-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:BuildingAndBuildingImprovementsMember
us-gaap:MinimumMember



2009-07-01
2010-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:LeaseholdImprovementsMember
us-gaap:MinimumMember



2009-07-01
2010-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:PerformanceSharesMember
us-gaap:MinimumMember



2009-07-01
2010-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:MinimumMember



2009-07-01
2010-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:ForeignExchangeContractMember
us-gaap:DesignatedAsHedgingInstrumentMember



2009-07-01
2010-06-30




0000789019

msft:WindowsAndWindowsLiveMember



2009-07-01
2010-06-30




0000789019

msft:OnlineServicesDivisionMember



2009-07-01
2010-06-30




0000789019

msft:EntertainmentAndDevicesDivisionMember



2009-07-01
2010-06-30




0000789019

msft:MicrosoftBusinessDivisionMember



2009-07-01
2010-06-30




0000789019

msft:ServerAndToolsMember



2009-07-01
2010-06-30




0000789019

msft:UnallocatedAndOtherReportableSegmentMember



2009-07-01
2010-06-30




0000789019

msft:AllOtherMember
us-gaap:MaterialReconcilingItemsMember



2009-07-01
2010-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:SalesRevenueSegmentMember
us-gaap:MaterialReconcilingItemsMember



2009-07-01
2010-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:UnallocatedAmountToSegmentMember
us-gaap:MaterialReconcilingItemsMember



2009-07-01
2010-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:MaterialReconcilingItemsMember



2009-07-01
2010-06-30




0000789019

msft:OtherAcquiredEntitiesMember



2009-07-01
2010-06-30




0000789019

msft:PeriodTwoMember
msft:UnvestedStockAwardsMember
msft:ExecutiveOfficerIncentivePlanMember



2009-07-01
2010-06-30




0000789019

msft:PeriodOneMember
msft:UnvestedStockAwardsMember
msft:ExecutiveOfficerIncentivePlanMember



2009-07-01
2010-06-30




0000789019

msft:UnvestedStockAwardsMember
msft:ExecutiveOfficerIncentivePlanMember



2009-07-01
2010-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:CashMember
msft:ExecutiveOfficerIncentivePlanMember



2009-07-01
2010-06-30




0000789019

msft:ExecutiveOfficerIncentivePlanMember
us-gaap:MaximumMember



2009-07-01
2010-06-30




0000789019

msft:ExecutiveOfficerIncentivePlanMember
us-gaap:MinimumMember



2009-07-01
2010-06-30




0000789019

msft:ExecutiveOfficerIncentivePlanMember



2009-07-01
2010-06-30




0000789019


2009-07-01
2010-06-30




0000789019

msft:MotorolaDefendantMember
msft:PatentAndIntellectualPropertyClaimsMember
country:DE



2012-05-01
2012-05-31




0000789019

msft:InternationalTradeCommissionMember



2011-12-01
2011-12-31




0000789019

msft:RevenuePerSearchGuaranteeMember



2009-12-01
2009-12-31




0000789019

msft:RevenuePerSearchGuaranteeMember
msft:NorthAmericaMember



2009-12-01
2009-12-31




0000789019

msft:InternationalTradeCommissionMember



2011-08-01
2011-08-31




0000789019


2008-08-23
2008-09-22




0000789019

us-gaap:ConvertibleDebtMember



2010-06-01
2010-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:EquityMember



2010-06-01
2010-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:DebtMember



2010-06-01
2010-06-30




0000789019


2010-06-01
2010-06-30




0000789019

msft:NovellMember
msft:AntitrustLitigationMember



2005-06-01
2005-06-30




0000789019

msft:MotorolaPlaintiffMember
msft:PatentAndIntellectualPropertyClaimsMember
msft:InternationalTradeCommissionMember



2012-04-01
2012-04-30




0000789019

msft:NovellMember
msft:AntitrustLitigationMember



2004-11-01
2004-11-30




0000789019

msft:SkypeMember
msft:TechnologyBasedIntangibleAssetsMember



2011-09-14
2011-10-13




0000789019

msft:SkypeMember
us-gaap:TradeNamesMember



2011-09-14
2011-10-13




0000789019

msft:SkypeMember
us-gaap:CustomerRelationshipsMember



2011-09-14
2011-10-13




0000789019

msft:SkypeMember
us-gaap:ContractualRightsMember



2011-09-14
2011-10-13




0000789019

msft:SkypeMember



2011-09-14
2011-10-13




0000789019

msft:YammerIncMember
us-gaap:SubsequentEventMember



2012-06-26
2012-07-18




0000789019

us-gaap:MaximumMember
us-gaap:SubsequentEventMember



2012-06-26
2012-07-17




0000789019

msft:YammerIncMember
us-gaap:SubsequentEventMember



2012-07-18




0000789019


2012-07-18




0000789019

us-gaap:RealEstateMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:DerivativeFinancialInstrumentsLiabilitiesMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:ForeignGovernmentDebtSecuritiesMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:USStatesAndPoliticalSubdivisionsMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:DerivativeFinancialInstrumentsAssetsMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:EquitySecuritiesMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:USGovernmentAgenciesDebtSecuritiesMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:CorporateDebtSecuritiesMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:MoneyMarketFundsMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:CertificatesOfDepositMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:MortgageBackedSecuritiesMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:CommercialPaperMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

msft:TechnologyBasedIntangibleAssetsMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

msft:MarketingIntangiblesMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:CustomerRelationshipsMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:ContractualRightsMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:SoftwareAndSoftwareDevelopmentCostsMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

msft:ContingenciesDisclosedInContingenciesNoteMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

msft:NovellMember
msft:AntitrustLitigationMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

msft:WindowsUpgradeOfferMember
msft:AllOtherMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

msft:AllOtherMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

msft:VolumeLicensingProgramsMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:DerivativeFinancialInstrumentsAssetsMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:EquitySecuritiesMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:CorporateDebtSecuritiesMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

msft:PatentInfringementsMember
us-gaap:PatentsMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:DerivativeFinancialInstrumentsLiabilitiesMember
msft:CreditRiskAndCounterpartyNettingMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:ForeignGovernmentDebtSecuritiesMember
msft:CreditRiskAndCounterpartyNettingMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:USStatesAndPoliticalSubdivisionsMember
msft:CreditRiskAndCounterpartyNettingMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:DerivativeFinancialInstrumentsAssetsMember
msft:CreditRiskAndCounterpartyNettingMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:EquitySecuritiesMember
msft:CreditRiskAndCounterpartyNettingMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:USGovernmentAgenciesDebtSecuritiesMember
msft:CreditRiskAndCounterpartyNettingMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:CorporateDebtSecuritiesMember
msft:CreditRiskAndCounterpartyNettingMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:MoneyMarketFundsMember
msft:CreditRiskAndCounterpartyNettingMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:CertificatesOfDepositMember
msft:CreditRiskAndCounterpartyNettingMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:MortgageBackedSecuritiesMember
msft:CreditRiskAndCounterpartyNettingMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:CommercialPaperMember
msft:CreditRiskAndCounterpartyNettingMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

msft:CreditRiskAndCounterpartyNettingMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:DerivativeFinancialInstrumentsLiabilitiesMember
msft:GrossFairValueMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:ForeignGovernmentDebtSecuritiesMember
msft:GrossFairValueMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:USStatesAndPoliticalSubdivisionsMember
msft:GrossFairValueMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:DerivativeFinancialInstrumentsAssetsMember
msft:GrossFairValueMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:EquitySecuritiesMember
msft:GrossFairValueMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:USGovernmentAgenciesDebtSecuritiesMember
msft:GrossFairValueMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:CorporateDebtSecuritiesMember
msft:GrossFairValueMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:MoneyMarketFundsMember
msft:GrossFairValueMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:CertificatesOfDepositMember
msft:GrossFairValueMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:MortgageBackedSecuritiesMember
msft:GrossFairValueMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:CommercialPaperMember
msft:GrossFairValueMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

msft:GrossFairValueMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:DerivativeFinancialInstrumentsLiabilitiesMember
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel2Member



2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:ForeignGovernmentDebtSecuritiesMember
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel2Member



2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:USStatesAndPoliticalSubdivisionsMember
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel2Member



2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:DerivativeFinancialInstrumentsAssetsMember
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel2Member



2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:EquitySecuritiesMember
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel2Member



2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:USGovernmentAgenciesDebtSecuritiesMember
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel2Member



2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:CorporateDebtSecuritiesMember
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel2Member



2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:MoneyMarketFundsMember
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel2Member



2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:CertificatesOfDepositMember
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel2Member



2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:MortgageBackedSecuritiesMember
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel2Member



2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:CommercialPaperMember
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel2Member



2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel2Member



2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:DerivativeFinancialInstrumentsLiabilitiesMember
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel1Member



2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:ForeignGovernmentDebtSecuritiesMember
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel1Member



2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:USStatesAndPoliticalSubdivisionsMember
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel1Member



2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:DerivativeFinancialInstrumentsAssetsMember
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel1Member



2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:EquitySecuritiesMember
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel1Member



2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:USGovernmentAgenciesDebtSecuritiesMember
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel1Member



2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:CorporateDebtSecuritiesMember
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel1Member



2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:MoneyMarketFundsMember
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel1Member



2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:CertificatesOfDepositMember
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel1Member



2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:MortgageBackedSecuritiesMember
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel1Member



2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:CommercialPaperMember
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel1Member



2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel1Member



2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:DerivativeFinancialInstrumentsLiabilitiesMember
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel3Member



2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:ForeignGovernmentDebtSecuritiesMember
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel3Member



2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:USStatesAndPoliticalSubdivisionsMember
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel3Member



2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:DerivativeFinancialInstrumentsAssetsMember
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel3Member



2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:EquitySecuritiesMember
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel3Member



2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:USGovernmentAgenciesDebtSecuritiesMember
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel3Member



2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:CorporateDebtSecuritiesMember
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel3Member



2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:MoneyMarketFundsMember
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel3Member



2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:CertificatesOfDepositMember
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel3Member



2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:MortgageBackedSecuritiesMember
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel3Member



2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:CommercialPaperMember
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel3Member



2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel3Member



2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:CommodityContractMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:ForeignExchangeContractMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:EquityContractMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:InterestRateContractMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:CreditRiskContractMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

msft:UnvestedStockAwardsMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

msft:OptionsBusinessCombinationsMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:EmployeeStockMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:PerformanceSharesMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:AllowanceForDoubtfulAccountsMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

msft:RetainedEarningsAccumulatedDeficitAndAccumulatedOtherComprehensiveIncomeLossNetOfTaxMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:CommonStockIncludingAdditionalPaidInCapitalMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

msft:RevenuePerSearchGuaranteeMember
us-gaap:MaximumMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

msft:OptionsBusinessCombinationsMember
us-gaap:MaximumMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

msft:OptionsBusinessCombinationsMember
us-gaap:MinimumMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

msft:DerivativesPurchasedMember
us-gaap:EquityContractMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

msft:DerivativesPurchasedMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

msft:DerivativesSoldMember
us-gaap:EquityContractMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

msft:DerivativesSoldMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

msft:NotesTwoPointFivePercentDueFebruaryEightTwentySixteenMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

msft:NotesFourPointZeroPercentDueFebruaryEightTwentyTwentyOneMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

msft:NotesFivePointThreePercentDueFebruaryEightTwentyFortyOneMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

msft:NotesFivePointTwoPercentDueJuneOneTwentyThirtyNineMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

msft:NotesThreePointZeroPercentDueOctoberOneTwentyTwentyMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

msft:NotesFourPointTwoPercentDueJuneOneTwentyNineteenMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

msft:NotesTwoPointNineFivePercentDueJuneOneTwentyFourteenMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

msft:NotesZeroPointEightSevenFivePercentDueSeptemberTwentySevenTwentyThirteenMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

msft:NotesOnePointSixTwoFivePercentDueSeptemberTwentyFiveTwentyFifteenMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

msft:NotesFourPointFivePercentDueOctoberOneTwentyFortyMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:ConvertibleDebtMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:LongTermDebtMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:OtherDebtSecuritiesMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:ForeignGovernmentDebtSecuritiesMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:USStatesAndPoliticalSubdivisionsMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:EquitySecuritiesMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:USGovernmentAgenciesDebtSecuritiesMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:CorporateDebtSecuritiesMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:MoneyMarketFundsMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:CertificatesOfDepositMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:CashMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:MortgageBackedSecuritiesMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:CommercialPaperMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:CommodityContractMember
us-gaap:NondesignatedMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:ForeignExchangeContractMember
us-gaap:NondesignatedMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:EquityContractMember
us-gaap:NondesignatedMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:InterestRateContractMember
us-gaap:NondesignatedMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:CreditRiskContractMember
us-gaap:NondesignatedMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:NondesignatedMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:CommodityContractMember
us-gaap:DesignatedAsHedgingInstrumentMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:ForeignExchangeContractMember
us-gaap:DesignatedAsHedgingInstrumentMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:EquityContractMember
us-gaap:DesignatedAsHedgingInstrumentMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:InterestRateContractMember
us-gaap:DesignatedAsHedgingInstrumentMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:CreditRiskContractMember
us-gaap:DesignatedAsHedgingInstrumentMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:DesignatedAsHedgingInstrumentMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

msft:LuxembourgMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

msft:CasesStayedMember
msft:PatentAndIntellectualPropertyClaimsMember
msft:WisconsinMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

msft:OtherCountriesMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

msft:MotorolaDefendantMember
msft:PatentAndIntellectualPropertyClaimsMember
msft:UnitedStatesStateDistrictCourtMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

msft:MotorolaPlaintiffMember
msft:PatentAndIntellectualPropertyClaimsMember
msft:UnitedStatesStateDistrictCourtMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

msft:AntitrustUnfairCompetitionAndOverchargeClassActionsMember
country:CA



2012-06-30




0000789019

msft:CasesStayedMember
msft:AntitrustUnfairCompetitionAndOverchargeClassActionsMember
country:CA



2012-06-30




0000789019

msft:AntitrustUnfairCompetitionAndOverchargeClassActionsMember
country:US



2012-06-30




0000789019

msft:BuildingBuildingImprovementsAndLeaseholdImprovementsMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:ForeignGovernmentDebtSecuritiesMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:EquitySecuritiesMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:USGovernmentAgenciesDebtSecuritiesMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:CorporateDebtSecuritiesMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:MortgageBackedSecuritiesMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

msft:NotesTwoPointFivePercentDueFebruaryEightTwentySixteenMember
msft:SemiAnnualPaymentSecondPaymentMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

msft:NotesFourPointZeroPercentDueFebruaryEightTwentyTwentyOneMember
msft:SemiAnnualPaymentSecondPaymentMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

msft:NotesFivePointThreePercentDueFebruaryEightTwentyFortyOneMember
msft:SemiAnnualPaymentSecondPaymentMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

msft:NotesFivePointTwoPercentDueJuneOneTwentyThirtyNineMember
msft:SemiAnnualPaymentSecondPaymentMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

msft:NotesThreePointZeroPercentDueOctoberOneTwentyTwentyMember
msft:SemiAnnualPaymentSecondPaymentMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

msft:NotesFourPointTwoPercentDueJuneOneTwentyNineteenMember
msft:SemiAnnualPaymentSecondPaymentMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

msft:NotesTwoPointNineFivePercentDueJuneOneTwentyFourteenMember
msft:SemiAnnualPaymentSecondPaymentMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

msft:NotesZeroPointEightSevenFivePercentDueSeptemberTwentySevenTwentyThirteenMember
msft:SemiAnnualPaymentSecondPaymentMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

msft:NotesOnePointSixTwoFivePercentDueSeptemberTwentyFiveTwentyFifteenMember
msft:SemiAnnualPaymentSecondPaymentMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

msft:NotesFourPointFivePercentDueOctoberOneTwentyFortyMember
msft:SemiAnnualPaymentSecondPaymentMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

msft:NotesTwoPointFivePercentDueFebruaryEightTwentySixteenMember
msft:SemiAnnualPaymentFirstPaymentMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

msft:NotesFourPointZeroPercentDueFebruaryEightTwentyTwentyOneMember
msft:SemiAnnualPaymentFirstPaymentMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

msft:NotesFivePointThreePercentDueFebruaryEightTwentyFortyOneMember
msft:SemiAnnualPaymentFirstPaymentMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

msft:NotesFivePointTwoPercentDueJuneOneTwentyThirtyNineMember
msft:SemiAnnualPaymentFirstPaymentMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

msft:NotesThreePointZeroPercentDueOctoberOneTwentyTwentyMember
msft:SemiAnnualPaymentFirstPaymentMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

msft:NotesFourPointTwoPercentDueJuneOneTwentyNineteenMember
msft:SemiAnnualPaymentFirstPaymentMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

msft:NotesTwoPointNineFivePercentDueJuneOneTwentyFourteenMember
msft:SemiAnnualPaymentFirstPaymentMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

msft:NotesZeroPointEightSevenFivePercentDueSeptemberTwentySevenTwentyThirteenMember
msft:SemiAnnualPaymentFirstPaymentMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

msft:NotesOnePointSixTwoFivePercentDueSeptemberTwentyFiveTwentyFifteenMember
msft:SemiAnnualPaymentFirstPaymentMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

msft:NotesFourPointFivePercentDueOctoberOneTwentyFortyMember
msft:SemiAnnualPaymentFirstPaymentMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

msft:WindowsAndWindowsLiveMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

msft:OnlineServicesDivisionMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

msft:EntertainmentAndDevicesDivisionMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

msft:MicrosoftBusinessDivisionMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

msft:ServerAndToolsMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:AllOtherSegmentsMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

msft:OtherAcquiredEntitiesMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:FairValueMeasurementsNonrecurringMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:FairValueMeasurementsRecurringMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

msft:OtherCurrentLiabilitiesMember
us-gaap:CommodityContractMember
us-gaap:NondesignatedMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

msft:OtherCurrentLiabilitiesMember
us-gaap:ForeignExchangeContractMember
us-gaap:NondesignatedMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

msft:OtherCurrentLiabilitiesMember
us-gaap:EquityContractMember
us-gaap:NondesignatedMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

msft:OtherCurrentLiabilitiesMember
us-gaap:InterestRateContractMember
us-gaap:NondesignatedMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

msft:OtherCurrentLiabilitiesMember
us-gaap:CreditRiskContractMember
us-gaap:NondesignatedMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

msft:OtherCurrentLiabilitiesMember
us-gaap:NondesignatedMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

msft:OtherCurrentLiabilitiesMember
us-gaap:CommodityContractMember
us-gaap:DesignatedAsHedgingInstrumentMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

msft:OtherCurrentLiabilitiesMember
us-gaap:ForeignExchangeContractMember
us-gaap:DesignatedAsHedgingInstrumentMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

msft:OtherCurrentLiabilitiesMember
us-gaap:EquityContractMember
us-gaap:DesignatedAsHedgingInstrumentMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

msft:OtherCurrentLiabilitiesMember
us-gaap:InterestRateContractMember
us-gaap:DesignatedAsHedgingInstrumentMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

msft:OtherCurrentLiabilitiesMember
us-gaap:CreditRiskContractMember
us-gaap:DesignatedAsHedgingInstrumentMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

msft:OtherCurrentLiabilitiesMember
us-gaap:DesignatedAsHedgingInstrumentMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:OtherCurrentAssetsMember
us-gaap:CommodityContractMember
us-gaap:NondesignatedMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:OtherCurrentAssetsMember
us-gaap:ForeignExchangeContractMember
us-gaap:NondesignatedMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:OtherCurrentAssetsMember
us-gaap:EquityContractMember
us-gaap:NondesignatedMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:OtherCurrentAssetsMember
us-gaap:InterestRateContractMember
us-gaap:NondesignatedMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:OtherCurrentAssetsMember
us-gaap:CreditRiskContractMember
us-gaap:NondesignatedMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:OtherCurrentAssetsMember
us-gaap:NondesignatedMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:OtherCurrentAssetsMember
us-gaap:CommodityContractMember
us-gaap:DesignatedAsHedgingInstrumentMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:OtherCurrentAssetsMember
us-gaap:ForeignExchangeContractMember
us-gaap:DesignatedAsHedgingInstrumentMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:OtherCurrentAssetsMember
us-gaap:EquityContractMember
us-gaap:DesignatedAsHedgingInstrumentMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:OtherCurrentAssetsMember
us-gaap:InterestRateContractMember
us-gaap:DesignatedAsHedgingInstrumentMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:OtherCurrentAssetsMember
us-gaap:CreditRiskContractMember
us-gaap:DesignatedAsHedgingInstrumentMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:OtherCurrentAssetsMember
us-gaap:DesignatedAsHedgingInstrumentMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:OtherCurrentAssetsMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:ShortTermInvestmentsMember
us-gaap:CommodityContractMember
us-gaap:NondesignatedMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:ShortTermInvestmentsMember
us-gaap:ForeignExchangeContractMember
us-gaap:NondesignatedMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:ShortTermInvestmentsMember
us-gaap:EquityContractMember
us-gaap:NondesignatedMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:ShortTermInvestmentsMember
us-gaap:InterestRateContractMember
us-gaap:NondesignatedMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:ShortTermInvestmentsMember
us-gaap:CreditRiskContractMember
us-gaap:NondesignatedMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:ShortTermInvestmentsMember
us-gaap:NondesignatedMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:ShortTermInvestmentsMember
us-gaap:CommodityContractMember
us-gaap:DesignatedAsHedgingInstrumentMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:ShortTermInvestmentsMember
us-gaap:ForeignExchangeContractMember
us-gaap:DesignatedAsHedgingInstrumentMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:ShortTermInvestmentsMember
us-gaap:EquityContractMember
us-gaap:DesignatedAsHedgingInstrumentMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:ShortTermInvestmentsMember
us-gaap:InterestRateContractMember
us-gaap:DesignatedAsHedgingInstrumentMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:ShortTermInvestmentsMember
us-gaap:CreditRiskContractMember
us-gaap:DesignatedAsHedgingInstrumentMember



2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:ShortTermInvestmentsMember
us-gaap:DesignatedAsHedgingInstrumentMember



2012-06-30




0000789019


2012-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:DerivativeFinancialInstrumentsLiabilitiesMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:ForeignGovernmentDebtSecuritiesMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:USStatesAndPoliticalSubdivisionsMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:DerivativeFinancialInstrumentsAssetsMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:EquitySecuritiesMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:USGovernmentAgenciesDebtSecuritiesMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:CorporateDebtSecuritiesMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:MoneyMarketFundsMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:CertificatesOfDepositMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:MortgageBackedSecuritiesMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:CommercialPaperMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

msft:TechnologyBasedIntangibleAssetsMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

msft:MarketingIntangiblesMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:CustomerRelationshipsMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:ContractualRightsMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:SoftwareAndSoftwareDevelopmentCostsMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

msft:AllOtherMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

msft:VolumeLicensingProgramsMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:DerivativeFinancialInstrumentsAssetsMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:EquitySecuritiesMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:CorporateDebtSecuritiesMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:DerivativeFinancialInstrumentsLiabilitiesMember
msft:CreditRiskAndCounterpartyNettingMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:ForeignGovernmentDebtSecuritiesMember
msft:CreditRiskAndCounterpartyNettingMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:USStatesAndPoliticalSubdivisionsMember
msft:CreditRiskAndCounterpartyNettingMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:DerivativeFinancialInstrumentsAssetsMember
msft:CreditRiskAndCounterpartyNettingMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:EquitySecuritiesMember
msft:CreditRiskAndCounterpartyNettingMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:USGovernmentAgenciesDebtSecuritiesMember
msft:CreditRiskAndCounterpartyNettingMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:CorporateDebtSecuritiesMember
msft:CreditRiskAndCounterpartyNettingMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:MoneyMarketFundsMember
msft:CreditRiskAndCounterpartyNettingMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:CertificatesOfDepositMember
msft:CreditRiskAndCounterpartyNettingMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:MortgageBackedSecuritiesMember
msft:CreditRiskAndCounterpartyNettingMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:CommercialPaperMember
msft:CreditRiskAndCounterpartyNettingMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

msft:CreditRiskAndCounterpartyNettingMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:DerivativeFinancialInstrumentsLiabilitiesMember
msft:GrossFairValueMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:ForeignGovernmentDebtSecuritiesMember
msft:GrossFairValueMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:USStatesAndPoliticalSubdivisionsMember
msft:GrossFairValueMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:DerivativeFinancialInstrumentsAssetsMember
msft:GrossFairValueMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:EquitySecuritiesMember
msft:GrossFairValueMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:USGovernmentAgenciesDebtSecuritiesMember
msft:GrossFairValueMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:CorporateDebtSecuritiesMember
msft:GrossFairValueMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:MoneyMarketFundsMember
msft:GrossFairValueMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:CertificatesOfDepositMember
msft:GrossFairValueMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:MortgageBackedSecuritiesMember
msft:GrossFairValueMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:CommercialPaperMember
msft:GrossFairValueMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

msft:GrossFairValueMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:DerivativeFinancialInstrumentsLiabilitiesMember
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel2Member



2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:ForeignGovernmentDebtSecuritiesMember
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel2Member



2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:USStatesAndPoliticalSubdivisionsMember
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel2Member



2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:DerivativeFinancialInstrumentsAssetsMember
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel2Member



2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:EquitySecuritiesMember
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel2Member



2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:USGovernmentAgenciesDebtSecuritiesMember
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel2Member



2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:CorporateDebtSecuritiesMember
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel2Member



2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:MoneyMarketFundsMember
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel2Member



2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:CertificatesOfDepositMember
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel2Member



2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:MortgageBackedSecuritiesMember
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel2Member



2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:CommercialPaperMember
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel2Member



2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel2Member



2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:DerivativeFinancialInstrumentsLiabilitiesMember
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel1Member



2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:ForeignGovernmentDebtSecuritiesMember
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel1Member



2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:USStatesAndPoliticalSubdivisionsMember
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel1Member



2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:DerivativeFinancialInstrumentsAssetsMember
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel1Member



2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:EquitySecuritiesMember
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel1Member



2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:USGovernmentAgenciesDebtSecuritiesMember
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel1Member



2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:CorporateDebtSecuritiesMember
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel1Member



2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:MoneyMarketFundsMember
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel1Member



2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:CertificatesOfDepositMember
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel1Member



2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:MortgageBackedSecuritiesMember
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel1Member



2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:CommercialPaperMember
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel1Member



2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel1Member



2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:DerivativeFinancialInstrumentsLiabilitiesMember
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel3Member



2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:ForeignGovernmentDebtSecuritiesMember
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel3Member



2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:USStatesAndPoliticalSubdivisionsMember
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel3Member



2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:DerivativeFinancialInstrumentsAssetsMember
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel3Member



2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:EquitySecuritiesMember
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel3Member



2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:USGovernmentAgenciesDebtSecuritiesMember
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel3Member



2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:CorporateDebtSecuritiesMember
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel3Member



2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:MoneyMarketFundsMember
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel3Member



2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:CertificatesOfDepositMember
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel3Member



2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:MortgageBackedSecuritiesMember
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel3Member



2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:CommercialPaperMember
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel3Member



2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel3Member



2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:CommodityContractMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:ForeignExchangeContractMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:EquityContractMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:InterestRateContractMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:CreditRiskContractMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

msft:UnvestedStockAwardsMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:EmployeeStockMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:PerformanceSharesMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:AllowanceForDoubtfulAccountsMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

msft:RetainedEarningsAccumulatedDeficitAndAccumulatedOtherComprehensiveIncomeLossNetOfTaxMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:CommonStockIncludingAdditionalPaidInCapitalMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

msft:DerivativesPurchasedMember
us-gaap:EquityContractMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

msft:DerivativesPurchasedMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

msft:DerivativesSoldMember
us-gaap:EquityContractMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

msft:DerivativesSoldMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

msft:NotesTwoPointFivePercentDueFebruaryEightTwentySixteenMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

msft:NotesFourPointZeroPercentDueFebruaryEightTwentyTwentyOneMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

msft:NotesFivePointThreePercentDueFebruaryEightTwentyFortyOneMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

msft:NotesFivePointTwoPercentDueJuneOneTwentyThirtyNineMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

msft:NotesThreePointZeroPercentDueOctoberOneTwentyTwentyMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

msft:NotesFourPointTwoPercentDueJuneOneTwentyNineteenMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

msft:NotesTwoPointNineFivePercentDueJuneOneTwentyFourteenMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

msft:NotesZeroPointEightSevenFivePercentDueSeptemberTwentySevenTwentyThirteenMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

msft:NotesOnePointSixTwoFivePercentDueSeptemberTwentyFiveTwentyFifteenMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

msft:NotesFourPointFivePercentDueOctoberOneTwentyFortyMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:ConvertibleDebtMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:LongTermDebtMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:OtherDebtSecuritiesMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:ForeignGovernmentDebtSecuritiesMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:USStatesAndPoliticalSubdivisionsMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:EquitySecuritiesMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:USGovernmentAgenciesDebtSecuritiesMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:CorporateDebtSecuritiesMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:MoneyMarketFundsMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:CertificatesOfDepositMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:CashMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:MortgageBackedSecuritiesMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:CommercialPaperMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:CommodityContractMember
us-gaap:NondesignatedMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:ForeignExchangeContractMember
us-gaap:NondesignatedMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:EquityContractMember
us-gaap:NondesignatedMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:InterestRateContractMember
us-gaap:NondesignatedMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:CreditRiskContractMember
us-gaap:NondesignatedMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:NondesignatedMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:CommodityContractMember
us-gaap:DesignatedAsHedgingInstrumentMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:ForeignExchangeContractMember
us-gaap:DesignatedAsHedgingInstrumentMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:EquityContractMember
us-gaap:DesignatedAsHedgingInstrumentMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:InterestRateContractMember
us-gaap:DesignatedAsHedgingInstrumentMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:CreditRiskContractMember
us-gaap:DesignatedAsHedgingInstrumentMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:DesignatedAsHedgingInstrumentMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

msft:LuxembourgMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

msft:OtherCountriesMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:ForeignGovernmentDebtSecuritiesMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:USStatesAndPoliticalSubdivisionsMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:EquitySecuritiesMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:USGovernmentAgenciesDebtSecuritiesMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:CorporateDebtSecuritiesMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:MortgageBackedSecuritiesMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

msft:NotesTwoPointFivePercentDueFebruaryEightTwentySixteenMember
msft:SemiAnnualPaymentSecondPaymentMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

msft:NotesFourPointZeroPercentDueFebruaryEightTwentyTwentyOneMember
msft:SemiAnnualPaymentSecondPaymentMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

msft:NotesFivePointThreePercentDueFebruaryEightTwentyFortyOneMember
msft:SemiAnnualPaymentSecondPaymentMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

msft:NotesFivePointTwoPercentDueJuneOneTwentyThirtyNineMember
msft:SemiAnnualPaymentSecondPaymentMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

msft:NotesThreePointZeroPercentDueOctoberOneTwentyTwentyMember
msft:SemiAnnualPaymentSecondPaymentMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

msft:NotesFourPointTwoPercentDueJuneOneTwentyNineteenMember
msft:SemiAnnualPaymentSecondPaymentMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

msft:NotesTwoPointNineFivePercentDueJuneOneTwentyFourteenMember
msft:SemiAnnualPaymentSecondPaymentMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

msft:NotesZeroPointEightSevenFivePercentDueSeptemberTwentySevenTwentyThirteenMember
msft:SemiAnnualPaymentSecondPaymentMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

msft:NotesOnePointSixTwoFivePercentDueSeptemberTwentyFiveTwentyFifteenMember
msft:SemiAnnualPaymentSecondPaymentMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

msft:NotesFourPointFivePercentDueOctoberOneTwentyFortyMember
msft:SemiAnnualPaymentSecondPaymentMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

msft:NotesTwoPointFivePercentDueFebruaryEightTwentySixteenMember
msft:SemiAnnualPaymentFirstPaymentMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

msft:NotesFourPointZeroPercentDueFebruaryEightTwentyTwentyOneMember
msft:SemiAnnualPaymentFirstPaymentMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

msft:NotesFivePointThreePercentDueFebruaryEightTwentyFortyOneMember
msft:SemiAnnualPaymentFirstPaymentMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

msft:NotesFivePointTwoPercentDueJuneOneTwentyThirtyNineMember
msft:SemiAnnualPaymentFirstPaymentMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

msft:NotesThreePointZeroPercentDueOctoberOneTwentyTwentyMember
msft:SemiAnnualPaymentFirstPaymentMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

msft:NotesFourPointTwoPercentDueJuneOneTwentyNineteenMember
msft:SemiAnnualPaymentFirstPaymentMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

msft:NotesTwoPointNineFivePercentDueJuneOneTwentyFourteenMember
msft:SemiAnnualPaymentFirstPaymentMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

msft:NotesZeroPointEightSevenFivePercentDueSeptemberTwentySevenTwentyThirteenMember
msft:SemiAnnualPaymentFirstPaymentMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

msft:NotesOnePointSixTwoFivePercentDueSeptemberTwentyFiveTwentyFifteenMember
msft:SemiAnnualPaymentFirstPaymentMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

msft:NotesFourPointFivePercentDueOctoberOneTwentyFortyMember
msft:SemiAnnualPaymentFirstPaymentMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

msft:WindowsAndWindowsLiveMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

msft:OnlineServicesDivisionMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

msft:EntertainmentAndDevicesDivisionMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

msft:MicrosoftBusinessDivisionMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

msft:ServerAndToolsMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:AllOtherSegmentsMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

msft:OtherAcquiredEntitiesMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:FairValueMeasurementsNonrecurringMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:FairValueMeasurementsRecurringMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

msft:OtherCurrentLiabilitiesMember
us-gaap:CommodityContractMember
us-gaap:NondesignatedMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

msft:OtherCurrentLiabilitiesMember
us-gaap:ForeignExchangeContractMember
us-gaap:NondesignatedMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

msft:OtherCurrentLiabilitiesMember
us-gaap:EquityContractMember
us-gaap:NondesignatedMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

msft:OtherCurrentLiabilitiesMember
us-gaap:InterestRateContractMember
us-gaap:NondesignatedMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

msft:OtherCurrentLiabilitiesMember
us-gaap:CreditRiskContractMember
us-gaap:NondesignatedMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

msft:OtherCurrentLiabilitiesMember
us-gaap:NondesignatedMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

msft:OtherCurrentLiabilitiesMember
us-gaap:CommodityContractMember
us-gaap:DesignatedAsHedgingInstrumentMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

msft:OtherCurrentLiabilitiesMember
us-gaap:ForeignExchangeContractMember
us-gaap:DesignatedAsHedgingInstrumentMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

msft:OtherCurrentLiabilitiesMember
us-gaap:EquityContractMember
us-gaap:DesignatedAsHedgingInstrumentMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

msft:OtherCurrentLiabilitiesMember
us-gaap:InterestRateContractMember
us-gaap:DesignatedAsHedgingInstrumentMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

msft:OtherCurrentLiabilitiesMember
us-gaap:CreditRiskContractMember
us-gaap:DesignatedAsHedgingInstrumentMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

msft:OtherCurrentLiabilitiesMember
us-gaap:DesignatedAsHedgingInstrumentMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:OtherCurrentAssetsMember
us-gaap:CommodityContractMember
us-gaap:NondesignatedMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:OtherCurrentAssetsMember
us-gaap:ForeignExchangeContractMember
us-gaap:NondesignatedMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:OtherCurrentAssetsMember
us-gaap:EquityContractMember
us-gaap:NondesignatedMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:OtherCurrentAssetsMember
us-gaap:InterestRateContractMember
us-gaap:NondesignatedMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:OtherCurrentAssetsMember
us-gaap:CreditRiskContractMember
us-gaap:NondesignatedMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:OtherCurrentAssetsMember
us-gaap:NondesignatedMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:OtherCurrentAssetsMember
us-gaap:CommodityContractMember
us-gaap:DesignatedAsHedgingInstrumentMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:OtherCurrentAssetsMember
us-gaap:ForeignExchangeContractMember
us-gaap:DesignatedAsHedgingInstrumentMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:OtherCurrentAssetsMember
us-gaap:EquityContractMember
us-gaap:DesignatedAsHedgingInstrumentMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:OtherCurrentAssetsMember
us-gaap:InterestRateContractMember
us-gaap:DesignatedAsHedgingInstrumentMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:OtherCurrentAssetsMember
us-gaap:CreditRiskContractMember
us-gaap:DesignatedAsHedgingInstrumentMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:OtherCurrentAssetsMember
us-gaap:DesignatedAsHedgingInstrumentMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:OtherCurrentAssetsMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:ShortTermInvestmentsMember
us-gaap:CommodityContractMember
us-gaap:NondesignatedMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:ShortTermInvestmentsMember
us-gaap:ForeignExchangeContractMember
us-gaap:NondesignatedMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:ShortTermInvestmentsMember
us-gaap:EquityContractMember
us-gaap:NondesignatedMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:ShortTermInvestmentsMember
us-gaap:InterestRateContractMember
us-gaap:NondesignatedMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:ShortTermInvestmentsMember
us-gaap:CreditRiskContractMember
us-gaap:NondesignatedMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:ShortTermInvestmentsMember
us-gaap:NondesignatedMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:ShortTermInvestmentsMember
us-gaap:CommodityContractMember
us-gaap:DesignatedAsHedgingInstrumentMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:ShortTermInvestmentsMember
us-gaap:ForeignExchangeContractMember
us-gaap:DesignatedAsHedgingInstrumentMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:ShortTermInvestmentsMember
us-gaap:EquityContractMember
us-gaap:DesignatedAsHedgingInstrumentMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:ShortTermInvestmentsMember
us-gaap:InterestRateContractMember
us-gaap:DesignatedAsHedgingInstrumentMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:ShortTermInvestmentsMember
us-gaap:CreditRiskContractMember
us-gaap:DesignatedAsHedgingInstrumentMember



2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:ShortTermInvestmentsMember
us-gaap:DesignatedAsHedgingInstrumentMember



2011-06-30




0000789019


2011-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:PurchasedCallOptionMember



2010-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:DerivativeFinancialInstrumentsAssetsMember



2010-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:EquitySecuritiesMember



2010-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:CorporateDebtSecuritiesMember



2010-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:EmployeeStockMember



2010-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:AllowanceForDoubtfulAccountsMember



2010-06-30




0000789019

msft:RetainedEarningsAccumulatedDeficitAndAccumulatedOtherComprehensiveIncomeLossNetOfTaxMember



2010-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:CommonStockIncludingAdditionalPaidInCapitalMember



2010-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:ConvertibleDebtMember



2010-06-30




0000789019

msft:LuxembourgMember



2010-06-30




0000789019

msft:OtherCountriesMember



2010-06-30




0000789019

msft:WindowsAndWindowsLiveMember



2010-06-30




0000789019

msft:OnlineServicesDivisionMember



2010-06-30




0000789019

msft:EntertainmentAndDevicesDivisionMember



2010-06-30




0000789019

msft:MicrosoftBusinessDivisionMember



2010-06-30




0000789019

msft:ServerAndToolsMember



2010-06-30




0000789019

msft:OtherAcquiredEntitiesMember



2010-06-30




0000789019


2010-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:AllowanceForDoubtfulAccountsMember



2009-06-30




0000789019

msft:RetainedEarningsAccumulatedDeficitAndAccumulatedOtherComprehensiveIncomeLossNetOfTaxMember



2009-06-30




0000789019

us-gaap:CommonStockIncludingAdditionalPaidInCapitalMember



2009-06-30




0000789019


2009-06-30




0000789019


2011-12-31




0000789019

msft:MotorolaPlaintiffMember
msft:PatentAndIntellectualPropertyClaimsMember
msft:InternationalTradeCommissionMember



2010-11-30




0000789019

msft:SkypeMember
msft:TechnologyBasedIntangibleAssetsMember



2011-10-13




0000789019

msft:SkypeMember
us-gaap:TradeNamesMember



2011-10-13




0000789019

msft:SkypeMember
us-gaap:CustomerRelationshipsMember



2011-10-13




0000789019

msft:SkypeMember
us-gaap:ContractualRightsMember



2011-10-13




0000789019

msft:SkypeMember
msft:OnlineServicesDivisionMember



2011-10-13




0000789019

msft:SkypeMember
msft:EntertainmentAndDevicesDivisionMember



2011-10-13




0000789019

msft:SkypeMember
msft:MicrosoftBusinessDivisionMember



2011-10-13




0000789019

msft:SkypeMember



2011-10-13




0000789019

msft:MotorolaPlaintiffMember
msft:PatentAndIntellectualPropertyClaimsMember
country:DE
msft:GroupTwoMember



2011-07-31




0000789019

msft:MotorolaPlaintiffMember
msft:PatentAndIntellectualPropertyClaimsMember
country:DE
msft:GroupOneMember



2011-07-31




0000789019

msft:MotorolaDefendantMember
msft:PatentAndIntellectualPropertyClaimsMember



2010-10-31



msft:LegalMatter


iso4217:USD


shares


msft:Entity




iso4217:USD


shares




pure




iso4217:USD


msft:Contract




msft:Segment














































These amounts represent the impact of netting derivative assets and derivative liabilities when a legally enforceable master netting agreement exists and fair value adjustments related to our own credit risk and counterparty credit risk.
Other as of June 30, 2012 includes $540 million of unearned revenue associated with the Windows Upgrade Offer.
Corporate-level activity excludes revenue reconciling amounts presented separately in that line item.
Includes a partial settlement of an I.R.S. audit of tax years 2004 to 2006, which increased net income by $461 million.
Reflects an effective tax rate of 7% due mainly to the adjustment of our previously estimated effective tax rate for the year to reflect the actual full year mix of foreign and U.S. taxable income. In addition, upon completion of our annual domestic and foreign tax returns, we adjusted the estimated tax provision to reflect the tax returns filed and recorded an income tax benefit which lowered our effective tax rate.
Includes billings to OEMs and certain multinational organizations because of the nature of these businesses and the impracticability of determining the geographic source of the revenue
Includes a goodwill impairment charge related to our OSD business segment which decreased net income by $6.2 billion and diluted earnings per share by $0.73.
Technology-based intangible assets included $177 million and $179 million as of June 30, 2012 and 2011, respectively, of net carrying amount of software to be sold, leased, or otherwise marketed.


















































EX-101.SCH
11
msft-20120630.xsd
XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION SCHEMA












1001 - Document - Document and Entity Information
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink


1003 - Statement - Income Statements
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink


1004 - Statement - Balance Sheets
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink


1005 - Statement - Balance Sheets (Parenthetical)
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink


1006 - Statement - Cash Flows Statements
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink


1007 - Statement - Stockholders' Equity Statements
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink


1008 - Disclosure - Accounting Policies
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink


1009 - Disclosure - Earnings Per Share
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink


1010 - Disclosure - Other Income (Expense)
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink


1011 - Disclosure - Investments
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink


1012 - Disclosure - Derivatives
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink


1013 - Disclosure - Fair Value Measurements
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink


1014 - Disclosure - Inventories
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink


1015 - Disclosure - Property And Equipment
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink


1016 - Disclosure - Business Combinations
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink


1017 - Disclosure - Goodwill
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink


1018 - Disclosure - Intangible Assets
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink


1019 - Disclosure - Debt
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink


1020 - Disclosure - Income Taxes
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink


1021 - Disclosure - Unearned Revenue
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink


1022 - Disclosure - Other Long-Term Liabilities
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink


1023 - Disclosure - Commitments And Guarantees
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink


1024 - Disclosure - Contingencies
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink


1025 - Disclosure - Stockholders' Equity
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink


1026 - Disclosure - Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink


1027 - Disclosure - Employee Stock and Savings Plans
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink


1028 - Disclosure - Segment Information and Geographic Data
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink


1029 - Disclosure - Subsequent Event
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink


1030 - Disclosure - Quarterly Information (Unaudited)
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink


1031 - Disclosure - Accounting Policies (Policies)
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink


1032 - Disclosure - Accounting Policies (Tables)
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink


1033 - Disclosure - Earnings Per Share (Tables)
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink


1034 - Disclosure - Other Income (Expense) (Tables)
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink


1035 - Disclosure - Investments (Tables)
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink


1036 - Disclosure - Derivatives (Tables)
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink


1037 - Disclosure - Fair Value Measurements (Tables)
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink


1038 - Disclosure - Inventories (Tables)
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink


1039 - Disclosure - Property And Equipment (Tables)
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink


1040 - Disclosure - Business Combinations (Tables)
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink


1041 - Disclosure - Goodwill (Tables)
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink


1042 - Disclosure - Intangible Assets (Tables)
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink


1043 - Disclosure - Debt (Tables)
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink


1044 - Disclosure - Income Taxes (Tables)
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink


1045 - Disclosure - Unearned Revenue (Tables)
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink


1046 - Disclosure - Other Long-Term Liabilities (Tables)
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink


1047 - Disclosure - Commitments And Guarantees (Tables)
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink


1048 - Disclosure - Stockholders' Equity (Tables)
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink


1049 - Disclosure - Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) (Tables)
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink


1050 - Disclosure - Employee Stock and Savings Plans (Tables)
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink


1051 - Disclosure - Segment Information and Geographic Data (Tables)
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink


1052 - Disclosure - Quarterly Information (Unaudited) (Tables)
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink


1053 - Disclosure - Accounting Policies - Additional Information (Detail)
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink


1054 - Disclosure - Allowance for Doubtful Accounts (Detail)
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink


1055 - Disclosure - Basic and Diluted Earnings Per Share (Detail)
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink


1056 - Disclosure - Shares Excluded From Calculation of EPS (Detail)
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink


1057 - Disclosure - Earnings Per Share - Additional Information (Detail)
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink


1058 - Disclosure - Components of Other Income (Expense) (Detail)
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink


1059 - Disclosure - Net Recognized Gains (Losses) on Investments (Detail)
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink


1060 - Disclosure - Investment Components, Including Associated Derivatives (Detail)
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink


1061 - Disclosure - Unrealized Loss Position Investments (Detail)
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink


1062 - Disclosure - Investments - Additional Information (Detail)
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink


1063 - Disclosure - Debt Investment Maturities (Detail)
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink


1064 - Disclosure - Derivatives - Additional Information (Detail)
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink


1065 - Disclosure - Fair Values of Derivative Instruments (Detail)
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink


1066 - Disclosure - Gains (Losses) on Fair Value Hedges and Related Hedged Items (Detail)
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink


1067 - Disclosure - Gains (Losses) Related to Cash Flow Hedges (Detail)
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink


1068 - Disclosure - Gains (Losses) Related to Cash Flow Hedges (Parenthetical) (Detail)
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink


1069 - Disclosure - Non-Designated Derivative Gains (Losses) (Detail)
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink


1070 - Disclosure - Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on Recurring Basis (Detail)
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink


1071 - Disclosure - Reconciliation of Total Assets Measured at Fair Value on Recurring Basis to Balance Sheet Presentation (Detail)
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink


1072 - Disclosure - Changes in Financial Instruments Measured at Level 3 Fair Value on Recurring Basis (Detail)
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink


1073 - Disclosure - Components of Inventories (Detail)
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink


1074 - Disclosure - Components of Property and Equipment (Detail)
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink


1075 - Disclosure - Property and Equipment - Additional Information (Detail)
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink


1076 - Disclosure - Business Combinations - Additional Information (Detail)
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink


1077 - Disclosure - Acquired Intangible Assets (Detail)
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink


1078 - Disclosure - Carrying Amount of Goodwill (Detail)
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink


1079 - Disclosure - Goodwill - Additional Information (Detail)
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink


1080 - Disclosure - Finite-Lived Intangible Assets (Detail)
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink


1081 - Disclosure - Finite-Lived Intangible Assets (Parenthetical) (Detail)
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink


1082 - Disclosure - Intangible Assets Acquired (Detail)
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink


1083 - Disclosure - Intangible Assets - Additional Information (Detail)
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink


1084 - Disclosure - Estimated Future Amortization Expense Related to Intangible Assets (Detail)
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink


1085 - Disclosure - Debt - Additional Information (Detail)
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink


1086 - Disclosure - Long-term Debt (Detail)
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink


1087 - Disclosure - Maturities of Long-term Debt (Detail)
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink


1088 - Disclosure - Provision for Income Taxes (Detail)
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink


1089 - Disclosure - Income Before Income Taxes (Detail)
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink


1090 - Disclosure - Difference Between Income Taxes Computed at Federal Statutory Rate and Provision for Income Taxes (Detail)
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink


1091 - Disclosure - Deferred Income Tax Assets and Liabilities (Detail)
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink


1092 - Disclosure - Income Taxes - Additional Information (Detail)
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink


1093 - Disclosure - Changes in Unrecognized Tax Benefits (Detail)
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink


1094 - Disclosure - Income Taxes - Additional Information Regarding Examinations (Detail)
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink


1095 - Disclosure - Components of Unearned Revenue (Detail)
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink


1096 - Disclosure - Components of Unearned Revenue (Parenthetical) (Detail)
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink


1097 - Disclosure - Unearned Revenue by Segment (Detail)
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink


1098 - Disclosure - Other Long-Term Liabilities (Detail)
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink


1099 - Disclosure - Commitments And Guarantees - Additional Information (Detail)
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink


1100 - Disclosure - Future Minimum Rental Commitments Under Noncancellable Operating Leases (Detail)
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink


1101 - Disclosure - Contingencies - Additional Information (Detail)
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink


1102 - Disclosure - Shares of Common Stock Outstanding (Detail)
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink


1103 - Disclosure - Stockholders' Equity - Additional Information (Detail)
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink


1104 - Disclosure - Share Repurchases (Detail)
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink


1105 - Disclosure - Dividends Declared (Detail)
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink


1106 - Disclosure - Other Comprehensive Income and Related Income Tax Effects (Detail)
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink


1107 - Disclosure - Other Comprehensive Income and Related Income Tax Effects (Parenthetical) (Detail)
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink


1108 - Disclosure - Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Detail)
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink


1109 - Disclosure - Employee Stock and Savings Plans - Additional Information (Detail)
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink


1110 - Disclosure - Stock-Based Compensation Expense and Related Income Tax Benefits (Detail)
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink


1111 - Disclosure - Assumptions Used in Estimating Fair Value of Award Grants (Detail)
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink


1112 - Disclosure - Stock Plan Activity (Detail)
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink


1113 - Disclosure - Share Based Compensation Plans Total Activity (Detail)
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink


1114 - Disclosure - Employee Stock Options Outstanding (Detail)
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink


1115 - Disclosure - Stock Option Exercise Activity (Detail)
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink


1116 - Disclosure - Employee Purchased Shares (Detail)
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink


1117 - Disclosure - Segment Information and Geographic Data - Additional Information (Detail)
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink


1118 - Disclosure - Segment Revenue and Operating Income (Loss) (Detail)
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink


1119 - Disclosure - Significant Reconciling Items (Detail)
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink


1120 - Disclosure - Revenue Classified by Major Geographic Areas (Detail)
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink


1121 - Disclosure - Revenue Classified By Significant Product And Service Offerings (Detail)
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink


1122 - Disclosure - Long-Lived Assets, Excluding Financial Instruments and Tax Assets, Classified by Location of Controlling Statutory Company (Detail)
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink


1123 - Disclosure - Subsequent Events - Additional Information (Detail)
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink


1124 - Disclosure - Quarterly Information (Unaudited) (Detail)
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink


1125 - Disclosure - Quarterly Information (Unaudited) (Parenthetical) (Detail)
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink























































































































































































































































































EX-101.CAL
12
msft-20120630_cal.xml
XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION CALCULATION LINKBASE






















































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































EX-101.DEF
13
msft-20120630_def.xml
XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION DEFINITION LINKBASE







































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































EX-101.LAB
14
msft-20120630_lab.xml
XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION LABEL LINKBASE













Accounts Payable Current
Accounts payable


Accounts Receivable Net Current
Accounts receivable, net of allowance for doubtful accounts of $389 and $333


Accrued Income Taxes Current
Income taxes


Accrued Income Taxes Noncurrent
Tax contingencies and other tax liabilities


Accumulated Depreciation Depletion And Amortization Property Plant And Equipment
Property and equipment, accumulated depreciation
Accumulated depreciation


Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income Loss Available For Sale Securities Adjustment Net Of Tax
Net unrealized gains on investments


Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income Loss Cumulative Changes In Net Gain Loss From Cash Flow Hedges Effect Net Of Tax
Net unrealized gains (losses) on derivatives


Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income Loss Foreign Currency Translation Adjustment Net Of Tax
Translation adjustments and other


Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) [Line Items]
Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income Loss [Line Items]
Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) [Line Items]


Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income Loss Net Of Tax
Retained earnings (deficit), accumulated other comprehensive income
Accumulated other comprehensive income


Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) [Table]
Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income Loss [Table]
Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) [Table]


Acquired Finite Lived Intangible Asset Amount
Amount


Acquired Finite Lived Intangible Assets [Line Items]
Acquired Finite-Lived Intangible Assets [Line Items]


Acquired Finite Lived Intangible Assets Weighted Average Useful Life
Weighted Average Life
Weighted Average Life (years)


The cash outflow associated with the acquisitions of businesses, net of the cash acquired from the purchases, and purchases of intangible and other assets.
Acquisitions Netof Cash Acquired And Purchases Of Intangibleand Other Assets
Acquisition of companies, net of cash acquired, and purchases of intangible and other assets


An additional percentage of the target award pool that may be granted based on individual performance.
Additional Share Pool
Additional percentage of the target award pool that may be granted based on individual performance


Adjustments To Additional Paid In Capital Sharebased Compensation Requisite Service Period Recognition Value
Stock-based compensation expense


Adjustments To Reconcile Net Income Loss To Cash Provided By Used In Operating Activities [Abstract]
Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash from operations:


Adjustment To Additional Paid In Capital Income Tax Effect From Share Based Compensation Net
Stock-based compensation income tax deficiencies


Advertising Expense
Advertising expense


Advertising [Member]
Advertising [Member]
Advertising


The date of entry for the associated agreement.
Agreement Entry Date
Agreement entry date


Allocated Share Based Compensation Expense
Stock-based compensation expense


All Other [Member]
All Other [Member]
Other


All Other Segments [Member]
Other segments


Allowance For Doubtful Accounts [Member]
Allowance for doubtful accounts


Allowance For Doubtful Accounts Receivable Current
Accounts receivable, allowance for doubtful accounts


The entity's schedule of allowance for doubtful accounts including beginning and ending balances, as well as a reconciliation by type of activity during the period.
Allowance For Doubtful Accounts Table [Text Block]
Allowance for Doubtful Accounts


Amendment Flag
Amendment Flag


Amortization Of Intangible Assets
Intangible assets amortization expense


Antidilutive Securities Excluded From Computation Of Earnings Per Share Amount
Shares excluded from calculations of diluted EPS


Antidilutive Securities Excluded From Computation Of Earnings Per Share [Line Items]
Antidilutive Securities Excluded from Computation of Earnings Per Share [Line Items]


Antitrust Litigation [Member]
Antitrust Litigation [Member]
Other Antitrust Litigation and Claims


Antitrust, Unfair Competition, And Overcharge Class Actions [Member]
Antitrust Unfair Competition And Overcharge Class Actions [Member]
Antitrust, Unfair Competition, And Overcharge Class Actions


Arrangements And Nonarrangement Transactions [Member]
Arrangements and Non-arrangement Transactions [Domain]


Assets
Total assets


Assets [Abstract]
Assets


Assets Current
Total current assets


Assets Current [Abstract]
Current assets:


Assets Fair Value Disclosure Recurring
Assets
Net fair value of assets measured at fair value on a recurring basis


Available For Sale Securities
Recorded basis of investment components
Recorded Basis


Available For Sale Securities Amortized Cost
Cost Basis


Availableforsale Securities Continuous Unrealized Loss Position 12 Months Or Longer Aggregate Losses 2
12 Months or Greater - Unrealized Losses


Availableforsale Securities Continuous Unrealized Loss Position Aggregate Losses 2
Total Unrealized Losses


Available For Sale Securities Continuous Unrealized Loss Position Fair Value
Total Fair Value


Availableforsale Securities Continuous Unrealized Loss Position Less Than 12 Months Aggregate Losses 2
Less than 12 Months - Unrealized Losses


Available For Sale Securities Continuous Unrealized Loss Position Less Than Twelve Months Fair Value
Less than 12 Months - Fair Value


Available For Sale Securities Continuous Unrealized Loss Position Twelve Months Or Longer Fair Value
12 Months or Greater - Fair Value


Available For Sale Securities Current
Short-term Investments
Short-term investments (including securities loaned of $785 and $1,181)


Available For Sale Securities Debt Maturities Amortized Cost
Total


Available For Sale Securities Debt Maturities Amortized Cost Basis Rolling Maturity [Abstract]
Cost Basis


Available For Sale Securities Debt Maturities Fair Value Rolling Maturity [Abstract]
Estimated Fair Value


Available For Sale Securities Debt Maturities Next Rolling Twelve Months Amortized Cost Basis
Due in one year or less


Available For Sale Securities Debt Maturities Next Rolling Twelve Months Fair Value
Due in one year or less


Available For Sale Securities Debt Maturities Rolling After Year Ten Amortized Cost Basis
Due after 10 years


Available For Sale Securities Debt Maturities Rolling After Year Ten Fair Value
Due after 10 years


Available For Sale Securities Debt Maturities Rolling Year Six Through Ten Amortized Cost Basis
Due after five years through 10 years


Available For Sale Securities Debt Maturities Rolling Year Six Through Ten Fair Value
Due after five years through 10 years


Available For Sale Securities Debt Maturities Rolling Year Two Through Five Amortized Cost Basis
Due after one year through five years


Available For Sale Securities Debt Maturities Rolling Year Two Through Five Fair Value
Due after one year through five years


Available For Sale Securities Debt Securities
Total


Available For Sale Securities Gross Realized Gains
Realized gains from sales of available-for-sale securities


Available For Sale Securities Gross Realized Losses
Realized losses from sales of available-for-sale securities


Availableforsale Securities Gross Unrealized Gain
Unrealized Gains


Available For Sale Securities Gross Unrealized Losses 1
Unrealized Losses


Average [Member]
Average [Member]
Average


Award Type [Axis]
Award Type [Axis]


Balance Sheet Location [Axis]
Derivatives, Fair Value, by Balance Sheet Location


Balance Sheet Location [Domain]
Balance Sheet Location [Domain]


Basis Of Accounting Policy Policy [Text Block]
Accounting Principles


Building And Building Improvements [Member]
Buildings and Improvements


Building, Building Improvements and Leasehold Improvements [Member]
Building Building Improvements And Leasehold Improvements [Member]
Building, Building Improvements and Leasehold Improvements


Buildings And Improvements Gross
Buildings and improvements


Business Acquisition Acquiree [Domain]
Business Acquisition, Acquiree [Domain]


Business Acquisition [Axis]
Business Acquisition


Business Acquisition Cost Of Acquired Entity Cash Paid
Acquisition of Yammer Inc.
Cash paid to acquire the business


Business Acquisition Effective Date Of Acquisition 1
Acquisition date
Date of acquisition


Business Acquisition [Line Items]
Business Acquisition [Line Items]


Business Acquisition Name Of Acquired Entity
Name of acquired entity


Business Acquisition Purchase Price Allocation Amortizable Intangible Assets
Identifiable intangible assets acquired


Business Acquisition Purchase Price Allocation Current Liabilities Deferred Revenue
Unearned revenue acquired


Business Acquisition Purchase Price Allocation Goodwill Amount
Goodwill acquired


The number of entities sold during the period.
Business Dispositions Number Of Entities Sold
Number of entities sold


C A
Canada


Capitalized Computer Software Amortization
Amortization of capitalized software


Capital Unit [Line Items]
Capital Unit [Line Items]


Cases Stayed [Member]
Cases Stayed [Member]
Cases Stayed


Cash And Cash Equivalents At Carrying Value
Cash and cash equivalents, end of period
Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of period
Cash and Cash Equivalents


Cash And Cash Equivalents Fair Value Disclosure
Cash


Cash And Cash Equivalents Period Increase Decrease
Net change in cash and cash equivalents


The maximum percentage of an employee's salary that they may contribute to the savings plan.
Cash Arrangement Employee Subscription Rate
Percentage of salary participating U.S. employees may contribute to the savings plan


Cash, Cash Equivalents and Investments [Line Items]
Cash Cash Equivalents And Investments [Line Items]
Cash, Cash Equivalents and Investments [Line Items]


Cash, Cash Equivalents and Investments [Table]
Cash Cash Equivalents And Investments [Table]
Cash, Cash Equivalents and Investments [Table]


Cash Cash Equivalents And Marketable Securities [Text Block]
Investments


Cash Cash Equivalents And Short Term Investments
Total cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments


Cash Flow Hedging [Member]
Cash flow hedging


Cash [Member]
Cash


Certain Long-Lived Assets by Geography [Line Items]
Certain Long Lived Assets By Geography [Line Items]
Certain Long-Lived Assets by Geography [Line Items]


Certain Long-Lived Assets by Geography [Table]
Certain Long Lived Assets By Geography [Table]
Certain Long-Lived Assets by Geography [Table]


Certificates Of Deposit [Member]
Certificates of deposit


Change In Unrealized Gain Loss On Fair Value Hedging Instruments
Derivatives


Change In Unrealized Gain Loss On Hedged Item In Fair Value Hedge
Hedged items


Commercial Paper [Member]
Commercial paper


Commitments And Contingencies
Commitments and contingencies


Disclosure of significant arrangements with third parties and guarantee obligations.
Commitments And Guarantees Disclosure [Text Block]
Commitments And Guarantees


Commitments Fair Value Disclosure
Committed for construction of new buildings, building improvements and leasehold improvements


Commodity Contract [Member]
Commodity Contracts


Common Stock Dividends Per Share Declared
Cash dividends declared per common share
Dividend Per Share


Common Stock Including Additional Paid In Capital
Common stock and paid-in capital - shares authorized 24,000; outstanding 8,381 and 8,376


Common Stock Including Additional Paid In Capital [Member]
Common stock and paid-in capital


Common Stock Shares Authorized
Common stock, shares authorized


Common Stock Shares Outstanding
Balance, end of year
Balance, beginning of year
Common stock, outstanding


Compensation And Employee Benefit Plans [Text Block]
Employee Stock and Savings Plans


Compensation Related Costs Disclosure [Line Items]
Compensation Related Costs Disclosure [Line Items]
Compensation Related Costs Disclosure [Line Items]


Compensation Related Costs Disclosure [Table]
Compensation Related Costs Disclosure [Table]
Compensation Related Costs Disclosure [Table]


Component Of Other Income Nonoperating [Line Items]
Component of Other Income, Nonoperating [Line Items]


Component Of Other Income Nonoperating [Table]
Component of Other Income, Nonoperating [Table]


Comprehensive Income Net Of Tax
Comprehensive income


Comprehensive Income Note [Text Block]
Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)


Computer Equipment [Member]
Computer Equipment


Computer hardware and software.
Computer Hardware And Software
Computer equipment and software


Concentration Risk Customer
Sales to an individual customer


Consolidation Policy [Text Block]
Principles of Consolidation


Consulting and product support services [Member]
Consulting And Product Support Services [Member]
Consulting and product support services


Contingencies Disclosed in Contingencies Note [Member]
Contingencies Disclosed In Contingencies Note [Member]
Contingencies Disclosed in Contingencies Note


The term of the contract.
Contract Term
Term of Yahoo! agreement


Contractual Rights [Member]
Contract-based


Convertible Debt Current
Current portion of long-term debt


Convertible Debt [Member]
Convertible Debt


Corporate Debt Securities [Member]
Corporate notes and bonds


Cost Method Investments
Common and preferred stock measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis
Recorded basis of common and preferred stock and other investments that are restricted for more than one year or are not publicly traded


Cost Of Revenue
Cost of revenue


Cost Of Sales Policy [Text Block]
Cost of Revenue


Costs And Expenses
Total operating expenses


Costs And Expenses [Abstract]
Operating expenses:


Credit Risk and Counterparty Netting [Member]
Credit Risk And Counterparty Netting [Member]
Netting


Credit Risk Contract [Member]
Credit Contracts


Current Federal Tax Expense Benefit
U.S. federal


Current Fiscal Year End Date
Current Fiscal Year End Date


Current Foreign Tax Expense Benefit
International


Current Income Tax Expense Benefit
Current taxes


Current Income Tax Expense Benefit [Abstract]
Current Taxes


Current State And Local Tax Expense Benefit
U.S. state and local


Customer Relationships [Member]
Customer-related


D E
GERMANY


Debt Disclosure [Text Block]
Debt


Debt Instrument [Axis]
Debt Instrument


The date on which the terms of the potential conversion of the notes change.
Debt Instrument Convertible Change Date
Terms of conversion change date


The principal amount of each convertible note.
Debt Instrument Convertible Conversion Face Amount
Principal amount of each convertible note


Debt Instrument Convertible Conversion Price 1
Conversion price per share of convertible notes


The number of shares of Microsoft common stock into which each $1,000 principal amount of notes may convert.
Debt Instrument Convertible Equity Instruments In Conversion
Shares of Microsoft common stock into which each $1,000 principal amount of notes may convert


Debt Instrument Credit Rating
Long-term unsecured debt rating


Debt Instrument Face Amount
Face value
Total
Principal amount of outstanding long-term debt


The date as of when a holder must own the debt instrument to be entitled to the interest.
Debt Instrument Interest Payable Date Of Record Day And Month
Interest Record Date


Debt Instrument Interest Rate Effective Percentage
Effective Interest Rate


The date on which periodic interest payments are due.
Debt Instrument Interest Rate Payment Day And Month
Interest Pay Date


Debt Instrument Interest Rate Stated Percentage
Stated Interest Rate


Debt Instrument [Line Items]
Debt Instrument [Line Items]


Debt Instrument Maturity Date
Debt instrument maturity date
Debt maturity date


Debt Instrument Name [Domain]
Debt Instrument, Name [Domain]


Debt Instrument [Table]
Schedule of Long-term Debt Instruments [Table]


Debt Instrument Unamortized Discount
Unamortized discount


Debt [Member]
Debt


Deferred Income Taxes And Tax Credits
Deferred taxes


Deferred Income Taxes And Tax Credits [Abstract]
Deferred Taxes


Deferred Income Tax Expense Benefit
Deferred income taxes


Deferred Income Tax Liabilities
Deferred income tax liabilities


Deferred Revenue
Unearned revenue


Deferred Revenue Arrangement By Type [Table]
Deferred Revenue Arrangement, by Type [Table]


Deferred Revenue Arrangement [Line Items]
Deferred Revenue Arrangement [Line Items]


Deferred Revenue Arrangement Type [Axis]
Deferred Revenue Arrangement Type


Deferred Revenue Arrangement Type Detail [Axis]
Deferred Revenue Arrangement Type Detail [Axis]
Deferred Revenue Arrangement Type Detail [Axis]


Deferred Revenue Arrangement Type Detail [Domain]
Deferred Revenue Arrangement Type Detail [Domain]
Deferred Revenue Arrangement Type Detail [Domain]


Deferred Revenue Arrangement Type [Domain]
Deferred Revenue Arrangement Type [Domain]


Deferred Revenue By Arrangement Disclosure [Text Block]
Components of Unearned Revenue


Table of deferred revenue by reportable segment.
Deferred Revenue By Segment [Text Block]
Unearned Revenue by Segment


Deferred Revenue Current
Short-term unearned revenue


Deferred Revenue Disclosure [Text Block]
Unearned Revenue


Deferred Revenue Noncurrent
Long-term unearned revenue


Deferred Tax Assets Capital Loss Carryforwards
Loss carryforwards


Deferred Tax Assets Deferred Income
Unearned revenue


Deferred Tax Assets Gross
Deferred income tax assets


Deferred Tax Assets Liabilities Net
Net deferred income tax assets


Deferred Tax Assets Liabilities Net [Abstract]
Reported As


Deferred Tax Assets Liabilities Net Current
Current deferred income tax assets
Deferred income taxes


Deferred Tax Assets Liabilities Net Noncurrent
Long-term deferred income tax liabilities


Deferred Tax Assets Net
Deferred income tax assets, net of valuation allowance


Deferred Tax Assets Net [Abstract]
Deferred Income Tax Assets


Deferred Tax Assets Other
Other revenue items


Deferred Tax Assets Tax Deferred Expense Compensation And Benefits Share Based Compensation Cost
Stock-based compensation expense


Deferred Tax Assets Tax Deferred Expense Other
Other expense items


Deferred Tax Assets Tax Deferred Expense Reserves And Accruals Impairment Losses
Impaired investments


Deferred Tax Assets Valuation Allowance
Less valuation allowance


Deferred Tax Liabilities [Abstract]
Deferred Income Tax Liabilities


Amount of deferred tax liability attributable to taxable temporary differences from depreciation and amortization.
Deferred Tax Liabilities Depreciation And Amortization
Depreciation and amortization


Deferred Tax Liabilities Noncurrent
Deferred income taxes


Deferred Tax Liabilities Other
Other


Deferred Tax Liabilities Other Comprehensive Income
Unrealized gain on investments


Deferred Tax Liabilities Undistributed Foreign Earnings
International earnings


Deferred Tax Liability Not Recognized Amount Of Unrecognized Deferred Tax Liability
Unrecognized tax liability on temporary differences resulting from earnings for certain non-U.S. subsidiaries which are permanently reinvested outside the United States


Defined Contribution Plan Cost Recognized
Matching contributions for all employee savings plans


Defined Contribution Plan Employer Matching Contribution Percentage
Defined Contribution Plan Employer Matching Contribution Percentage
Company contribution amount for each dollar a participant contributes to the savings plan


Defined Contribution Plan Maximum Annual Contribution Per Employee Percent
Percentage of employee's earnings the company may contribute to the savings plan


Deposits Received For Securities Loaned At Carrying Value
Securities lending payable


Depreciation
Depreciation expense


The aggregate net amount of depreciation, amortization, and accretion recognized during an accounting period, and other operating transactions that are not included elsewhere in the statement of cash flows.
Depreciation Amortization And Other
Depreciation, amortization, and other


Derivative Assets [Abstract]
Assets


Derivative Assets Current
Less derivative assets classified as other current assets


Derivative By Nature [Axis]
Derivative, by Nature


Derivative Contract Type [Domain]
Derivative Contract Type [Domain]


Derivative Fair Value Of Derivative Asset
Derivative asset
Derivatives


Derivative Fair Value Of Derivative Liability
Derivatives


Derivative Financial Instruments Assets [Member]
Derivative assets


Derivative Financial Instruments Liabilities [Member]
Derivatives and other


Derivative Instrument Risk [Axis]
Derivative Instrument Risk


Derivative Instruments And Hedging Activities Disclosure [Text Block]
Derivatives


Derivative Instruments Gain Loss By Hedging Relationship [Axis]
Hedging Relationship [Axis]


Derivative Instruments Gain Loss By Hedging Relationship By Income Statement Location By Derivative Instrument Risk [Table]
Derivative Instruments, Gain (Loss) by Hedging Relationship, by Income Statement Location, by Derivative Instrument Risk [Table]


Derivative Instruments Gain Loss [Line Items]
Derivative Instruments, Gain (Loss) [Line Items]


Derivative Instruments Gain Loss Recognized In Income Ineffective Portion And Amount Excluded From Effectiveness Testing Net
Loss recognized in other income (expense)


Derivative Instruments Gain Loss Recognized In Income Ineffective Portion And Amount Excluded From Effectiveness Testing Net [Abstract]
Amount Excluded from Effectiveness Assessment and Ineffective Portion


Derivative Instruments Not Designated As Hedging Instruments Gain Loss Net
Changes in fair value of derivatives not designated as hedges


Derivative Liabilities [Abstract]
Liabilities


Derivative [Line Items]
Derivative [Line Items]


Derivative Name [Domain]
Derivative, Name [Domain]


Derivative Notional Amount
Notional amounts


Derivatives Fair Value [Line Items]
Derivatives, Fair Value [Line Items]


Derivatives Purchased [Member]
Derivatives Purchased [Member]
Derivatives Purchased


Derivatives Sold [Member]
Derivatives Sold [Member]
Derivatives Sold


Derivative [Table]
Derivative [Table]


Description Of New Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Adopted
Recent accounting guidance not yet adopted


Designated As Hedging Instrument [Member]
Designated hedge derivatives


Disclosure - Accounting Policies - Additional Information [Abstract]
Disclosure Accounting Policies Additional Information [Abstract]
Disclosure - Accounting Policies - Additional Information [Abstract]


Disclosure - Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income [Abstract]
Disclosure Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income [Abstract]
Disclosure - Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income [Abstract]


Disclosure - Acquired Intangible Assets [Abstract]
Disclosure Acquired Intangible Assets [Abstract]
Disclosure - Acquired Intangible Assets [Abstract]


Disclosure - Allowance for Doubtful Accounts [Abstract]
Disclosure Allowance For Doubtful Accounts [Abstract]
Disclosure - Allowance for Doubtful Accounts [Abstract]


Disclosure - Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on Recurring Basis [Abstract]
Disclosure Assets And Liabilities Measured At Fair Value On Recurring Basis [Abstract]
Disclosure - Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on Recurring Basis [Abstract]


Disclosure - Assumptions Used in Estimating Fair Value of Award Grants [Abstract]
Disclosure Assumptions Used In Estimating Fair Value Of Award Grants [Abstract]
Disclosure - Assumptions Used in Estimating Fair Value of Award Grants [Abstract]


Disclosure - Basic and Diluted Earnings Per Share [Abstract]
Disclosure Basic And Diluted Earnings Per Share [Abstract]
Disclosure - Basic and Diluted Earnings Per Share [Abstract]


Disclosure - Business Combinations - Additional Information [Abstract]
Disclosure Business Combinations Additional Information [Abstract]
Disclosure - Business Combinations - Additional Information [Abstract]


Disclosure - Carrying Amount of Goodwill [Abstract]
Disclosure Carrying Amount Of Goodwill [Abstract]
Disclosure - Carrying Amount of Goodwill [Abstract]


Disclosure - Changes in Financial Instruments Measured at Level 3 Fair Value on Recurring Basis [Abstract]
Disclosure Changes In Financial Instruments Measured At Level 3 Fair Value On Recurring Basis [Abstract]
Disclosure - Changes in Financial Instruments Measured at Level 3 Fair Value on Recurring Basis [Abstract]


Disclosure - Changes in Unrecognized Tax Benefits [Abstract]
Disclosure Changes In Unrecognized Tax Benefits [Abstract]
Disclosure - Changes in Unrecognized Tax Benefits [Abstract]


Disclosure - Commitments And Guarantees - Additional Information [Abstract]
Disclosure Commitments And Guarantees Additional Information [Abstract]
Disclosure - Commitments And Guarantees - Additional Information [Abstract]


Disclosure - Components of Inventories [Abstract]
Disclosure Components Of Inventories [Abstract]
Disclosure - Components of Inventories [Abstract]


Disclosure - Components of Other Income (Expense) [Abstract]
Disclosure Components Of Other Income Expense [Abstract]
Disclosure - Components of Other Income (Expense) [Abstract]


Disclosure - Components of Property and Equipment [Abstract]
Disclosure Components Of Property And Equipment [Abstract]
Disclosure - Components of Property and Equipment [Abstract]


Disclosure - Components of Unearned Revenue [Abstract]
Disclosure Components Of Unearned Revenue [Abstract]
Disclosure - Components of Unearned Revenue [Abstract]


Disclosure - Contingencies - Additional Information [Abstract]
Disclosure Contingencies Additional Information [Abstract]
Disclosure - Contingencies - Additional Information [Abstract]


Disclosure - Debt - Additional Information [Abstract]
Disclosure Debt Additional Information [Abstract]
Disclosure - Debt - Additional Information [Abstract]


Disclosure - Debt Investment Maturities [Abstract]
Disclosure Debt Investment Maturities [Abstract]
Disclosure - Debt Investment Maturities [Abstract]


Disclosure - Deferred Income Tax Assets and Liabilities [Abstract]
Disclosure Deferred Income Tax Assets And Liabilities [Abstract]
Disclosure - Deferred Income Tax Assets and Liabilities [Abstract]


Disclosure - Derivatives - Additional Information [Abstract]
Disclosure Derivatives Additional Information [Abstract]
Disclosure - Derivatives - Additional Information [Abstract]


Disclosure - Difference Between Income Taxes Computed at Federal Statutory Rate and Provision for Income Taxes [Abstract]
Disclosure Difference Between Income Taxes Computed At Federal Statutory Rate And Provision For Income Taxes [Abstract]
Disclosure - Difference Between Income Taxes Computed at Federal Statutory Rate and Provision for Income Taxes [Abstract]


Disclosure - Dividends Declared [Abstract]
Disclosure Dividends Declared [Abstract]
Disclosure - Dividends Declared [Abstract]


Disclosure - Earnings Per Share - Additional Information [Abstract]
Disclosure Earnings Per Share Additional Information [Abstract]
Disclosure - Earnings Per Share - Additional Information [Abstract]


Disclosure - Employee Purchased Shares [Abstract]
Disclosure Employee Purchased Shares [Abstract]
Disclosure - Employee Purchased Shares [Abstract]


Disclosure - Employee Stock and Savings Plans - Additional Information [Abstract]
Disclosure Employee Stock And Savings Plans Additional Information [Abstract]
Disclosure - Employee Stock and Savings Plans - Additional Information [Abstract]


Disclosure - Employee Stock Options Outstanding [Abstract]
Disclosure Employee Stock Options Outstanding [Abstract]
Disclosure - Employee Stock Options Outstanding [Abstract]


Disclosure - Estimated Future Amortization Expense Related to Intangible Assets [Abstract]
Disclosure Estimated Future Amortization Expense Related To Intangible Assets [Abstract]
Disclosure - Estimated Future Amortization Expense Related to Intangible Assets [Abstract]


Disclosure - Fair Values of Derivative Instruments [Abstract]
Disclosure Fair Values Of Derivative Instruments [Abstract]
Disclosure - Fair Values of Derivative Instruments [Abstract]


Disclosure - Finite-Lived Intangible Assets [Abstract]
Disclosure Finite Lived Intangible Assets [Abstract]
Disclosure - Finite-Lived Intangible Assets [Abstract]


Disclosure - Future Minimum Rental Commitments Under Noncancellable Operating Leases [Abstract]
Disclosure Future Minimum Rental Commitments Under Noncancellable Operating Leases [Abstract]
Disclosure - Future Minimum Rental Commitments Under Noncancellable Operating Leases [Abstract]


Disclosure - Gains (Losses) on Fair Value Hedges and Related Hedged Items [Abstract]
Disclosure Gains Losses On Fair Value Hedges And Related Hedged Items [Abstract]
Disclosure - Gains (Losses) on Fair Value Hedges and Related Hedged Items [Abstract]


Disclosure - Gains (Losses) Related to Cash Flow Hedges [Abstract]
Disclosure Gains Losses Related To Cash Flow Hedges [Abstract]
Disclosure - Gains (Losses) Related to Cash Flow Hedges [Abstract]


Disclosure - Goodwill - Additional Information [Abstract]
Disclosure Goodwill Additional Information [Abstract]
Disclosure - Goodwill - Additional Information [Abstract]


Disclosure - Income Before Income Taxes [Abstract]
Disclosure Income Before Income Taxes [Abstract]
Disclosure - Income Before Income Taxes [Abstract]


Disclosure - Income Taxes - Additional Information [Abstract]
Disclosure Income Taxes Additional Information [Abstract]
Disclosure - Income Taxes - Additional Information [Abstract]


Disclosure - Income Taxes - Additional Information Regarding Examinations [Abstract]
Disclosure Income Taxes Additional Information Regarding Examinations [Abstract]
Disclosure - Income Taxes - Additional Information Regarding Examinations [Abstract]


Disclosure - Intangible Assets Acquired [Abstract]
Disclosure Intangible Assets Acquired [Abstract]
Disclosure - Intangible Assets Acquired [Abstract]


Disclosure - Intangible Assets - Additional Information [Abstract]
Disclosure Intangible Assets Additional Information [Abstract]
Disclosure - Intangible Assets - Additional Information [Abstract]


Disclosure - Investment Components, Including Associated Derivatives [Abstract]
Disclosure Investment Components Including Associated Derivatives [Abstract]
Disclosure - Investment Components, Including Associated Derivatives [Abstract]


Disclosure - Investments - Additional Information [Abstract]
Disclosure Investments Additional Information [Abstract]
Disclosure - Investments - Additional Information [Abstract]


Disclosure - Long-Lived Assets, Excluding Financial Instruments and Tax Assets, Classified by Location of Controlling Statutory Company [Abstract]
Disclosure Long Lived Assets Excluding Financial Instruments And Tax Assets Classified By Location Of Controlling Statutory Company [Abstract]
Disclosure - Long-Lived Assets, Excluding Financial Instruments and Tax Assets, Classified by Location of Controlling Statutory Company [Abstract]


Disclosure - Long-term Debt [Abstract]
Disclosure Longterm Debt [Abstract]
Disclosure - Long-term Debt [Abstract]


Disclosure - Maturities of Long-term Debt [Abstract]
Disclosure Maturities Of Longterm Debt [Abstract]
Disclosure - Maturities of Long-term Debt [Abstract]


Disclosure - Net Recognized Gains (Losses) on Investments [Abstract]
Disclosure Net Recognized Gains Losses On Investments [Abstract]
Disclosure - Net Recognized Gains (Losses) on Investments [Abstract]


Disclosure - Non-Designated Derivative Gains (Losses) [Abstract]
Disclosure Non Designated Derivative Gains Losses [Abstract]
Disclosure - Non-Designated Derivative Gains (Losses) [Abstract]


Disclosure Of Share Based Compensation Arrangements By Share Based Payment Award [Text Block]
Stock Plan Activity


Disclosure - Other Comprehensive Income and Related Income Tax Effects [Abstract]
Disclosure Other Comprehensive Income And Related Income Tax Effects [Abstract]
Disclosure - Other Comprehensive Income and Related Income Tax Effects [Abstract]


Disclosure - Other Long-Term Liabilities [Abstract]
Disclosure Other Long Term Liabilities [Abstract]
Disclosure - Other Long-Term Liabilities [Abstract]


Disclosure - Property and Equipment - Additional Information [Abstract]
Disclosure Property And Equipment Additional Information [Abstract]
Disclosure - Property and Equipment - Additional Information [Abstract]


Disclosure - Provision for Income Taxes [Abstract]
Disclosure Provision For Income Taxes [Abstract]
Disclosure - Provision for Income Taxes [Abstract]


Disclosure - Quarterly Information (Unaudited) [Abstract]
Disclosure Quarterly Information Unaudited [Abstract]
Disclosure - Quarterly Information (Unaudited) [Abstract]


Disclosure - Reconciliation of Total Assets Measured at Fair Value on Recurring Basis to Balance Sheet Presentation [Abstract]
Disclosure Reconciliation Of Total Assets Measured At Fair Value On Recurring Basis To Balance Sheet Presentation [Abstract]
Disclosure - Reconciliation of Total Assets Measured at Fair Value on Recurring Basis to Balance Sheet Presentation [Abstract]


Disclosure - Revenue Classified by Major Geographic Areas [Abstract]
Disclosure Revenue Classified By Major Geographic Areas [Abstract]
Disclosure - Revenue Classified by Major Geographic Areas [Abstract]


Disclosure - Revenue Classified By Significant Product And Service Offerings [Abstract]
Disclosure Revenue Classified By Significant Product And Service Offerings [Abstract]
Disclosure - Revenue Classified By Significant Product And Service Offerings [Abstract]


Disclosure - Segment Information and Geographic Data - Additional Information [Abstract]
Disclosure Segment Information And Geographic Data Additional Information [Abstract]
Disclosure - Segment Information and Geographic Data - Additional Information [Abstract]


Disclosure - Segment Revenue and Operating Income (Loss) [Abstract]
Disclosure Segment Revenue And Operating Income Loss [Abstract]
Disclosure - Segment Revenue and Operating Income (Loss) [Abstract]


Disclosure - Share Based Compensation Plans Total Activity [Abstract]
Disclosure Share Based Compensation Plans Total Activity [Abstract]
Disclosure - Share Based Compensation Plans Total Activity [Abstract]


Disclosure - Share Repurchases [Abstract]
Disclosure Share Repurchases [Abstract]
Disclosure - Share Repurchases [Abstract]


Disclosure - Shares Excluded From Calculation of EPS [Abstract]
Disclosure Shares Excluded From Calculation Of E P S [Abstract]
Disclosure - Shares Excluded From Calculation of EPS [Abstract]


Disclosure - Shares of Common Stock Outstanding [Abstract]
Disclosure Shares Of Common Stock Outstanding [Abstract]
Disclosure - Shares of Common Stock Outstanding [Abstract]


Disclosure - Significant Reconciling Items [Abstract]
Disclosure Significant Reconciling Items [Abstract]
Disclosure - Significant Reconciling Items [Abstract]


Disclosure - Stock-Based Compensation Expense and Related Income Tax Benefits [Abstract]
Disclosure Stock Based Compensation Expense And Related Income Tax Benefits [Abstract]
Disclosure - Stock-Based Compensation Expense and Related Income Tax Benefits [Abstract]


Disclosure - Stockholders' Equity - Additional Information [Abstract]
Disclosure Stockholders Equity Additional Information [Abstract]
Disclosure - Stockholders' Equity - Additional Information [Abstract]


Disclosure - Stock Option Exercise Activity [Abstract]
Disclosure Stock Option Exercise Activity [Abstract]
Disclosure - Stock Option Exercise Activity [Abstract]


Disclosure - Stock Plan Activity [Abstract]
Disclosure Stock Plan Activity [Abstract]
Disclosure - Stock Plan Activity [Abstract]


Disclosure - Subsequent Events - Additional Information [Abstract]
Disclosure Subsequent Events Additional Information [Abstract]
Disclosure - Subsequent Events - Additional Information [Abstract]


Disclosure - Unearned Revenue by Segment [Abstract]
Disclosure Unearned Revenue By Segment [Abstract]
Disclosure - Unearned Revenue by Segment [Abstract]


Disclosure - Unrealized Loss Position Investments [Abstract]
Disclosure Unrealized Loss Position Investments [Abstract]
Disclosure - Unrealized Loss Position Investments [Abstract]


Dividend Payable Date To Be Paid Day Month And Year
Payment Date


Dividends Common Stock Cash
Total Amount
Common stock cash dividends


Tabular disclosure of the dividends declared during the periods presented.
Dividends Declared Table [Text Block]
Dividends Declared


Dividends [Line Items]
Dividends [Line Items]
Dividends [Line Items]


Dividends Payable Date Declared Day Month And Year
Declaration Date


Dividends Payable Date Of Record Day Month And Year
Record Date


Dividends [Table]
Dividends [Table]
Dividends [Table]


Document - Document and Entity Information [Abstract]
Document Documentand Entity Information [Abstract]
Document - Document and Entity Information [Abstract]


Document Fiscal Period Focus
Document Fiscal Period Focus


Document Fiscal Year Focus
Document Fiscal Year Focus


Document Period End Date
Document Period End Date


Document Type
Document Type


Earnings Per Share [Abstract]
Earnings Per Share
Earnings per share:


Earnings Per Share Basic
Basic earnings (loss) per share
Basic
Basic (A/B)


Earnings Per Share Diluted
Diluted earnings (loss) per share
Diluted
Diluted (A/C)


The impact of the goodwill impairment on earnings per share.
Earnings Per Share Goodwill Impairment
Decrease in diluted earnings per share


Earnings Per Share [Text Block]
Earnings Per Share


Effective Income Tax Rate Continuing Operations
Effective tax rate
Effective rate


Effective Income Tax Rate Continuing Operations Tax Rate Reconciliation [Abstract]
Effect of:


Effective Income Tax Rate Reconciliation At Federal Statutory Income Tax Rate
Federal statutory rate


Effective Income Tax Rate Reconciliation Foreign Income Tax Rate Differential
Foreign earnings taxed at lower rates


The portion of the difference between the effective income tax rate and domestic federal statutory income tax rate that can be explained by the nondeductible impairment of goodwill.
Effective Income Tax Rate Reconciliation Goodwill Impairment
Goodwill impairment


Effective Income Tax Rate Reconciliation Other Adjustments
Other reconciling items, net


Effective Income Tax Rate Reconciliation Tax Settlements Domestic
I.R.S. settlement


Effect Of Cash Flow Hedges On Results Of Operations [Abstract]
Effective Portion


Effect Of Exchange Rate On Cash And Cash Equivalents
Effect of exchange rates on cash and cash equivalents


Employee Related Liabilities Current
Accrued compensation


Employee Service Share Based Compensation Allocation Of Recognized Period Costs [Line Items]
Employee Service Share-based Compensation, Allocation of Recognized Period Costs [Line Items]


Employee Service Share Based Compensation Cash Received From Exercise Of Stock Options
Cash received from stock option exercises


Employee Service Share Based Compensation Nonvested Awards Total Compensation Cost Not Yet Recognized
Unrecognized compensation costs


Employee Service Share Based Compensation Nonvested Awards Total Compensation Cost Not Yet Recognized Period For Recognition 1
Unrecognized compensation costs are expected to be recognized over a weighted average period (years)


Employee Service Share Based Compensation Tax Benefit From Compensation Expense
Income tax benefits related to stock-based compensation


Employee Service Share Based Compensation Tax Benefit Realized From Exercise Of Stock Options
Tax benefit realized from stock option exercises


Employee Stock [Member]
Employee Stock


Employee Stock Purchase Plan [Line Items]
Employee Stock Purchase Plan [Line Items]
Employee Stock Purchase Plan [Line Items]


Describes the entity's accounting policy for recognizing and reporting costs associated with the company's employee stock purchase plan.
Employee Stock Purchase Plan Policy [Text Block]
Employee Stock Purchase Plan


Employee Stock Purchase Plan [Table]
Employee Stock Purchase Plan [Table]
Employee Stock Purchase Plan [Table]


Entertainment and Devices Division[Member]
Entertainment And Devices Division [Member]
Entertainment and Devices Division


Entity Central Index Key
Entity Central Index Key


Entity Common Stock Shares Outstanding
Entity Common Stock, Shares Outstanding


Entity Current Reporting Status
Entity Current Reporting Status


Entity [Domain]
Entity [Domain]


Entity Filer Category
Entity Filer Category


Entity Listing Par Value Per Share
Entity Common Stock, Par Value Per Share


Entity Public Float
Entity Public Float


Entity Registrant Name
Entity Registrant Name


Entity Tax Identification Number
I.R.S. Employer Identification No.


Entity Voluntary Filers
Entity Voluntary Filers


Entity Well Known Seasoned Issuer
Entity Well-known Seasoned Issuer


Entity Wide Disclosure On Geographic Areas Long Lived Assets In Entitys Country Of Domicile
United States


Entity Wide Disclosure On Geographic Areas Long Lived Assets In Foreign Countries
Other countries


Amount of long-lived assets other than financial instruments, long-term customer relationships of a financial institution, mortgage and other servicing rights, deferred policy acquisition costs, and deferred tax assets, located worldwide.
Entity Wide Disclosure On Geographic Areas Long Lived Assets Total
Total


Entity Wide Disclosure On Geographic Areas Revenue From External Customers Attributed To Entitys Country Of Domicile
United States


Entity Wide Disclosure On Geographic Areas Revenue From External Customers Attributed To Foreign Countries
Other countries


Entity Wide Information Revenue From External Customer [Line Items]
Revenue from External Customer [Line Items]


Equity Component [Domain]
Equity Component [Domain]


Equity Contract [Member]
Equity Contracts


Equity [Member]
Equity


Equity Method Investments
Other investments measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis


Equity Securities [Member]
Common and preferred stock


The estimated remaining cost of the guarantee provided to the counterparty to the guarantee agreement.
Estimated Remaining Cost Of Guarantee
Estimated total remaining cost of the revenue per search guarantees


Excess Tax Benefit From Share Based Compensation Financing Activities
Excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation


Excess Tax Benefit From Share Based Compensation Operating Activities
Excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation


Executive Officer Incentive Plan [Member]
Executive Officer Incentive Plan [Member]
Executive Officer Incentive Plan


Expected Amortization Expense [Line Items]
Expected Amortization Expense [Line Items]
Expected Amortization Expense [Line Items]


Expected Amortization Expense [Table]
Expected Amortization Expense [Table]
Expected Amortization Expense [Table]


Fair Value Assets And Liabilities Measured On Recurring And Nonrecurring Basis [Line Items]
Fair Value, Assets and Liabilities Measured on Recurring and Nonrecurring Basis [Line Items]


Fair Value Assets And Liabilities Measured On Recurring And Nonrecurring Basis [Table]
Fair Value Measurements, Recurring and Nonrecurring [Table]


Fair Value Assets Measured On Recurring Basis Change In Unrealized Gain Loss Included In Other Income
Change in unrealized gains (losses) included in other income (expense) related to assets held as of period end


Fair Value Assets Measured On Recurring Basis Unobservable Input Reconciliation By Asset Class [Domain]
Fair Value by Asset Class [Domain]


Fair Value Assets Measured On Recurring Basis Unobservable Input Reconciliation Calculation [Roll Forward]
Total realized and unrealized gains (losses):


Fair Value Assets Measured On Recurring Basis Unobservable Input Reconciliation [Line Items]
Fair Value, Assets Measured on Recurring Basis, Unobservable Input Reconciliation [Line Items]


Fair Value Assets Measured On Recurring Basis Unobservable Input Reconciliation [Table]
Fair Value, Assets Measured on Recurring Basis, Unobservable Input Reconciliation [Table]


Fair Value Assets Measured On Recurring Basis Unobservable Input Reconciliation [Text Block]
Changes in Financial Instruments Measured at Level 3 Fair Value on Recurring Basis


Fair Value By Asset Class [Axis]
Fair Value by Asset Class


Fair Value By Balance Sheet Grouping Disclosure Item Amounts [Axis]
Fair Value, by Balance Sheet Grouping, Disclosure Item Amounts


Fair Value By Fair Value Hierarchy Level [Axis]
Fair Value, Hierarchy [Axis]


Fair Value By Measurement Frequency [Axis]
Fair Value by Measurement Frequency


Fair Value Disclosure Item Amounts [Domain]
Fair Value, Disclosure Item Amounts [Domain]


Fair Value Disclosures [Text Block]
Fair Value Measurements


Fair Value Hedging [Member]
Fair value hedging


Fair Value Inputs Level 1 [Member]
Level 1


Fair Value Inputs Level 2 [Member]
Level 2


Fair Value Inputs Level 3 [Member]
Level 3


Fair Value Measurement Frequency [Domain]
Fair Value, Measurement Frequency [Domain]


Fair Value Measurements Fair Value Hierarchy [Domain]
Fair Value, Measurements, Fair Value Hierarchy [Domain]


Fair Value Measurements Nonrecurring [Member]
Fair Value, Measurements, Nonrecurring


Fair Value Measurements Recurring [Member]
Fair Value, Measurements, Recurring


Fair Value Measurement With Unobservable Inputs Reconciliation Recurring Basis Asset Gain Loss Included In Earnings 1
Included in other income (expense)


Fair Value Measurement With Unobservable Inputs Reconciliation Recurring Basis Asset Gain Loss Included In Other Comprehensive Income Loss
Included in other comprehensive income


Fair Value Measurement With Unobservable Inputs Reconciliation Recurring Basis Asset Purchases Sales Issuances Settlements
Purchases, issuances and settlements


Fair Value Measurement With Unobservable Inputs Reconciliation Recurring Basis Asset Transfers Out Of Level 3
Conversions of Level 3 instruments to Level 1 instruments


Fair Value Measurement With Unobservable Inputs Reconciliation Recurring Basis Asset Value
Balance, end of period
Balance, beginning of period


Fair Value Of Financial Instruments Policy
Fair Value Measurements


Fair Values Derivatives Balance Sheet Location By Derivative Contract Type By Hedging Designation [Table]
Fair Values Derivatives, Balance Sheet Location, by Derivative Contract Type [Table]


Describes an entity's accounting policies for investments in financial assets, including marketable securities (debt and equity securities with readily determinable fair values), investments accounted for under the equity method and cost method, securities borrowed and loaned, and repurchase and resale agreements. For marketable securities, the description may include the entity's accounting treatment for transfers between investment categories and how the fair values for such securities are determined. Also, for all investments, an entity may describe its policy for assessing, recognizing and measuring impairment of the investment. Also includes the accounting policies for its derivative instruments and its financial liabilities, which consist of short-tern and long-term debt.
Financial Instruments Policy [Text Block]
Financial Instruments


Finite Lived Intangible Assets Accumulated Amortization
Accumulated Amortization


Finite Lived Intangible Assets Amortization Expense After Year Five
Thereafter


Finite Lived Intangible Assets Amortization Expense Next Twelve Months
Year Ending June 30, 2013


Finite Lived Intangible Assets Amortization Expense Year Five
Year Ending June 30, 2017


Finite Lived Intangible Assets Amortization Expense Year Four
Year Ending June 30, 2016


Finite Lived Intangible Assets Amortization Expense Year Three
Year Ending June 30, 2015


Finite Lived Intangible Assets Amortization Expense Year Two
Year Ending June 30, 2014


Finite Lived Intangible Assets By Major Class [Axis]
Finite-Lived Intangible Assets by Major Class [Axis]


Finite Lived Intangible Assets Gross
Gross Carrying Amount


Finite Lived Intangible Assets [Line Items]
Finite-Lived Intangible Assets [Line Items]


Finite Lived Intangible Assets Major Class Name [Domain]
Finite-Lived Intangible Assets, Major Class Name [Domain]


Finite Lived Intangible Assets Net
Intangible assets, net
Net Carrying Amount
Net Carrying Amount


Finite Lived Intangible Asset Useful Life
Estimated useful lives of intangible assets


Foreign Country [Member]
Foreign Country


Foreign Currency Cash Flow Hedge Gain Loss Reclassified To Earnings Net
Gain (loss) reclassified from OCI into revenue


Foreign Currency Cash Flow Hedge Gain Loss To Be Reclassified During Next 12 Months
Estimated derivative net gains (losses) included in OCI that will be reclassified into earnings within 12 months


Foreign Currency Transaction Gain Loss Before Tax
Net gains (losses) on foreign currency remeasurements


Foreign Currency Transactions And Translations Policy [Text Block]
Foreign Currencies


Foreign Exchange Contract [Member]
Foreign Exchange Contracts


Foreign Government Debt Securities [Member]
Foreign government bonds


Forward Contracts [Member]
Forward Contracts


Furniture And Fixtures Gross
Furniture and equipment


Furniture And Fixtures [Member]
Furniture and Fixtures


Gain Loss On Derivative Instruments Net Pretax
Net losses on derivatives


Gain Loss On Fair Value Hedges Recognized In Earnings
Total


Gain Loss On Investments
Net recognized gains on investments
Total


Represents losses (gains) included in earnings for the period as a result of selling or holding securities and derivatives.
Gain Loss On Investments And Derivative Instruments
Net recognized gains on investments and derivatives


General And Administrative Expense
General and administrative


Goodwill
Ending Balance
Beginning Balance
Goodwill


Goodwill Acquired During Period
Acquisitions


Goodwill And Intangible Assets Goodwill Policy
Goodwill


Goodwill Disclosure [Text Block]
Goodwill


Goodwill Impairment Loss
Goodwill impairment
Goodwill impairment charge


Goodwill [Line Items]
Goodwill [Line Items]


Goodwill Other Changes
Other


Gross Fair Value [Member]
Gross Fair Value [Member]
Gross Fair Value


Gross Profit
Gross profit


Group One [Member]
Group One [Member]
The H.264 video standard


Group Two [Member]
Group Two [Member]
Certain syncing functionality in the ActiveSync protocol


The additional term of the guarantee or each group of similar guarantees.
Guarantee Obligations Additional Period
Revenue per search guarantee additional term


Guarantee Obligations By Nature [Axis]
Guarantor Obligations by Nature


Guarantee Obligations [Line Items]
Guarantor Obligations [Line Items]


Guarantee Obligations Nature [Domain]
Guarantor Obligations, Nature [Domain]


The term of the guarantee or each group of similar guarantees.
Guarantee Obligations Period
Revenue per search guarantee term


Hedging Designation [Axis]
Hedging Designation


Hedging Designation [Domain]
Hedging Designation [Domain]


Hedging Relationship [Domain]
Hedging Relationship [Domain]


Income Loss From Continuing Operations Before Income Taxes Domestic
U.S.


Income Loss From Continuing Operations Before Income Taxes Foreign
International


Income Loss From Continuing Operations Before Income Taxes Minority Interest And Income Loss From Equity Method Investments
Income before income taxes


Income Statement [Abstract]
Income Statement [Abstract]


Income Tax Authority [Axis]
Income Tax Authority


Income Tax Authority [Domain]
Income Tax Authority [Domain]


Income Tax Contingency [Line Items]
Income Tax Contingency [Line Items]


Income Tax Contingency [Table]
Income Tax Contingency [Table]


Income Tax Disclosure [Text Block]
Income Taxes


Income Taxes [Line Items]
Income Taxes [Line Items]
Income Taxes [Line Items]


Income Taxes Paid Net
Income taxes paid


Income Taxes [Table]
Income Taxes [Table]
Income Taxes [Table]


Income Tax Examination [Line Items]
Income Tax Examination [Line Items]


Income Tax Examination [Table]
Income Tax Examination [Table]


Income Tax Examination Year Under Examination
Tax years under audit


Income Tax Expense Benefit
Provision for income taxes
Provision for income taxes


Income Tax Policy [Text Block]
Income Taxes


Increase Decrease In Accounts Payable
Accounts payable


Increase Decrease In Accounts Receivable
Accounts receivable


Increase Decrease In Collateral Held Under Securities Lending
Securities lending payable


Increase Decrease In Deferred Revenue
Deferral of unearned revenue


Increase Decrease In Inventories
Inventories


Increase Decrease In Operating Capital [Abstract]
Changes in operating assets and liabilities:


Increase Decrease In Other Current Assets
Other current assets


Increase Decrease In Other Current Liabilities
Other current liabilities


Increase Decrease In Other Noncurrent Assets
Other long-term assets


Increase Decrease In Other Noncurrent Liabilities
Other long-term liabilities


Incremental Common Shares Attributable To Share Based Payment Arrangements
Dilutive effect of stock-based awards


The number of infringement cases pending beyond those specifically disclosed.
Infringement Cases Additional Pending
Other infringement cases pending


Intangible Assets Disclosure [Text Block]
Intangible Assets


Intangible Assets Finite Lived Policy
Intangible Assets


Interest Expense
Interest expense


Interest Paid
Cash paid for interest


Interest Rate Contract [Member]
Interest Rate Contracts


Internal Revenue Service I R S [Member]
Internal Revenue Service (IRS)


International Trade Commission
International Trade Commission [Member]
International Trade Commission


Inventory Disclosure [Text Block]
Inventories


Inventory Finished Goods
Finished goods


Inventory Net
Inventories
Total


Inventory Policy [Text Block]
Inventories


Inventory Raw Materials
Raw materials


Inventory Work In Process
Work in process


Investment Income Categories [Domain]
Investment Income, Categories [Domain]


Investment Income Interest And Dividend
Dividends and interest income


Investments Classified by Contractual Maturity Date [Line Items]
Investments Classified By Contractual Maturity Date [Line Items]
Investments Classified by Contractual Maturity Date [Line Items]


Investments Classified by Contractual Maturity Date [Table]
Investments Classified By Contractual Maturity Date [Table]
Investments Classified by Contractual Maturity Date [Table]


Investments Classified By Contractual Maturity Date Table [Text Block]
Debt Investment Maturities


Investments, Unrealized Loss Position [Line Items]
Investments Unrealized Loss Position [Line Items]
Investments, Unrealized Loss Position [Line Items]


Investments, Unrealized Loss Position [Table]
Investments Unrealized Loss Position [Table]
Investments, Unrealized Loss Position [Table]


Land
Land


The latest practicable date for which the number of shares outstanding of each class of common stock is provided.
Latest Practicable Date
Latest Practicable Date


Lease And Rental Expense
Rental expense for facilities operating leases


Leasehold Improvements Gross
Leasehold improvements


Leasehold Improvements [Member]
Leasehold Improvements


Legal Entity [Axis]
Legal Entity [Axis]


Legal Matters And Contingencies [Text Block]
Contingencies


Liabilities
Total liabilities


Liabilities And Stockholders Equity
Total liabilities and stockholders' equity


Liabilities And Stockholders Equity [Abstract]
Liabilities and stockholders' equity


Liabilities Current
Total current liabilities


Liabilities Current [Abstract]
Current liabilities:


Liabilities Fair Value Disclosure Recurring
Liabilities


Litigation Case [Axis]
Loss Contingencies by Type of Case


Litigation Case Type [Domain]
Litigation Case Type [Domain]


Litigation Reserve Noncurrent
Legal contingencies


Long Term Debt
Long-term debt


Long Term Debt Fair Value
Long-term debt fair value


Long Term Debt Maturities Repayments Of Principal After Year Five
Thereafter


Long Term Debt Maturities Repayments Of Principal In Next Twelve Months
Year Ending June 30, 2013


Long Term Debt Maturities Repayments Of Principal In Year Five
Year Ending June 30, 2017


Long Term Debt Maturities Repayments Of Principal In Year Four
Year Ending June 30, 2016


Long Term Debt Maturities Repayments Of Principal In Year Three
Year Ending June 30, 2015


Long Term Debt Maturities Repayments Of Principal In Year Two
Year Ending June 30, 2014


Long Term Debt [Member]
Notes, Total


Long Term Debt Noncurrent
Long-term debt


Longterm Debt Type [Axis]
Long-term Debt, Type


Longterm Debt Type [Domain]
Long-term Debt, Type [Domain]


Long Term Investments
Equity and Other Investments


Long Term Purchase Commitment By Category Of Item Purchased [Axis]
Category of Item Purchased [Axis]


Long Term Purchase Commitment Category Of Item Purchased [Domain]
Long-term Purchase Commitment, Category of Item Purchased [Domain]


Loss Contingencies by Name of Defendant [Axis]
Loss Contingencies By Name Of Defendant [Axis]
Loss Contingencies by Name of Defendant


Loss Contingencies by Name of Defendant [Domain]
Loss Contingencies By Name Of Defendant [Domain]
Loss Contingencies by Name of Defendant [Domain]


Loss Contingencies by Name of Plaintiff [Axis]
Loss Contingencies By Name Of Plaintiff [Axis]
Loss Contingencies by Name of Plaintiff


Loss Contingencies by Name of Plaintiff [Domain]
Loss Contingencies By Name Of Plaintiff [Domain]
Loss Contingencies by Name of Plaintiff [Domain]


Loss Contingencies By Nature Of Contingency [Axis]
Loss Contingencies by Nature of Contingency


Loss Contingencies [Line Items]
Loss Contingencies [Line Items]


Loss Contingencies [Table]
Loss Contingencies [Table]


Loss Contingency Accrual At Carrying Value
Accrual for loss contingency, ending balance


Loss Contingency Accrual Carrying Value Current
Accrual for disclosed loss contingencies, current, ending balance


Loss Contingency Accrual Carrying Value Noncurrent
Accrual for disclosed loss contingencies, noncurrent, ending balance


The number of claims dismissed.
Loss Contingency Claims Dismissed Number
Number of claims dismissed


Loss Contingency Nature [Domain]
Loss Contingency, Nature [Domain]


Loss Contingency New Claims Filed Number
Number of claims filed


Loss Contingency Pending Claims Number
Number of pending claims


The maximum value of payments associated with the settlement of class action cases.
Loss Contingency Range Of Class Action Settlement Value Maximum
Maximum value of vouchers to be issued


Loss Contingency Range Of Possible Loss Maximum
Total estimated cost of state overcharge class action cases, maximum


Loss Contingency Range Of Possible Loss Minimum
Total estimated cost of state overcharge class action cases, minimum


Loss Contingency Range Of Possible Loss Portion Not Accrued
Amount not accrued for estimated maximum losses for disclosed loss contingencies


Luxembourg [Member]
Luxembourg [Member]
Luxembourg


Major Types Of Debt And Equity Securities [Axis]
Schedule of Available-for-sale Securities, Major Types of Debt and Equity Securities


Major Types Of Debt And Equity Securities [Domain]
Major Types of Debt and Equity Securities [Domain]


Marketable Securities Realized Gain Loss Other Than Temporary Impairments Amount
Other-than-temporary impairments of investments


Marketing Intangibles [Member]
Marketing Intangibles [Member]
Marketing-related


Material Reconciling Items [Member]
Reconciling amounts


Maximum Length Of Time Hedged In Cash Flow Hedge 1
Maximum length of time hedged in cash flow hedge


Maximum [Member]
Upper Limit


Mergers Acquisitions And Dispositions Disclosures [Text Block]
Business Combinations


Microsoft Business Division [Member]
Microsoft Business Division [Member]
Microsoft Business Division


Microsoft Office system [Member]
Microsoft Office System [Member]
Microsoft Office system


Minimum [Member]
Lower Limit


Money Market Funds [Member]
Mutual funds


Mortgage Backed Securities [Member]
Mortgage-backed securities


Motorola, Defendant [Member]
Motorola Defendant [Member]
Motorola, Defendant


Motorola, Plaintiff [Member]
Motorola Plaintiff [Member]
Motorola, Plaintiff


Net Cash Provided By Used In Financing Activities
Net cash used in financing


Net Cash Provided By Used In Financing Activities [Abstract]
Financing


Net Cash Provided By Used In Investing Activities
Net cash used in investing


Net Cash Provided By Used In Investing Activities [Abstract]
Investing


Net Cash Provided By Used In Operating Activities
Net cash from operations


Net Cash Provided By Used In Operating Activities [Abstract]
Operations


Net Income Loss
Net income
Net income
Net income available for common shareholders (A)


New Accounting Pronouncements Policy Policy [Text Block]
Recently adopted accounting guidance


Nondesignated [Member]
Non-designated hedge derivatives


Nonoperating Income Expense
Other income
Total


North America
North America [Member]
U.S. and Canada


Notes 5.3 Percent Due February 8th 2041 [Member]
Notes Five Point Three Percent Due February Eight Twenty Forty One [Member]
Notes 5.3 Percent Due February 8th 2041


Notes 5.2 Percent Due June 1st 2039 [Member]
Notes Five Point Two Percent Due June One Twenty Thirty Nine [Member]
Notes 5.2 Percent Due June 1st 2039


Notes 4.5 Percent Due October 1st 2040 [Member]
Notes Four Point Five Percent Due October One Twenty Forty [Member]
Notes 4.5 Percent Due October 1st 2040


Notes 4.2 Percent Due June 1st 2019 [Member]
Notes Four Point Two Percent Due June One Twenty Nineteen [Member]
Notes 4.2 Percent Due June 1st 2019


Notes 4.0 Percent Due February 8th 2021 [Member]
Notes Four Point Zero Percent Due February Eight Twenty Twenty One [Member]
Notes 4.0 Percent Due February 8th 2021


Notes 1.625 Percent Due September 25th 2015 [Member]
Notes One Point Six Two Five Percent Due September Twenty Five Twenty Fifteen [Member]
Notes 1.625 Percent Due September 25th 2015


Notes 3.0 Percent Due October 1st 2020 [Member]
Notes Three Point Zero Percent Due October One Twenty Twenty [Member]
Notes 3.0 Percent Due October 1st 2020


Notes 2.5 Percent Due February 8th 2016 [Member]
Notes Two Point Five Percent Due February Eight Twenty Sixteen [Member]
Notes 2.5 Percent Due February 8th 2016


Notes 2.95 Percent Due June 1st 2014 [Member]
Notes Two Point Nine Five Percent Due June One Twenty Fourteen [Member]
Notes 2.95 Percent Due June 1st 2014


Notes 0.875 Percent Due September 27th 2013 [Member]
Notes Zero Point Eight Seven Five Percent Due September Twenty Seven Twenty Thirteen [Member]
Notes 0.875 Percent Due September 27th 2013


Notional Amount Of Credit Risk Derivatives
Notional amounts of credit contracts


Notional Amount Of Foreign Currency Cash Flow Hedge Derivatives
Notional amounts of foreign exchange contracts designated as cash flow hedges


Notional Amount Of Foreign Currency Derivative Instruments Not Designated As Hedging Instruments
Notional amounts of foreign exchange contracts not designated as hedges


Notional Amount Of Foreign Currency Fair Value Hedge Derivatives
Notional amounts of foreign exchange contracts designated as fair value hedges


Notional Amount Of Interest Rate Derivative Instruments Not Designated As Hedging Instruments
Notional amounts of fixed-interest rate contracts not designated as hedges


Notional Amount Of Other Derivatives Not Designated As Hedging Instruments
Notional amounts of mortgage contracts purchased


Notional Amount Of Price Risk Derivatives
Notional amounts of commodity contracts not designated as hedges


Novell [Member]
Novell [Member]
Novell


The number of legal actions heard during the period.
Number Of Actions Heard
Number of actions heard


Number Of Businesses Acquired
Number of entities acquired


Number of patents allegedly infringed
Number Of Patents Allegedly Infringed On
Number of patents allegedly infringed


The number of patents for which a favorable verdict was returned.
Number Of Patents Favorable Verdict
Favorable verdict - number of patents


Number of Patents, Unfavorable Verdict
Number Of Patents Unfavorable Verdict
Unfavorable verdict - number of patents


Number Of Reportable Segments
Number of reportable segments


Online Services Division [Member]
Online Services Division [Member]
Online Services Division


Open Tax Year
Tax years subject to examination


Operating Income Loss
Operating income (loss)
Operating income


The percentage of operating income available as a pool to be granted to employees through the Executive Officer Incentive Plan.
Operating Income Percent Available For Award
Percentage of operating income for Executive Officer Incentive Plan


Operating Leased Assets [Line Items]
Operating Leased Assets [Line Items]


Operating Leases Future Minimum Payments Due
Total


Operating Leases Future Minimum Payments Due Current
Year Ending June 30, 2013


Operating Leases Future Minimum Payments Due In Five Years
Year Ending June 30, 2017


Operating Leases Future Minimum Payments Due In Four Years
Year Ending June 30, 2016


Operating Leases Future Minimum Payments Due In Three Years
Year Ending June 30, 2015


Operating Leases Future Minimum Payments Due In Two Years
Year Ending June 30, 2014


Operating Leases Future Minimum Payments Due Thereafter
Thereafter


Operating Leases Of Lessee Disclosure [Text Block]
Future Minimum Rental Commitments Under Noncancellable Operating Leases


Operating Loss Carryforwards
Operating loss carryforwards


Option Indexed To Issuers Equity Equity [Axis]
Option Indexed to Issuer's Equity, Equity


Option Indexed To Issuers Equity Strike Price
Capped call options, cap price


Option Indexed To Issuers Equity Type [Domain]
Option Indexed to Issuer's Equity, Type [Domain]


Option [Member]
Options


Options Business Combinations [Member]
Options Business Combinations [Member]
Options Business Combinations


Other Accrued Liabilities Noncurrent
Other


Other Acquired Entities [Member]
Other Acquired Entities [Member]
Other Acquired Entities


Other Assets Current
Other


Other Assets Fair Value Disclosure
Other


Other Assets Noncurrent
Other long-term assets


Other Comprehensive Income Available For Sale Securities Adjustment Net Of Tax Period Increase Decrease [Abstract]
Net Unrealized Gains (Losses) on Investments


Other Comprehensive Income Derivatives Qualifying As Hedges Net Of Tax Period Increase Decrease [Abstract]
Net Unrealized Gains (Losses) on Derivatives


Other Comprehensive Income Loss Available For Sale Securities Adjustment Net Of Tax
Net unrealized gains (losses) on investments


Other Comprehensive Income Loss Derivatives Qualifying As Hedges Net Of Tax
Net unrealized gains (losses) on derivatives
Net unrealized gains (losses) on derivatives


Other Comprehensive Income Loss Foreign Currency Transaction And Translation Adjustment Net Of Tax
Translation adjustments and other
Translation adjustments and other, net of tax effects of $(165), $205 and $(103)


Other Comprehensive Income Loss Foreign Currency Translation Adjustment Tax
Translation adjustments and other, tax effects


Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) [Line Items]
Other Comprehensive Income Loss [Line Items]
Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) [Line Items]


Other Comprehensive Income Loss Net Of Tax
Other comprehensive income (loss)


Other Comprehensive Income Loss Net Of Tax Period Increase Decrease [Abstract]
Other comprehensive income:


Other Comprehensive Income Loss Reclassification Adjustment For Sale Of Securities Included In Net Income Net Of Tax
Reclassification adjustment for gains included in net income, net of tax effects of $(117), $(159), and $(120)


Other Comprehensive Income Loss Reclassification Adjustment For Sale Of Securities Included In Net Income Tax
Reclassification adjustment for gains included in net income, tax effects


Other Comprehensive Income Loss Reclassification Adjustment On Derivatives Included In Net Income Net Of Tax
Reclassification adjustment for losses (gains) included in net income, net of tax effects of $10, $2, and $(173)


Other Comprehensive Income Loss Reclassification Adjustment On Derivatives Included In Net Income Tax
Reclassification adjustment for losses (gains) included in net income, tax effects


Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) [Table]
Other Comprehensive Income Loss [Table]
Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) [Table]


Other Comprehensive Income Unrealized Gain Loss On Derivatives Arising During Period Net Of Tax
Unrealized gains (losses), net of tax effects of $127, $(340), and $188


Other Comprehensive Income Unrealized Gain Loss On Derivatives Arising During Period Tax
Unrealized gains (losses), tax effects


Other Comprehensive Income Unrealized Holding Gain Loss On Securities Arising During Period Net Of Tax
Net unrealized gains (losses) on investments
Unrealized gains (losses), net of tax effects of $(93), $726, and $263


Other Comprehensive Income Unrealized Holding Gain Loss On Securities Arising During Period Tax
Unrealized gains (losses), tax effects


Other Countries [Member]
Other Countries [Member]
Other Countries


Other Current Assets [Member]
Other current assets


Other Current Liabilities [Member]
Other Current Liabilities [Member]
Other current liabilities


Other Debt Securities [Member]
Other investments


The minimum liquidity for the period as required by certain of our counterparty agreements for derivative instruments.
Other Financial Instrument Covenant Minimum Liquidity
Minimum liquidity for the period as defined by certain counterparty agreements


The minimum liquidity required by certain of our counterparty agreements for derivative instruments.
Other Financial Instrument Covenant Minimum Liquidity Requirement
Minimum required liquidity under certain counterparty agreements


Other Income And Other Expense Disclosure [Text Block]
Other Income (Expense)


Other Liabilities Current
Other


Other Liabilities Disclosure [Text Block]
Other Long-Term Liabilities


Other Liabilities [Line Items]
Other Liabilities [Line Items]
Other Liabilities [Line Items]


Other Liabilities Noncurrent
Other long-term liabilities
Total


Other Liabilities [Table]
Other Liabilities [Table]
Other Liabilities [Table]


Table of other long-term liabilities.
Other Noncurrent Liabilities Table [Text Block]
Other Long-Term Liabilities


Other Nonoperating Income Expense
Other


Other products and services [Member]
Other Products And Services [Member]
Other products and services


Patent And Intellectual Property Claims [Member]
Patent And Intellectual Property Claims [Member]
Patent And Intellectual Property Claims


Patent Infringements
Patent Infringements [Member]
Patent Infringements


Patents [Member]
Patents


Payments For Legal Settlements
Settlement payments


Payments For Repurchase Of Common Stock
Common stock repurchased


Payments Of Dividends Common Stock
Common stock cash dividends paid


Payments To Acquire Investments
Purchases of investments


Payments To Acquire Property Plant And Equipment
Additions to property and equipment


The percentage of the award by type of award
Percentage Of Award By Type Of Award
Percentage of operating income for Executive Officer Incentive Plan


Percentage of worldwide annual revenue a company may be fined if found to have breached a legally binding commitment.
Percentage Of Net Revenue
Percentage of worldwide annual revenue a company may be fined if found to have breached a legally binding commitment


Performance Shares [Member]
Performance Shares


Period 1 [Member]
Period One [Member]
Immediately After The Award Is Approved Following Fiscal Year-End


Period 2 [Member]
Period Two [Member]
August 31 Of Each Of The Following Three Years


Plan Name [Axis]
Plan Name [Axis]


Plan Name [Domain]
Plan Name [Domain]


Proceeds From Convertible Debt
Proceeds from convertible debt offering


Proceeds From Debt Maturing In More Than Three Months
Proceeds from issuance of debt, maturities longer than 90 days


Proceeds From Divestiture Of Businesses
Business dispositions, total consideration


Proceeds From Issuance Of Common Stock
Common stock issued


Proceeds From Maturities Prepayments And Calls Of Available For Sale Securities
Maturities of investments


Proceeds From Payments For Other Financing Activities
Other


Proceeds From Repayments Of Short Term Debt Maturing In Three Months Or Less
Short-term debt repayments, maturities of 90 days or less, net


Proceeds From Sale Of Available For Sale Securities
Sales of investments


Product Or Service [Axis]
Products and Services


Products And Services [Domain]
Products and Services [Domain]


Property Plant And Equipment By Type [Axis]
Property, Plant and Equipment, Type [Axis]


Property Plant And Equipment Disclosure [Text Block]
Property And Equipment


Property Plant And Equipment Gross
Total, at cost


Property Plant And Equipment [Line Items]
Property, Plant and Equipment [Line Items]


Property Plant And Equipment Net
Property and equipment, net of accumulated depreciation of $10,962 and $9,829
Total, net


Property Plant And Equipment Policy [Text Block]
Property and Equipment


Property Plant And Equipment Type [Domain]
Property, Plant and Equipment, Type [Domain]


Property Plant And Equipment Useful Life
Estimated useful lives


Purchased Call Option [Member]
Purchased Call Option


Quarterly Financial Information [Line Items]
Quarterly Financial Information [Line Items]
Quarterly Financial Information [Line Items]


Quarterly Financial Information [Table]
Quarterly Financial Information [Table]
Quarterly Financial Information [Table]


Quarterly Financial Information [Text Block]
Quarterly Information (Unaudited)


Range [Axis]
Range


Range [Member]
Range [Domain]


Real Estate [Member]
Real Estate


Realized Gain Loss On Investments Table [Text Block]
Net Recognized Gains (Losses) on Investments


Recognition Of Deferred Revenue
Recognition of unearned revenue


Reconciliation Of Operating Profit Loss From Segments To Consolidated [Table]
Reconciliation of Operating Profit (Loss) from Segments to Consolidated [Table]


Reconciliation Of Operating Profit Loss From Segments To Consolidated [Text Block]
Significant Reconciling Items


Reconciliation of Provision of Income Taxes [Line Items]
Reconciliation Of Provision Of Income Taxes [Line Items]
Reconciliation of Provision of Income Taxes [Line Items]


Reconciliation of Provision of Income Taxes [Table]
Reconciliation Of Provision Of Income Taxes [Table]
Reconciliation of Provision of Income Taxes [Table]


Reconciliation Of Revenue From Segments To Consolidated [Table]
Reconciliation of Revenue from Segments to Consolidated [Table]


Reconciliation of Statutory Federal Tax Rate [Line Items]
Reconciliation Of Statutory Federal Tax Rate [Line Items]
Reconciliation of Statutory Federal Tax Rate [Line Items]


Reconciliation of Statutory Federal Tax Rate [Table]
Reconciliation Of Statutory Federal Tax Rate [Table]
Reconciliation of Statutory Federal Tax Rate [Table]


Reconciliation of the net fair value of assets measured at fair value on a recurring basis to their balance sheet presentation.
Reconciliation Of Total Assets Measured At Fair Value On Recurring Basis To Balance Sheet Presentation [Text Block]
Reconciliation of Total Assets Measured at Fair Value on Recurring Basis to Balance Sheet Presentation


Repayments Of Debt Maturing In More Than Three Months
Repayments of debt, maturities longer than 90 days


Research And Development Expense
Research and development


Research Development And Computer Software Policy [Text Block]
Research and Development


Retained Earnings (Accumulated Deficit) and Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss), Net of Tax
Retained Earnings Accumulated Deficit And Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income Loss Net Of Tax
Retained earnings (deficit), including accumulated other comprehensive income of $1,422 and $1,863


Retained Earnings Accumulated Deficit and Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss), Net of Tax [Member]
Retained Earnings Accumulated Deficit And Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income Loss Net Of Tax [Member]
Retained earnings (deficit)


Revenue Per Search Guarantee [Member]
Revenue Per Search Guarantee [Member]
Revenue Per Search Guarantee


Revenue Recognition Policy [Text Block]
Revenue Recognition


Sales Revenue Net
Revenue
Total


Sales Revenue Segment [Member]
Revenue reconciling amounts


Schedule Of Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income Loss Table [Text Block]
Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income


Schedule Of Acquired Finite Lived Intangible Asset By Major Class [Table]
Schedule of Acquired Finite-Lived Intangible Asset by Major Class [Table]


Schedule Of Acquired Finite Lived Intangible Assets By Major Class [Text Block]
Intangible Assets Acquired


Schedule of Acquired Intangible Assets by Major Class [Table Text Block]
Schedule Of Acquired Intangible Assets By Major Class [Text Block]
Acquired Intangible Assets


Schedule Of Antidilutive Securities Excluded From Computation Of Earnings Per Share [Table]
Schedule of Antidilutive Securities Excluded from Computation of Earnings Per Share [Table]


Schedule Of Antidilutive Securities Excluded From Computation Of Earnings Per Share [Text Block]
Shares Excluded From Calculation of EPS


Schedule Of Business Acquisitions By Acquisition [Table]
Schedule of Business Acquisitions, by Acquisition [Table]


Schedule Of Calculation Of Numerator And Denominator In Earnings Per Share Table [Text Block]
Basic and Diluted Earnings Per Share


Schedule Of Capital Units [Table]
Schedule of Capital Units [Table]


The schedule of cash, cash equivalents, and debt and equity securities, including any unrealized or realized gain (loss).
Schedule Of Cash Cash Equivalents And Investments Table [Text Block]
Investment Components, Including Associated Derivatives


Schedule Of Common Stock Outstanding Roll Forward Table [Text Block]
Shares of Common Stock Outstanding


Schedule Of Compensation Cost For Share Based Payment Arrangements Allocation Of Share Based Compensation Costs By Plan Table [Text Block]
Stock-Based Compensation Expense and Related Income Tax Benefits


Schedule of Components of Income Before Income Tax Expense (Benefit) [Line Items]
Schedule Of Components Of Income Before Income Tax Expense Benefit [Line Items]
Schedule of Components of Income Before Income Tax Expense (Benefit) [Line Items]


Schedule of Components of Income Before Income Tax Expense (Benefit) [Table]
Schedule Of Components Of Income Before Income Tax Expense Benefit [Table]
Schedule of Components of Income Before Income Tax Expense (Benefit) [Table]


Schedule Of Components Of Income Tax Expense Benefit Table [Text Block]
Provision for Income Taxes


Schedule Of Comprehensive Income Loss Table [Text Block]
Other Comprehensive Income and Related Income Tax Effects


Schedule Of Cost Method Investments [Line Items]
Schedule of Cost-method Investments [Line Items]


Schedule Of Cost Method Investments [Table]
Schedule of Cost-method Investments [Table]


Schedule Of Debt Instruments [Text Block]
Long-term Debt


Schedule of Deferred Income Tax Assets and Liabilities [Line Items]
Schedule Of Deferred Income Tax Assets And Liabilities [Line Items]
Schedule of Deferred Income Tax Assets and Liabilities [Line Items]


Schedule of Deferred Income Tax Assets and Liabilities [Table]
Schedule Of Deferred Income Tax Assets And Liabilities [Table]
Schedule of Deferred Income Tax Assets and Liabilities [Table]


Schedule Of Deferred Tax Assets And Liabilities Table [Text Block]
Deferred Income Tax Assets and Liabilities


Schedule Of Derivative Instruments Gain Loss In Statement Of Financial Performance [Text Block]
Gains (Losses) on Derivative Instruments


Schedule Of Derivative Instruments In Statement Of Financial Position Fair Value [Text Block]
Fair Values of Derivative Instruments


Schedule of Earnings Per Share, Basic and Diluted, by Common Class [Line Items]
Schedule Of Earnings Per Share Basic And Diluted By Common Class [Line Items]
Schedule of Earnings Per Share, Basic and Diluted, by Common Class [Line Items]


Schedule of Earnings Per Share, Basic and Diluted, by Common Class [Table]
Schedule Of Earnings Per Share Basic And Diluted By Common Class [Table]
Schedule of Earnings Per Share, Basic and Diluted, by Common Class [Table]


Schedule Of Effective Income Tax Rate Reconciliation Table [Text Block]
Difference Between Income Taxes Computed at Federal Statutory Rate and Provision for Income Taxes


Schedule Of Employee Service Share Based Compensation Allocation Of Recognized Period Costs [Table]
Schedule of Employee Service Share-based Compensation, Allocation of Recognized Period Costs [Table]


Schedule Of Entity Wide Disclosure On Geographic Areas Long Lived Assets In Individual Foreign Countries By Country [Text Block]
Long-Lived Assets, Excluding Financial Instruments and Tax Assets, Classified by Location of Controlling Statutory Company


Schedule Of Entity Wide Information Revenue From External Customers By Products And Services [Table]
Revenue from External Customers by Products and Services [Table]


Schedule Of Entity Wide Information Revenue From External Customers By Products And Services [Text Block]
Revenue Classified By Significant Product And Service Offerings


Schedule Of Expected Amortization Expense Table [Text Block]
Estimated Future Amortization Expense Related to Intangible Assets


Schedule Of Fair Value Assets And Liabilities Measured On Recurring Basis Table [Text Block]
Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on Recurring Basis


The vest-date fair values of stock plan awards vested during the period.
Schedule Of Fair Value Stock Awards Vested Table [Text Block]
Share Based Compensation Plans Total Activity


Schedule Of Finite Lived Intangible Assets [Table]
Schedule of Finite-Lived Intangible Assets [Table]


Schedule Of Finite Lived Intangible Assets Table [Text Block]
Finite-Lived Intangible Assets


Schedule Of Gain Loss On Investments Including Marketable Securities And Investments Held At Cost Income Statement Reported Amounts Summary [Line Items]
Gain (Loss) on Investments [Line Items]


Schedule Of Gain Loss On Investments [Table]
Schedule of Gain (Loss) on Investments [Table]


Schedule Of Goodwill [Table]
Schedule of Goodwill [Table]


Schedule Of Goodwill [Text Block]
Carrying Amount of Goodwill


Schedule Of Guarantee Obligations [Table]
Schedule of Guarantor Obligations [Table]


Schedule Of Income Before Income Tax Domestic And Foreign Table [Text Block]
Income Before Income Taxes


Schedule Of Inventory Current Table [Text Block]
Components of Inventories


Schedule of Inventory [Line Items]
Schedule Of Inventory [Line Items]
Schedule of Inventory [Line Items]


Schedule of Inventory [Table]
Schedule Of Inventory [Table]
Schedule of Inventory [Table]


Schedule Of Investment Income Reported Amounts By Category [Axis]
Schedule of Investment Income, Reported Amounts, by Category


Schedule Of Maturities Of Long Term Debt Table [Text Block]
Maturities of Long-term Debt


Schedule of Non Cancelable Operating Leases [Axis]
Schedule Of Non Cancelable Operating Leases [Axis]
Schedule of Non Cancelable Operating Leases [Axis]


Schedule of Operating Leases [Table]
Schedule Of Operating Leases [Table]
Schedule of Operating Leases [Table]


Schedule Of Other Nonoperating Income Expense Table [Text Block]
Components of Other Income (Expense)


Schedule Of Property Plant And Equipment [Table]
Schedule of Property, Plant and Equipment [Table]


Schedule of Property, Plant and Equipment [Table Text Block]
Schedule Of Property Plant And Equipment Table [Text Block]
Components of Property and Equipment


Schedule Of Quarterly Financial Information Table [Text Block]
Quarterly Information (Unaudited)


Schedule Of Revenue From External Customers Attributed To Foreign Countries By Geographic Area [Text Block]
Revenue Classified by Major Geographic Areas


Schedule Of Segment Reporting Information By Segment [Table]
Schedule of Segment Reporting Information, by Segment [Table]


Schedule Of Segment Reporting Information By Segment [Text Block]
Segment Revenue and Operating Income (Loss)


Schedule of Share based Compensation Arrangements by Share based Payment Award, Performance Options [Line Items]
Schedule Of Share Based Compensation Arrangements By Share Based Payment Award Performance Options [Line Items]
Schedule of Share based Compensation Arrangements by Share based Payment Award, Performance Options [Line Items]


Schedule of Share based Compensation Arrangements by Share based Payment Award, Performance Options [Table]
Schedule Of Share Based Compensation Arrangements By Share Based Payment Award Performance Options [Table]
Schedule of Share based Compensation Arrangements by Share based Payment Award, Performance Options [Table]


Schedule Of Share Based Compensation Arrangements By Share Based Payment Award [Table]
Schedule of Share-based Compensation Arrangements by Share-based Payment Award [Table]


Schedule Of Share Based Compensation Employee Stock Purchase Plan Activity Table [Text Block]
Employee Purchased Shares


Schedule Of Share Based Compensation Stock Options Activity Table [Text Block]
Employee Stock Options Outstanding


Schedule of Stock Option Exercise Activity [Table Text Block]
Schedule Of Stock Option Exercise Activity Table [Text Block]
Stock Option Exercise Activity


Schedule Of Unrealized Loss On Investments Table [Text Block]
Unrealized Loss Position Investments


Securities Loaned
Short-term investments, securities loaned


Segment [Domain]
Segment [Domain]


Segment Geographical [Domain]
Segment, Geographical [Domain]


Segment Reporting Disclosure [Text Block]
Segment Information and Geographic Data


Segment Reporting Information [Line Items]
Segment Reporting Information [Line Items]


Segment Reporting Reconciling Item [Axis]
Segment Reporting Reconciling Item [Axis]
Segment Reporting Reconciling Item


Segment Reporting Reconciling Item [Domain]
Segment Reporting Reconciling Item [Domain]
Segment Reporting Reconciling Item [Domain]


Segment Reporting Reconciling Item For Operating Profit Loss From Segment To Consolidated [Line Items]
Segment Reporting, Reconciling Item for Operating Profit (Loss) from Segment to Consolidated [Line Items]


Segment Reporting Revenue Reconciling Item [Line Items]
Segment Reporting, Revenue Reconciling Item [Line Items]


Selling And Marketing Expense
Sales and marketing


Describes the entity's policies for sales and marketing expenses, which include payroll and related costs for sales and marketing personnel and costs of advertising (such as promotions, tradeshows and seminars).
Selling And Marketing Policy [Text Block]
Sales and Marketing


Semi Annual Payment, First Payment [Member]
Semi Annual Payment First Payment [Member]
Semi Annual Payment, First Payment


Semi Annual Payment, Second Payment [Member]
Semi Annual Payment Second Payment [Member]
Semi Annual Payment, Second Payment


Server and Tools [Member]
Server And Tools [Member]
Server and Tools


Server products and tools [Member]
Server Products And Tools [Member]
Server products and tools


The maximum number of shares originally approved, net of any subsequent amendments and adjustments, for employee purchases under the employee stock purchase plan.
Share Based Compensation Arrangement By Employee Stock Purchase Plan Number Of Shares Authorized
Shares reserved for future issuance through the employee stock purchase plan


Share Based Compensation Arrangement By Share Based Payment Award Award Requisite Service Period 1
Share-based compensation cost recognition/vesting/service period


Share Based Compensation Arrangement By Share Based Payment Award Award Vesting Period 1
Award vest period


Share Based Compensation Arrangement By Share Based Payment Award Award Vesting Rights
Vesting period


Share Based Compensation Arrangement By Share Based Payment Award Equity Instruments Other Than Options Forfeited In Period
Forfeited


Share Based Compensation Arrangement By Share Based Payment Award Equity Instruments Other Than Options Forfeitures Weighted Average Grant Date Fair Value
Forfeited


Share Based Compensation Arrangement By Share Based Payment Award Equity Instruments Other Than Options Grants In Period
Granted


Share Based Compensation Arrangement By Share Based Payment Award Equity Instruments Other Than Options Grants In Period Weighted Average Grant Date Fair Value
Granted


Share Based Compensation Arrangement By Share Based Payment Award Equity Instruments Other Than Options Nonvested Number
Nonvested balance, end of year
Nonvested balance, beginning of year


Share Based Compensation Arrangement By Share Based Payment Award Equity Instruments Other Than Options Nonvested [Roll Forward]
Shares


Share Based Compensation Arrangement By Share Based Payment Award Equity Instruments Other Than Options Nonvested Weighted Average Grant Date Fair Value
Nonvested balance, end of year
Nonvested balance, beginning of year


Share Based Compensation Arrangement By Share Based Payment Award Equity Instruments Other Than Options Vested In Period
Vested


Share Based Compensation Arrangement By Share Based Payment Award Equity Instruments Other Than Options Vested In Period Total Fair Value
Total vest-date fair value of awards vested


Share Based Compensation Arrangement By Share Based Payment Award Equity Instruments Other Than Options Vested In Period Weighted Average Grant Date Fair Value
Vested


Share based Compensation Arrangement by Share based Payment Award, Equity Instruments Other than Options, Weighted Average Grant Date Fair Value [Abstract]
Share Based Compensation Arrangement By Share Based Payment Award Equity Instruments Other Than Options Weighted Average Grant Date Fair Value [Abstract]
Weighted Average Grant-Date Fair Value


Share Based Compensation Arrangement By Share Based Payment Award Fair Value Assumptions Exercise Price
Options granted exercise price


Share Based Compensation Arrangement By Share Based Payment Award, Fair Value Assumptions, Expected Dividends Per Share
Share Based Compensation Arrangement By Share Based Payment Award Fair Value Assumptions Expected Dividends Per Share
Dividends per share (quarterly amounts)


Share based Compensation Arrangement by Share based Payment Award, Fair Value Assumptions, Method Used [Line Items]
Share Based Compensation Arrangement By Share Based Payment Award Fair Value Assumptions Method Used [Line Items]
Share based Compensation Arrangement by Share based Payment Award, Fair Value Assumptions, Method Used [Line Items]


Share based Compensation Arrangement by Share based Payment Award, Fair Value Assumptions, Method Used [Table]
Share Based Compensation Arrangement By Share Based Payment Award Fair Value Assumptions Method Used [Table]
Share based Compensation Arrangement by Share based Payment Award, Fair Value Assumptions, Method Used [Table]


For each plan, identification of the award pricing model or other valuation method used in calculating the weighted average fair values disclosed. The model is also used to calculate the compensation expense that is shown within the balance sheet, income statement, and cash flow. Examples of valuation techniques are lattice models (binomial model), closed-form models (Black-Scholes-Merton formula), and a Monte Carlo simulation technique. Fair value is the amount at which an asset (or liability) could be bought (or incurred) or sold (or settled) in a current transaction between willing parties, that is, other than in a forced or liquidation sale. May include disclosures about the assumptions underlying application of the method selected.
Share Based Compensation Arrangement By Share Based Payment Award Fair Value Assumptions Method Used Table [Text Block]
Assumptions Used in Estimating the Fair Value of Award Grants


Share Based Compensation Arrangement By Share Based Payment Award Fair Value Assumptions Risk Free Interest Rate Maximum
Interest rates range maximum


Share Based Compensation Arrangement By Share Based Payment Award Fair Value Assumptions Risk Free Interest Rate Minimum
Interest rates range minimum


Share Based Compensation Arrangement By Share Based Payment Award [Line Items]
Share-based Compensation Arrangement by Share-based Payment Award [Line Items]


Share Based Compensation Arrangement By Share Based Payment Award Maximum Employee Subscription Rate
Maximum percentage of gross compensation at which employees may purchase shares


Share Based Compensation Arrangement By Share Based Payment Award Number Of Shares Authorized
Shares authorized for future grant


Share-based Compensation Arrangement by Share-based Payment Award, Options, Aggregate Intrinsic Value [Abstract]
Share Based Compensation Arrangement By Share Based Payment Award Options Aggregate Intrinsic Value [Abstract]
Aggregate Intrinsic Value


Sharebased Compensation Arrangement By Sharebased Payment Award Options Exercisable Intrinsic Value 1
Exercisable, end of year


Share Based Compensation Arrangement By Share Based Payment Award Options Exercisable Number
Exercisable, end of year


Share Based Compensation Arrangement By Share Based Payment Award Options Exercisable Weighted Average Exercise Price
Exercisable, end of year


Sharebased Compensation Arrangement By Sharebased Payment Award Options Exercisable Weighted Average Remaining Contractual Term 1
Exercisable, end of year


Share Based Compensation Arrangement By Share Based Payment Award Options Exercises In Period Total Intrinsic Value
Total intrinsic value of stock options exercised


Share Based Compensation Arrangement By Share Based Payment Award Options Expirations In Period
Canceled


Share Based Compensation Arrangement By Share Based Payment Award Options Grants In Period
Granted
Options granted


Share Based Compensation Arrangement By Share Based Payment Award Options Outstanding Intrinsic Value
Balance, end of year


Share Based Compensation Arrangement By Share Based Payment Award Options Outstanding Number
Balance, end of year
Balance, beginning of year
Options outstanding


Share Based Compensation Arrangement By Share Based Payment Award Options Outstanding [Roll Forward]
Shares


Share Based Compensation Arrangement By Share Based Payment Award Options Outstanding Weighted Average Exercise Price
Balance, end of year
Balance, beginning of year


Sharebased Compensation Arrangement By Sharebased Payment Award Options Outstanding Weighted Average Remaining Contractual Term 2
Balance, end of year


Share-based Compensation Arrangement by Share-based Payment Award, Options, Weighted Average Exercise Price [Abstract]
Share Based Compensation Arrangement By Share Based Payment Award Options Weighted Average Exercise Price [Abstract]
Weighted Average Exercise Price


Share-based Compensation Arrangement by Share-based Payment Award, Options, Weighted Average Remaining Contractual Term [Abstract]
Share Based Compensation Arrangement By Share Based Payment Award Options Weighted Average Remaining Contractual Term [Abstract]
Weighted Average Remaining Contractual Term (Years)


Sharebased Compensation Arrangement By Sharebased Payment Award Purchase Price Of Common Stock Percent
Percentage of market value at which employees are able to purchase shares of common stock


The percentage of the target award pool that is granted based on performance.
Share Based Compensation Arrangement By Share Based Payment Award Target Award
Percentage of the target award pool that is granted based on performance


The percentage of the award vesting in the period.
Share Based Compensation Arrangement By Share Based Payment Award Vesting Percentage
Vesting percentage


Share Based Compensation Arrangements By Share Based Payment Award Award Type And Plan Name [Domain]
Award Type [Domain]


Share Based Compensation Arrangements By Share Based Payment Award Options Exercises In Period Weighted Average Exercise Price
Exercised


Share Based Compensation Arrangements By Share Based Payment Award Options Expirations In Period Weighted Average Exercise Price
Canceled


Share Based Compensation Arrangements By Share Based Payment Award Options Grants In Period Weighted Average Exercise Price
Granted
Options granted weighted average price exercise price


Share Based Compensation Option And Incentive Plans Policy
Stock-Based Compensation


Tabular disclosure of the company's share repurchase activity.
Share Repurchase Program Disclosure Table [Text Block]
Share Repurchases


Share Repurchases [Line Items]
Share Repurchases [Line Items]
Share Repurchases [Line Items]


Share Repurchases [Table]
Share Repurchases [Table]
Share Repurchases [Table]


Short Term Investments [Member]
Short-term investments


Significant Accounting Policies [Line Items]
Significant Accounting Policies [Line Items]
Significant Accounting Policies [Line Items]


Significant Accounting Policies [Table]
Significant Accounting Policies [Table]
Significant Accounting Policies [Table]


Significant Accounting Policies [Text Block]
Accounting Policies


Skype [Member]
Skype [Member]
Skype Global S.a r.l.


Software And Software Development Costs [Member]
Software and Software Development Costs


Software [Member]
Software


Standard Product Warranty Policy
Product Warranty


Statement Business Segments [Axis]
Statement, Business Segments


Statement Equity Components [Axis]
Equity Components [Axis]


Statement Geographical [Axis]
Statement, Geographical


Statement [Line Items]
Statement [Line Items]


Statement Of Cash Flows [Abstract]
Statement of Cash Flows [Abstract]


Statement Of Financial Position [Abstract]
Statement of Financial Position [Abstract]


Statement Of Stockholders Equity [Abstract]
Statement of Stockholders' Equity [Abstract]


Statement [Table]
Statement [Table]


Stockholders Equity
Balance, end of period
Balance, beginning of period
Total stockholders' equity


Stockholders Equity [Abstract]
Stockholders' equity:


Stockholders Equity Note Disclosure [Text Block]
Stockholders' Equity


Stockholders Equity Other
Other, net


Stock Issued During Period Shares Employee Stock Purchase Plans
Shares purchased


Stock Issued During Period Shares New Issues
Issued


Stock Issued During Period Shares Stock Options Exercised
Exercised


Stock Issued During Period Value New Issues
Common stock issued


The average price per share of stock purchased by employees under the Employee Stock Purchase Plan during the period.
Stock Issued Employee Stock Purchase Plan Average Price Per Share
Average price per share


Stock Repurchased During Period Shares
Shares
Repurchased


Stock Repurchased During Period Value
Amount
Common stock repurchased


Stock Repurchase Program Authorized Amount
Amount available for repurchase under the current share repurchase program approved by the company's Board of Directors


The expiration date of a stock repurchase plan authorized by an entity's Board of Directors.
Stock Repurchase Program Expiration Date
Expiration date of the share repurchase program


Stock Repurchase Program Remaining Authorized Repurchase Amount
Unused amount of share repurchase program


Subsequent Event Description
Subsequent event


Subsequent Event [Line Items]
Subsequent Event [Line Items]


Subsequent Event [Member]
Subsequent Event


Subsequent Events [Text Block]
Subsequent Event


Subsequent Event [Table]
Subsequent Event [Table]


Subsequent Event Type [Axis]
Subsequent Event Type [Axis]


Subsequent Event Type [Domain]
Subsequent Event Type [Domain]


Summary Of Income Tax Contingencies [Text Block]
Changes in Unrecognized Tax Benefits


Tax Adjustments Settlements And Unusual Provisions
Reduction of income tax expense due to settlement of prior year audit
Partial settlement of an I.R.S. audit of tax years 2004 to 2006, increased net income


The value associated with developed technology that has been acquired from third parties and capitalized internal research and development for technology for external use.
Technology Based Intangible Assets [Member]
Technology-based


Text Block [Abstract]
Text Block [Abstract]


Trade And Other Accounts Receivable Policy
Allowance for Doubtful Accounts


Trade Names [Member]
Trade Names


Trading Symbol
Trading Symbol


Type Of Arrangement [Axis]
Type of Arrangement and Non-arrangement Transactions [Axis]


Type of Non Cancelable Operating Leases [Domain]
Type Of Non Cancelable Operating Leases [Domain]
Type of Non Cancelable Operating Leases [Domain]


Unallocated Amount To Segment [Member]
Corporate-level activity


Unallocated and Other Reportable Segment [Member]
Unallocated And Other Reportable Segment [Member]
Unallocated and other


Undistributed Earnings Of Foreign Subsidiaries
Temporary differences resulting from earnings for certain non-U.S. subsidiaries which are permanently reinvested outside the United States


US State District Court [Member]
United States State District Court [Member]
US State District Court


The amount of gains (losses) net of tax, on foreign currency cash flow hedges recognized in Other Comprehensive Income (OCI) during the period.
Unrealized Gain Loss On Foreign Currency Derivatives Net Of Tax
Gain (loss) recognized in OCI, net of tax effect


The amount of tax related to gains (losses) on foreign currency cash flow hedges recognized in Other Comprehensive Income (OCI) during the period.
Unrealized Gain Loss On Foreign Currency Derivatives Tax
Gain (loss) recognized in OCI, tax effect


Unrecognized Tax Benefits
Balance, end of year
Balance, beginning of year
Unrecognized tax benefits


Unrecognized Tax Benefits Decreases Resulting From Prior Period Tax Positions
Decreases for tax positions related to prior years


Unrecognized Tax Benefits Decreases Resulting From Settlements With Taxing Authorities
Decreases related to settlements


Unrecognized Tax Benefits Income Tax Penalties And Interest Accrued
Accrued interest related to uncertain tax positions net of federal income tax benefits


Unrecognized Tax Benefits Income Tax Penalties And Interest Expense
Interest related to unrecognized tax benefits


Unrecognized Tax Benefits Increases Resulting From Current Period Tax Positions
Increases for tax positions related to the current year


Unrecognized Tax Benefits Increases Resulting From Prior Period Tax Positions
Increases for tax positions related to prior years


Unrecognized Tax Benefits Reductions Resulting From Lapse Of Applicable Statute Of Limitations
Decreases due to lapsed statutes of limitations


Unrecognized Tax Benefits That Would Impact Effective Tax Rate
Unrecognized tax benefits, if recognized would affect our effective tax rate


Unvested Stock Awards [Member]
Unvested Stock Awards [Member]
Stock Awards


U S
United States


Use Of Estimates
Estimates and Assumptions


U S Government Agencies Debt Securities [Member]
U.S. government and agency securities


U S States And Political Subdivisions [Member]
Municipal securities


Valuation Allowances And Reserves Balance
Balance, end of period
Balance, beginning of period


Total of allowances and reserves, the valuation and qualifying accounts that are either netted against the cost of an asset (in order to value it at its carrying value) or that reflect a liability established to represent expected future costs, charged to costs and expenses, as well as other adjustments to the reserves that are not charged to costs and expenses.
Valuation Allowances And Reserves Charged To Costs And Other
Charged to costs and other


Valuation Allowances And Reserves Deductions
Write-offs


Valuation Allowances And Reserves [Domain]
Valuation Allowances and Reserves [Domain]


Valuation Allowances And Reserves Type [Axis]
Valuation Allowances and Reserves Type [Axis]


Valuation And Qualifying Accounts Disclosure [Line Items]
Valuation and Qualifying Accounts Disclosure [Line Items]


Valuation And Qualifying Accounts Disclosure [Table]
Valuation and Qualifying Accounts Disclosure [Table]


Vesting Period [Axis]
Vesting Period [Axis]
Vesting Period [Axis]


Vesting Period [Domain]
Vesting Period [Domain]
Vesting Period [Domain]


Volume Licensing Programs [Member]
Volume Licensing Programs [Member]
Volume Licensing Programs


Weighted Average Number Of Diluted Shares Outstanding
Diluted
Common stock and common stock equivalents (C)


Weighted Average Number Of Shares Outstanding [Abstract]
Weighted average shares outstanding:


Weighted Average Number Of Shares Outstanding Basic
Basic
Weighted average outstanding shares of common stock (B)


Windows and Windows Live [Member]
Windows And Windows Live [Member]
Windows & Windows Live Division


Windows PC operating systems [Member]
Windows Personal Computer Operating Systems [Member]
Windows PC operating systems


Windows Upgrade Offer [Member]
Windows Upgrade Offer [Member]
Windows Upgrade Offer


Wisconsin [Member]
Wisconsin [Member]
Wisconsin


Xbox 360 platform [Member]
Xbox Three Sixty Platform [Member]
Xbox 360 platform


Yammer, Inc [Member]
Yammer Inc [Member]
Yammer, Inc.







EX-101.PRE
15
msft-20120630_pre.xml
XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION PRESENTATION LINKBASE
































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































XML
16
R39.htm
IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT


/* Do Not Remove This Comment */
v2.4.0.6






XML
17
R112.htm
IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT


/* Do Not Remove This Comment */
v2.4.0.6







XML
18
R54.htm
IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT


/* Do Not Remove This Comment */
v2.4.0.6













XML
19
R48.htm
IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT


/* Do Not Remove This Comment */
v2.4.0.6







XML
20
R121.htm
IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT


/* Do Not Remove This Comment */
v2.4.0.6









XML
21
R70.htm
IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT


/* Do Not Remove This Comment */
v2.4.0.6













XML
22
R124.htm
IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT


/* Do Not Remove This Comment */
v2.4.0.6











XML
23
R55.htm
IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT


/* Do Not Remove This Comment */
v2.4.0.6







XML
24
R78.htm
IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT


/* Do Not Remove This Comment */
v2.4.0.6







XML
25
R104.htm
IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT


/* Do Not Remove This Comment */
v2.4.0.6











XML
26
R46.htm
IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT


/* Do Not Remove This Comment */
v2.4.0.6






XML
27
R33.htm
IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT


/* Do Not Remove This Comment */
v2.4.0.6







XML
28
R79.htm
IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT


/* Do Not Remove This Comment */
v2.4.0.6









XML
29
R118.htm
IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT


/* Do Not Remove This Comment */
v2.4.0.6







XML
30
report.css
IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT

/* Updated 2009-11-04 */
/* v2.2.0.24 */

/* DefRef Styles */
..report table.authRefData{
	background-color: #def;
	border: 2px solid #2F4497;
	font-size: 1em;
	position: absolute;
}

..report table.authRefData a {
	display: block;
	font-weight: bold;
}

..report table.authRefData p {
	margin-top: 0px;
}

..report table.authRefData .hide {
	background-color: #2F4497;
	padding: 1px 3px 0px 0px;
	text-align: right;
}

..report table.authRefData .hide a:hover {
	background-color: #2F4497;
}

..report table.authRefData .body {
	height: 150px;
	overflow: auto;
	width: 400px;
}

..report table.authRefData table{
	font-size: 1em;
}

/* Report Styles */
..pl a, .pl a:visited {
	color: black;
	text-decoration: none;
}

/* table */
..report {
	background-color: white;
	border: 2px solid #acf;
	clear: both;
	color: black;
	font: normal 8pt Helvetica, Arial, san-serif;
	margin-bottom: 2em;
}

..report hr {
	border: 1px solid #acf;
}

/* Top labels */
..report th {
	background-color: #acf;
	color: black;
	font-weight: bold;
	text-align: center;
}

..report th.void	{
	background-color: transparent;
	color: #000000;
	font: bold 10pt Helvetica, Arial, san-serif;
	text-align: left;
}

..report .pl {
	text-align: left;
	vertical-align: top;
	white-space: normal;
	width: 200px;
	word-wrap: break-word;
}

..report td.pl a.a {
	cursor: pointer;
	display: block;
	width: 200px;
}

..report td.pl div.a {
	width: 200px;
}

..report td.pl a:hover {
	background-color: #ffc;
}

/* Header rows... */
..report tr.rh {
	background-color: #acf;
	color: black;
	font-weight: bold;
}

/* Calendars... */
..report .rc {
	background-color: #f0f0f0;
}

/* Even rows... */
..report .re, .report .reu {
	background-color: #def;
}

..report .reu td {
	border-bottom: 1px solid black;
}

/* Odd rows... */
..report .ro, .report .rou {
	background-color: white;
}

..report .rou td {
	border-bottom: 1px solid black;
}

..report .rou table td, .report .reu table td {
	border-bottom: 0px solid black;
}

/* styles for footnote marker */
..report .fn {
	white-space: nowrap;
}

/* styles for numeric types */
..report .num, .report .nump {
	text-align: right;
	white-space: nowrap;
}

..report .nump {
	padding-left: 2em;
}

..report .nump {
	padding: 0px 0.4em 0px 2em;
}

/* styles for text types */
..report .text {
	text-align: left;
	white-space: normal;
}

..report .text .big {
	margin-bottom: 1em;
	width: 17em;
}

..report .text .more {
	display: none;
}

..report .text .note {
	font-style: italic;
	font-weight: bold;
}

..report .text .small {
	width: 10em;
}

..report sup {
	font-style: italic;
}

..report .outerFootnotes {
	font-size: 1em;
}



XML
31
R73.htm
IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT


/* Do Not Remove This Comment */
v2.4.0.6














XML
32
R89.htm
IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT


/* Do Not Remove This Comment */
v2.4.0.6













XML
33
R57.htm
IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT


/* Do Not Remove This Comment */
v2.4.0.6













XML
34
R109.htm
IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT


/* Do Not Remove This Comment */
v2.4.0.6








XML
35
R76.htm
IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT


/* Do Not Remove This Comment */
v2.4.0.6








XML
36
R86.htm
IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT


/* Do Not Remove This Comment */
v2.4.0.6













XML
37
R81.htm
IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT


/* Do Not Remove This Comment */
v2.4.0.6








XML
38
R87.htm
IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT


/* Do Not Remove This Comment */
v2.4.0.6













XML
39
R77.htm
IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT


/* Do Not Remove This Comment */
v2.4.0.6









XML
40
R71.htm
IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT


/* Do Not Remove This Comment */
v2.4.0.6













XML
41
R25.htm
IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT


/* Do Not Remove This Comment */
v2.4.0.6






XML
42
R50.htm
IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT


/* Do Not Remove This Comment */
v2.4.0.6










XML
43
R42.htm
IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT


/* Do Not Remove This Comment */
v2.4.0.6







XML
44
R75.htm
IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT


/* Do Not Remove This Comment */
v2.4.0.6















XML
45
R97.htm
IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT


/* Do Not Remove This Comment */
v2.4.0.6










XML
46
R37.htm
IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT


/* Do Not Remove This Comment */
v2.4.0.6






XML
47
R52.htm
IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT


/* Do Not Remove This Comment */
v2.4.0.6











XML
48
R67.htm
IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT


/* Do Not Remove This Comment */
v2.4.0.6







XML
49
R111.htm
IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT


/* Do Not Remove This Comment */
v2.4.0.6















XML
50
R61.htm
IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT


/* Do Not Remove This Comment */
v2.4.0.6







XML
51
R47.htm
IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT


/* Do Not Remove This Comment */
v2.4.0.6








XML
52
R9.htm
IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT


/* Do Not Remove This Comment */
v2.4.0.6






XML
53
R116.htm
IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT


/* Do Not Remove This Comment */
v2.4.0.6








XML
54
R62.htm
IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT


/* Do Not Remove This Comment */
v2.4.0.6

















EXCEL
55
Financial_Report.xls
IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT

begin 644 Financial_Report.xls
M[[N_34E-12U697)S:6]N.B`Q+C`-"E@M1&]C=6UE;G0M5'EP93H@5V]R:V)O
M;VL-"D-O;G1E;G0M5'EP93H@;75L=&EP87)T+W)E;&%T960[(&)O=6YD87)Y
M/2(M+2TM/5].97AT4&%R=%\R.6$R9CDV95\T,&9C7S1C,F%?8C$Y95\U-3(X
M,S=B,#$T93(B#0H-"E1H:7,@9&]C=6UE;G0@:7,@82!3:6YG;&4@1FEL92!7
M96(@4&%G92P@86QS;R!K;F]W;B!A'!L;W)E&UL;G,Z=CTS1")U&UL;G,Z;STS1")U&UL/@T*(#QX.D5X8V5L5V]R:V)O;VL^#0H@(#QX
M.D5X8V5L5V]R:W-H965T5]);F9O#I%>&-E;%=O#I7;W)K#I.86UE/@T*("`@(#QX.E=O#I%>&-E;%=O#I.86UE/D)A;&%N8V5?4VAE971S7U!A#I7;W)K#I7;W)K#I7;W)K#I%>&-E;%=O#I%>&-E
M;%=O#I7;W)K
M#I.86UE/@T*("`@(#QX
M.E=O#I%>&-E;%=O
M#I.86UE/D1E#I%>&-E;%=O#I7;W)K#I.86UE/@T*("`@(#QX.E=O#I%>&-E;%=O#I.
M86UE/E!R;W!E#I7
M;W)K#I7;W)K#I.86UE/@T*("`@(#QX.E=O#I%>&-E;%=O#I.86UE/DEN=&%N9VEB
M;&5?07-S971S/"]X.DYA;64^#0H@("`@/'@Z5V]R:W-H965T4V]U#I%>&-E
M;%=O#I.86UE/@T*("`@(#QX.E=O#I%>&-E;%=O#I.86UE
M/DEN8V]M95]487AE#I.86UE/@T*("`@(#QX.E=O#I%>&-E;%=O#I.86UE/E5N96%R;F5D7U)E=F5N=64\+W@Z3F%M93X-"B`@("`\>#I7;W)K
M#I.86UE/@T*("`@(#QX.E=O#I%>&-E;%=O#I.86UE/D-O;6UI=&UE
M;G1S7T%N9%]'=6%R86YT965S/"]X.DYA;64^#0H@("`@/'@Z5V]R:W-H965T
M4V]U#I%>&-E;%=O#I.86UE/@T*("`@(#QX.E=O
M#I%>&-E;%=O#I.86UE/E-T;V-K:&]L9&5R#I7;W)K#I7;W)K#I7;W)K#I7;W)K#I%>&-E;%=O#I%>&-E
M;%=O#I.86UE/@T*("`@
M(#QX.E=O#I%>&-E
M;%=O#I.86UE/D%C8V]U;G1I;F=?4&]L:6-I97-?
M5&%B;&5S/"]X.DYA;64^#0H@("`@/'@Z5V]R:W-H965T4V]U#I%>&-E;%=O
M#I.86UE/@T*("`@(#QX.E=O
M#I%>&-E;%=O#I.86UE/D]T:&5R7TEN8V]M95]%>'!E;G-E7U1A8FQE
M#I.86UE/@T*("`@(#QX.E=O#I%>&-E;%=O#I.86UE/DEN=F5S
M=&UE;G1S7U1A8FQE#I.86UE/@T*("`@(#QX.E=O#I%>&-E;%=O#I.86UE/D1E#I.86UE/@T*("`@(#QX.E=O
M#I%>&-E;%=O#I.86UE/D9A:7)?5F%L=65?365A#I.86UE/@T*("`@(#QX.E=O#I%>&-E;%=O#I.86UE/DEN
M=F5N=&]R:65S7U1A8FQE#I.86UE/@T*("`@(#QX.E=O#I%>&-E;%=O#I.86UE/E!R;W!E#I%>&-E;%=O#I.86UE/@T*("`@(#QX.E=O#I%>&-E;%=O#I.86UE/D=O;V1W:6QL7U1A8FQE#I.86UE/@T*("`@(#QX.E=O
M#I%>&-E;%=O#I.86UE/DEN=&%N9VEB;&5?07-S971S7U1A8FQE#I.86UE/@T*("`@(#QX.E=O#I%>&-E;%=O#I.86UE/D1E8G1?5&%B
M;&5S/"]X.DYA;64^#0H@("`@/'@Z5V]R:W-H965T4V]U#I%>&-E;%=O&5S7U1A8FQE#I.86UE/@T*("`@(#QX.E=O#I%>&-E;%=O#I.86UE/E5N96%R;F5D7U)E=F5N=65?5&%B;&5S/"]X.DYA;64^#0H@
M("`@/'@Z5V]R:W-H965T4V]U#I%>&-E;%=O#I%
M>&-E;%=O#I%>&-E;%=O5]486)L97,\+W@Z3F%M93X-"B`@("`\>#I7;W)K#I%>&-E;%=O#I.86UE/@T*("`@(#QX.E=O#I%>&-E;%=O#I.86UE/E-E9VUE;G1?26YF;W)M871I;VY?86YD7T=E;V=R83$\+W@Z
M3F%M93X-"B`@("`\>#I7;W)K#I%>&-E;%=O#I%>&-E;%=O#I%>&-E;%=O#I%>&-E;%=O#I%>&-E;%=O#I%>&-E;%=O
M#I%>&-E;%=O#I%>&-E
M;%=O#I%>&-E;%=O#I%
M>&-E;%=O#I%>&-E;%=O#I%>&-E;%=O#I%>&-E;%=O#I%>&-E;%=O#I%>&-E;%=O#I%>&-E;%=O#I.86UE/@T*("`@(#QX.E=O#I%>&-E;%=O#I.86UE/DYO;D1E
M#I.86UE/@T*("`@(#QX.E=O
M#I%>&-E;%=O#I.86UE/D%S#I.86UE/@T*("`@(#QX.E=O#I%>&-E;%=O#I.86UE/E)E
M8V]N8VEL:6%T:6]N7V]F7U1O=&%L7T%S#I.86UE/@T*("`@(#QX
M.E=O#I%>&-E;%=O
M#I.86UE/D-H86YG97-?:6Y?1FEN86YC:6%L7TEN
M#I.86UE/@T*("`@(#QX.E=O#I%>&-E;%=O#I.86UE
M/D-O;7!O;F5N='-?;V9?26YV96YT;W)I97-?1&5T83PO>#I.86UE/@T*("`@
M(#QX.E=O#I%>&-E
M;%=O#I.86UE/D-O;7!O;F5N='-?;V9?4')O#I.86UE/@T*("`@(#QX.E=O#I%>&-E;%=O#I.
M86UE/E!R;W!E#I.86UE/@T*
M("`@(#QX.E=O#I%
M>&-E;%=O#I.86UE/D)U#I.86UE/@T*("`@(#QX.E=O#I%>&-E;%=O#I.86UE/D%C<75I#I.86UE
M/@T*("`@(#QX.E=O#I%>&-E;%=O#I.86UE/D-A#I.86UE/@T*("`@(#QX.E=O#I%>&-E;%=O#I.86UE/D=O;V1W:6QL7T%D9&ET:6]N86Q?26YF;W)M871I;SPO>#I.
M86UE/@T*("`@(#QX.E=O#I%>&-E;%=O#I.86UE/D9I;FET94QI=F5D7TEN=&%N9VEB;&5?07-S971S7S$\
M+W@Z3F%M93X-"B`@("`\>#I7;W)K#I7;W)K
M#I7;W)K#I7
M;W)K#I7;W)K#I.86UE/@T*("`@(#QX.E=O#I%>&-E;%=O#I.86UE/DUA='5R:71I97-?;V9?3&]N9W1E#I.86UE/@T*("`@(#QX.E=O#I%>&-E;%=O#I.86UE/E!R;W9I&5S7T1E=#PO>#I.86UE/@T*("`@(#QX.E=O#I%>&-E;%=O#I.86UE/DEN8V]M95]"969O&5S7T1E
M=#PO>#I.86UE/@T*("`@(#QX.E=O#I%>&-E;%=O#I.86UE/D1I9F9E
M#I.86UE/@T*("`@(#QX.E=O
M#I%>&-E;%=O#I.86UE/D1E9F5R#I.86UE/@T*("`@(#QX.E=O#I%>&-E;%=O#I.86UE/DEN
M8V]M95]487AE#I.86UE/@T*("`@(#QX
M.E=O#I%>&-E;%=O
M#I.86UE/D-H86YG97-?:6Y?56YR96-O9VYI>F5D
M7U1A>%]"93PO>#I.86UE/@T*("`@(#QX.E=O#I%>&-E;%=O#I.86UE
M/DEN8V]M95]487AE#I7;W)K#I7;W)K#I%>&-E;%=O5]396=M96YT7T1E/"]X.DYA;64^#0H@("`@/'@Z5V]R:W-H965T4V]U
M#I%>&-E;%=O#I%>&-E;%=O#I%>&-E;%=O#I%>&-E;%=O#I%>&-E;%=O#I.86UE/E-H87)E#I.86UE/@T*("`@(#QX.E=O#I7
M;W)K#I%>&-E;%=O#I%>&-E;%=O#I.86UE/D1I=FED
M96YD#I7;W)K#I%>&-E;%=O#I%>&-E;%=O#I.86UE/D]T:&5R
M7T-O;7!R96AE;G-I=F5?26YC;VUE7V%N9#$\+W@Z3F%M93X-"B`@("`\>#I7
M;W)K#I%>&-E;%=O#I%>&-E;%=O#I.86UE
M/D5M65E7U-T;V-K7V%N9%]3879I;F=S7U!L83(\+W@Z3F%M93X-"B`@
M("`\>#I7;W)K#I%>&-E;%=O#I%>&-E;%=O#I.86UE/D%S#I.86UE
M/@T*("`@(#QX.E=O#I.86UE/@T*("`@(#QX.E=O#I7;W)K#I%>&-E;%=O#I%>&-E;%=O#I.86UE/E-T;V-K7T]P=&EO;E]%>&5R8VES95]!8W1I=FET>3PO
M>#I.86UE/@T*("`@(#QX.E=O#I7;W)K
M#I%>&-E;%=O#I.86UE/@T*("`@(#QX.E=O#I7;W)K#I%>&-E;%=O#I%>&-E;%=O#I.
M86UE/E)E=F5N=65?0VQA5]-86IO#I.86UE/@T*
M("`@(#QX.E=O#I7;W)K#I%>&-E;%=O&-L=61I;F=?1FEN/"]X.DYA
M;64^#0H@("`@/'@Z5V]R:W-H965T4V]U#I%>&-E;%=O#I.86UE/E-U8G-E<75E;G1?
M179E;G1S7T%D9&ET:6]N86Q?23PO>#I.86UE/@T*("`@(#QX.E=O#I%>&-E;%=O#I.86UE/E%U87)T
M97)L>5]);F9O#I7
M;W)K#I%>&-E;%=O#I!8W1I=F53:&5E=#XP/"]X.D%C=&EV95-H
M965T/@T*("`\>#I0#I%>&-E;%=O7!E.B!T97AT+VAT;6P[(&-H87)S970](G5S+6%S8VEI(@T*#0H\
M:'1M;#X-"B`@/&AE860^#0H@("`@/$U%5$$@:'1T'0O:'1M;#L@8VAA7!E/3-$=&5X="]J879A'0^/'-P86X^/"]S
M'0^/'-P86X^/"]S
M6UB;VP\+W1D/@T*("`@("`@("`\=&0@
M8VQA2!296=I'0^/'-P
M86X^/"]S'0^/'-P
M86X^/"]S"!+97D\+W1D/@T*("`@("`@("`\=&0@8VQA
M2!796QL+6MN;W=N(%-E87-O;F5D($ES'0^665S/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S2!6;VQU;G1A'0^
M/'-P86X^/"]S'0^
M/'-P86X^/"]S2!0=6)L:6,@1FQO870\
M+W1D/@T*("`@("`@("`\=&0@8VQA'1087)T7S(Y83)F.39E7S0P9F-?
M-&,R85]B,3EE7S4U,C@S-V(P,31E,@T*0V]N=&5N="U,;V-A=&EO;CH@9FEL
M93HO+R]#.B\R.6$R9CDV95\T,&9C7S1C,F%?8C$Y95\U-3(X,S=B,#$T93(O
M5V]R:W-H965T'0O:F%V87-C3X-"B`@
M("`\=&%B;&4@8VQA&-E'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^
M/"]S'0^/'-P86X^
M/"]S'!E;G-E&5S
M/"]T9#X-"B`@("`@("`@/'1D(&-L87-S/3-$;G5M&5S/"]T9#X-"B`@("`@("`@/'1D(&-L87-S/3-$
M;G5M'1087)T7S(Y83)F.39E7S0P9F-?-&,R85]B,3EE
M7S4U,C@S-V(P,31E,@T*0V]N=&5N="U,;V-A=&EO;CH@9FEL93HO+R]#.B\R
M.6$R9CDV95\T,&9C7S1C,F%?8C$Y95\U-3(X,S=B,#$T93(O5V]R:W-H965T
M'0O:F%V87-C
M3X-"B`@("`\=&%B;&4@
M8VQA2!A;F0@3W1H97(@26YV97-T;65N=',\+W1D
M/@T*("`@("`@("`\=&0@8VQA7!E
M.B!T97AT+VAT;6P[(&-H87)S970](G5S+6%S8VEI(@T*#0H\:'1M;#X-"B`@
M/&AE860^#0H@("`@/$U%5$$@:'1T'0O:'1M;#L@8VAA7!E/3-$=&5X="]J879A2!A;F0@97%U:7!M96YT+"!A8V-U
M;75L871E9"!D97!R96-I871I;VX\+W1D/@T*("`@("`@("`\=&0@8VQAF5D/"]T9#X-"B`@("`@("`@/'1D(&-L87-S/3-$;G5M3X-"CPO:'1M;#X-"@T*+2TM+2TM/5].97AT
M4&%R=%\R.6$R9CDV95\T,&9C7S1C,F%?8C$Y95\U-3(X,S=B,#$T93(-"D-O
M;G1E;G0M3&]C871I;VXZ(&9I;&4Z+R\O0SHO,CEA,F8Y-F5?-#!F8U\T8S)A
M7V(Q.65?-34R.#,W8C`Q-&4R+U=O'0O:'1M;#L@8VAA7!E(&-O;G1E;G0],T0G=&5X="]H=&UL.R!C:&%R'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'!E;G-E/"]T9#X-"B`@("`@("`@/'1D
M(&-L87-S/3-$;G5MF5D(&=A:6YS(&]N(&EN=F5S
M=&UE;G1S(&%N9"!D97)I=F%T:79E&-E6%B;&4\+W1D/@T*("`@("`@("`\=&0@8VQA
M'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^
M/'-P86X^/"]S'0^
M/'-P86X^/"]S&-E6%B;&4\+W1D/@T*("`@("`@
M("`\=&0@8VQA2`D-BXR(&)I;&QI;VX@86YD(&1I
M;'5T960@96%R;FEN9W,@3X-"CPO:'1M;#X-"@T*
M+2TM+2TM/5].97AT4&%R=%\R.6$R9CDV95\T,&9C7S1C,F%?8C$Y95\U-3(X
M,S=B,#$T93(-"D-O;G1E;G0M3&]C871I;VXZ(&9I;&4Z+R\O0SHO,CEA,F8Y
M-F5?-#!F8U\T8S)A7V(Q.65?-34R.#,W8C`Q-&4R+U=O'0O:'1M;#L@8VAA7!E(&-O;G1E;G0],T0G=&5X="]H=&UL.R!C
M:&%R'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]SF5D(&=A:6YS("AL;W-S97,I
M(&]N(&EN=F5S=&UE;G1S/"]T9#X-"B`@("`@("`@/'1D(&-L87-S/3-$;G5M
M'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S
M'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P
M86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S
M'0^/'-P86X^/"]S2`D,"XW
M,RX\+W1D/@T*("`@("`@/"]T7!E.B!T97AT+VAT
M;6P[(&-H87)S970](G5S+6%S8VEI(@T*#0H\:'1M;#X-"B`@/&AE860^#0H@
M("`@/$U%5$$@:'1T'0O:'1M;#L@8VAA7!E/3-$=&5X
M="]J879A#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X
M)R!A;&EG;CTS1&-E;G1E6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"#(P,30[#0I!0T-/54Y4
M24Y'(%!/3$E#2453/"]U/CPO9F]N=#X\+W`^#0H\6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X)R!A;&EG;CTS1&IU
MF4],T0R/E1H92!F:6YA;F-I86P@6EN9R!N;W1E#(P,40[*2X\+V9O;G0^/"]P/@T*/'`@#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&
M3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/E!R:6YC:7!L97,@;V8-
M"D-O;G-O;&ED871I;VX\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO6QE/3-$)TU!
M4D=)3BU43U`Z(#$R"2!T#(P,3D[6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#$X"#L@34%2
M1TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X)R!A;&EG;CTS1&IUF4],T0R/E!R97!A"!R971U6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#$X"6QE
M/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#$R"#(P,4,[3T-))B-X,C`Q1#LI+CPO9F]N=#X\+W`^#0H\
M6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X
M)R!A;&EG;CTS1&IUF4],T0R/E)E=F5N=64@:7,@2!I#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X)R!A
M;&EG;CTS1&IUF4],T0R/E)E=F5N=64@9F]R(')E=&%I;`T*2!G=6%R86YT964@
M&ES=&EN9PT*#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X)R!A;&EG;CTS1&IUF4],T0R/D-E65AF5D(&%S(')E=F5N=64-"G)A=&%B;'D@;W9E&ES="!F;W(@=&AE('5P9W)A9&5S+V5N:&%N
M8V5M96YTF5D(&]N(&$-"G-T#L@34%2
M1TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X)R!A;&EG;CTS1&IUF4],T0R/E)E=F5N=64@6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#$R"F5D(&%S('-E6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#$X
M"6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#$R"0T*8V]S=',[(&EN=F5N=&]R>2!V
M86QU871I;VX@861J=7-T;65N=',[(&-OF%T:6]N(&]F#0IC87!I=&%L:7IE9"!R97-E87)C:"!A;F0@9&5V
M96QOF5D(')E#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X)SX\
M9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB
M/E!R;V1U8W0@5V%R6QE/3-$
M)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#$R"F5D+@T*1F]R(&AA2!T97)M2!I;B!W:&EC:"!W92!D;R!B=7-I;F5S$$P.V1A>7,@
M=&\@=&AR964@>65A&5S+"!S=6-H
M(&%S('-E8W5R:71Y('!A=&-H97,L#0IO=F5R('1H92!E2!R965V86QU871E#0IO
M=7(@97-T:6UA=&5S('1O(&%S2X\+V9O;G0^/"]P/@T*/'`@#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X)SX\9F]N="!S
M='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/E)E6QE
M/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#$R"'!E
M;G-EF%T:6]N(&-O2!I2!I6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#$X"3X-"CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"'!E;G-E+"!A;F0@;W1H97(@
M:&5A9&-O=6YT+7)E;&%T960@97AP96YS97,-"F%S'!E;G-E
M('=A$$P.SPO6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#!P>#L@
M34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,
M63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/E-T;V-K+4)A6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#$R
M"F4@:70@87,@97AP96YS92P@;F5T(&]F(&5S=&EM
M871E9"!F;W)F96ET=7)E2!F;W5R('1O(&9I=F4@>65A6QE/3-$)TU!
M4D=)3BU43U`Z(#$X"#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X)R!A
M;&EG;CTS1&IUF4],T0R/E-H87)E65E2!O9B!E86-H#0IT:')E92UM;VYT
M:"!P97)I;V0N($-O;7!E;G-A=&EO;B!E>'!E;G-E(&9O#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!
M34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/DEN8V]M92!487AE#L@34%21TE.
M+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X)R!A;&EG;CTS1&IUF4],T0R/DEN8V]M92!T87@@97AP
M96YS90T*:6YC;'5D97,@52Y3+B!A;F0@:6YT97)N871I;VYA;"!I;F-O;64@
M=&%X97,L('1H92!P&5S(&]N('5N9&ES
M=')I8G5T960@96%R;FEN9W,@;V8@:6YT97)N871I;VYA;"!S=6)S:61I87)I
M97,-"FYO="!D965M960@=&\@8F4@"!R971U"!E9F9E8W0@;V8@2!T:&%N(&YO="!T:&%T(&$@=&%X#0IB96YE9FET('=I
M;&P@;F]T(&)E(')E86QI>F5D+B!4:&4@9&5F97)R960@:6YC;VUE('1A>&5S
M(&%R90T*8VQA2X\+V9O;G0^/"]P/@T*/'`@#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS
M1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/D9A:7(@5F%L=64-
M"DUE87-U#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X)R!A;&EG;CTS1&IU
MF4],T0R/E=E(&%C8V]U;G0@9F]R(&-E2!B96QO=R!L
M:7-T2X@
M5&AE6QE/3-$)TU!
M4D=)3BU43U`Z(#!P>#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X.R!&3TY4+5-)6D4Z
M(#9P>"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1'1OF4],T0R/B8C>#(P,C([
M/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$=&]P('=I9'1H/3-$,24^/&9O
M;G0@3X\9F]N="!S
M='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQI/DQE=F5L
M(#$\+VD^("8C>#(P,3,[(&EN0T*=')A9&5D(&UU='5A;"!F=6YD$$P.SPO6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"2!O8G-E6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#!P>#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X
M.R!&3TY4+5-)6D4Z(#9P>"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1'1OF4]
M,T0R/B8C>#(P,C([/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$=&]P('=I
M9'1H/3-$,24^/&9O;G0@3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4]
M,T0R/CQI/DQE=F5L(#,\+VD^("8C>#(P,3,[(&EN2!R969L96-T(&UA;F%G
M96UE;G0F(W@R,#$Y.W,@97-T:6UA=&5S(&]F(&%S2X-"E1H92!F86ER('9A;'5E6QE
M/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#$R#L@1D].
M5"U325I%.B`Q3X-"CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"2!I;F-L
M=61E('%U;W1E9"!M87)K970@&-E961S(&ET2X\+V9O;G0^/"]P/@T*/'`@#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X)R!A;&EG;CTS1&IUF4],T0R
M/D]U6EN9R!V86QU97,N/"]F
M;VYT/CPO6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#$X"3X-"CQF;VYT('-T>6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"0T*;&EQ=6ED(&EN=&5R97-T+65A6]N9"!O;F4@>65AF5D(&=A:6YS(&%N9"!L
M;W-S97,@87)E#0IR96-O2!I;7!A:7)M96YT3X-"CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"0T*:6YS=')U;65N=',N($1E8G0@86YD('!U8FQI8VQY+71R861E9"!E<75I
M='D@&-L=61I;F0T*=')A9&5D(&%R92!R96-O
M3X-"CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"2!S96-U2X\+V9O;G0^/"]P/@T*/'`@#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X)R!A;&EG;CTS1&IUF4]
M,T0R/DEN=F5S=&UE;G1S(&%R90T*8V]N0T*879A:6QA8FQE(&UA0T*;6%N
M86=E;65N="X@5V4@96UP;&]Y(&$@2!O
M;B!A('%U87)T97)L>2!B87-I&-E961S(&ET
M'1E;G0@=&\@=VAI8V@@=&AE(&9A:7(@=F%L=64-"FES(&QE2!S96-U2!T;R!H;VQD+"!O&5D+6EN8V]M90T*2P@86X@:6UP86ER;65N="!C:&%R9V4@:7,@3X-"CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#$R"F5D(&EN(&5AF5D(&EN(&5A$$P.SPO6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z
M(#!P>#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X)R!A;&EG;CTS1&IUF4],T0R/D9O
M2!R96-O9VYI>F5D(&EN(&5AF5D(&EN(&5AF5D(&EN#0IE87)N
M:6YG#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X)R!A;&EG;CTS1&IUF4],T0R/D9O2!R96-O9VYI>F5D(&EN(&]T:&5R
M(&EN8V]M90T**&5X2!O9F9S970@8GD@=6YR96%L
M:7IE9"!G86EN6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#$R"2!I;B!T:&4@86QL;W=A;F-E#0IF;W(@
M9&]U8G1F=6P@86-C;W5N=',@=V%S(&%S(&9O;&QO=W,Z/"]F;VYT/CPO6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#!P>#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@
M,'!X.R!&3TY4+5-)6D4Z(#$R6QE/3-$)T)/4D1%4BU#3TQ,05!313H@8V]L;&%P6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O
M;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^
M/"]T9#X-"CPO='(^#0H\='(^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&-O;'-P
M86X],T0Q,CX-"CQHF4],T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO
M=&0^#0H\+W1R/@T*/'1R/@T*/'1D/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@8V]LF4],T0Q/CQB/EEE
M87(@16YD960@2G5N928C>$$P.S,P+#PO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V
M86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.S,S,SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^
M/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R
M/B0\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R
M:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4]
M,T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.S0U,3PO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS
M1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT
M('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG
M('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'
M24XM3$5&5#H@,F5M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))
M04PG('-I>F4],T0R/E=R:71E+6]F9G,\+V9O;G0^/"]P/@T*/"]T9#X-"CQT
M9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B@U-CPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^
M/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4]
M,T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A
M;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"F4],T0Q
M('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L
M:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE
M/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!S:7IE/3-$,2!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D
M92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$
M)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P
M)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,
M63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B0\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@
M=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&%L:6=N/3-$F4],T0R/CQB
M/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B
M;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!
M,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4]
M,T0S(&YOF4],T0S
M(&YOF4]
M,T0S('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@
M=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!S:7IE/3-$,R!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S
M:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE
M/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@#L@34%21TE.+4)/
M5%1/33H@,'!X)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG
M('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/DEN=F5N=&]R:65S/"]B/CPO9F]N=#X\+W`^#0H\3X-"CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"2!O9B!O=7(@:6YV96YT
M;W)Y+B!)9B!O=7(-"G)E=FEE=R!I;F1I8V%T97,@82!R961U8W1I;VX@:6X@
M=71I;&ET>2!B96QO=R!C87)R>6EN9R!V86QU92P@=V4-"G)E9'5C92!O=7(@
M:6YV96YT;W)Y('1O(&$@;F5W(&-O6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE
M/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#$R"2!A;F0@97%U:7!M96YT(&ES#0IS=&%T
M960@870@8V]S="!A;F0@9&5P65A65A6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#$R"6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#$X#L@1D].5"U325I%.B`Q6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$
M)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#$R"65A2!O9@T*
M:6YT86YG:6)L92!A6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#$X"6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#$R"2!A9&]P=&5D(&%C8V]U;G1I
M;F3X-"CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"28C>$$P.S$L(#(P,3$L('=E#0IA9&]P=&5D(&=U:61A
M;F-E(&ES2!T:&4@1FEN86YC:6%L($%C8V]U;G1I;F$$P.U1H92!G=6ED86YC92!R97%U:7)E6QE/3-$
M)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#$R"$$P.U1H92!G=6ED86YC90T*;&EM:71S
M('1H92!H:6=H97-T+6%N9"UB97-T+75S92!M96%S=7)E('1O(&YO;F9I;F%N
M8VEA;"!A2!C6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"#L@
M34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X)R!A;&EG;CTS1&IUF4],T0R/DEN($1E8V5M
M8F5R(#(P,3$L('1H90T*1D%30B!I28C>#(P,3D[3X-"CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F5D(&9O3X-"CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"#(P,3D[(&5Q=6ET>2XF(WA!,#M);G-T96%D
M+"!A;B!E;G1I='D@=VEL;"!B90T*2X@5&AE(&YE=R!G=6ED86YC92!A;'-O(')E<75I2!C
M;VUP;VYE;G0@:6X@8F]T:"!T:&4@2!D969E3X-"CPO:'1M;#X-"@T*+2TM+2TM/5].97AT4&%R=%\R.6$R9CDV95\T,&9C
M7S1C,F%?8C$Y95\U-3(X,S=B,#$T93(-"D-O;G1E;G0M3&]C871I;VXZ(&9I
M;&4Z+R\O0SHO,CEA,F8Y-F5?-#!F8U\T8S)A7V(Q.65?-34R.#,W8C`Q-&4R
M+U=O'0O
M:'1M;#L@8VAA7!E(&-O;G1E;G0]
M,T0G=&5X="]H=&UL.R!C:&%R#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X)R!A;&EG;CTS1&IUF4]
M,T0R/D)A#(P,4,[15!3)B-X
M,C`Q1#LI(&ES(&-O;7!U=&5D(&)A2!S=&]C:PT*;65T
M:&]D+B!$:6QU=&EV92!P;W1E;G1I86P@8V]M;6]N('-H87)E#L@1D].5"U325I%.B`Q,G!X)SX-"B8C>$$P.SPO
MF4],T0Q/CQB/BA);B!M:6QL
M:6]NF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P
M.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQS
MF4],T0Q/B8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q(&YO
MF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQS6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQS6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQS6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&
M5#H@,65M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I
M>F4],T0R/DYE="!I;F-O;64@879A:6QA8FQE(&9O6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P
M.S$V+#DW.#PO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@
M;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!
M34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B0\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI
M9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4
M+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.S$X+#6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO
M8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S
M='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT
M/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT
M9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/C$Q-#PO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!S
M:7IE/3-$,2!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N
M/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG
M;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4]
M,T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q
M(&YOF4]
M,T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\+W1R
M/@T*/'1R(&)G8V]L;W(],T0C0T-%149&/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1'1O6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@
M,65M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4]
M,T0R/D-O;6UO;B!S=&]C:R!A;F0@8V]M;6]N('-T;V-K#0IE<75I=F%L96YT
M6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R
M/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q
M/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N
M="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#LF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI
M9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^#0H\:'(@F4],T0S('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E
M/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT
M('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y
M)R!S:7IE/3-$,R!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L
M:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A
M;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I
M>F4],T0S(&YOF4]
M,T0S(&YOF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQS6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,65M)SX\
M9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/D)A
MF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,
M63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B0\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@
M=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&%L:6=N/3-$F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@
M05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B0\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B
M;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,
M63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/C(N-S,\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI
M9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S
M='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B0\+V9O;G0^
M/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N
M="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/C(N,3,\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M
M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,65M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,
M63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/D1I;'5T960@*$$O0RD\+V9O;G0^/"]P/@T*
M/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/C(N,#`\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$
M8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O
M;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C
M,#`P,#`P)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#$R"&-L=61E9"!T:&4@
M9F]L;&]W:6YG#0IS:&%R97,@=6YD97)L>6EN9R!S=&]C:RUB87-E9"!A=V%R
M9',@9G)O;2!T:&4@8V%L8W5L871I;VYS(&]F#0ID:6QU=&5D($504R!B96-A
M=7-E('1H96ER(&EN8VQU6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#!P
M>#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X.R!&3TY4+5-)6D4Z(#$R6QE/3-$)T)/4D1%4BU#3TQ,05!313H@8V]L
M;&%P6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q
M/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N
M="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B
M;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S
M:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T
M;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE
M/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CPO='(^#0H\='(^#0H\=&0@=F%L
M:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&-O;'-P86X],T0Q,CX-"CQHF4],T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H
M861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\+W1R/@T*/'1R/@T*/'1D/CPO=&0^
M#0H\=&0@8V]LF4],T0Q/CQB/EEE87(@16YD960@2G5N928C>$$P.S,P+#PO8CX\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4]
M,T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\
M9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS
M1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!
M34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q(&YO3X-"CQF;VYT
M('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F5R;RUC;W5P
M;VX@9&5B="!S96-U$$P.R8C>#(P,3,[($1E8G0@9F]R#0IA
M9&1I=&EO;F%L(&EN9F]R;6%T:6]N+CPO9F]N=#X\+W`^#0H\+V1I=CX\'1087)T7S(Y83)F.39E
M7S0P9F-?-&,R85]B,3EE7S4U,C@S-V(P,31E,@T*0V]N=&5N="U,;V-A=&EO
M;CH@9FEL93HO+R]#.B\R.6$R9CDV95\T,&9C7S1C,F%?8C$Y95\U-3(X,S=B
M,#$T93(O5V]R:W-H965T'0O:F%V87-C3X-"B`@("`\=&%B;&4@8VQA'!E;G-E*3QB
M'!E;G-E*3PO=&0^#0H@("`@("`@(#QT9"!C;&%S'0^/&1I=CX-"CQP('-T>6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#$X"F4],T0R/CQU/DY/5$4@,R`F(W@R
M,#$T.R!/5$A%4@T*24Y#3TU%("A%6%!%3E-%*3PO=3X\+V9O;G0^/"]P/@T*
M/'`@#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@
M,'!X)R!A;&EG;CTS1&IUF4],T0R/E1H92!C;VUP;VYE;G1S(&]F(&]T:&5R
M#0II;F-O;64@*&5X"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE
M/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@
M8V]LF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$
M,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]L
MF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]T6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!S:7IE
M/3-$,2!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$
M8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS
M1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/CQB/C(P,3(\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L
M:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q/CQB/C(P,3$\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L
M:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q/CQB/C(P,3`\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L
M:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/"]T6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/C@P,#PO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT
M9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4
M+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B0\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V
M86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&
M3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/C@T,SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4]
M,T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.R@R.34\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O
M;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C
M>$$P.R@Q-3$\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W
M6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]T6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"F4]
M,T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\
M9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS
M1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T
M9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/C,T.#PO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@
M6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4]
M,T0R/B@W-SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R
M87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@
M05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-
M05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,65M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@
M05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/DYE="!G86EN2!R96UE87-UF4],T0R/B@R-CPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R
M87`^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I
M>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B@S,3PO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4
M+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$
M;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I
M>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4]
M,T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q
M(&YO6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!
M34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B0\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI
M9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4
M+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CDQ,#PO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]TF4],T0Q
M/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4]
M,T0S(&YOF4],T0S
M(&YOF4]
M,T0S('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\+W1R
M/@T*/"]T86)L93X-"CQP('-T>6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#$R#L@1D].5"U325I%.B`Q3X-"CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"#L@1D].
M5"U325I%.B`Q,G!X)SX-"B8C>$$P.SPOF4],T0Q/CQB/BA);B!M:6QL:6]NF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQS6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQS6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQS6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@
M,65M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4]
M,T0R/D]T:&5R+71H86XM=&5M6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^
M/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"F4],T0R/BDF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V
M86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/BDF(WA!,#L\+V9O
M;G0^/"]T9#X-"CPO='(^#0H\='(^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$=&]P/@T*/'`@
M6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O
M;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,
M63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]T6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"$$P.SPO
M8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/BDF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI
M9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/BDF(WA!,#L\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CPO='(^#0H\='(^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M
M(&-O;'-P86X],T0T/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!S
M:7IE/3-$,2!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N
M/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG
M;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4]
M,T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q
M(&YOF4]
M,T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\+W1R
M/@T*/'1R(&)G8V]L;W(],T0C0T-%149&/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1'1O6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@
M,F5M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4]
M,T0R/E1O=&%L/"]F;VYT/CPOF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,
M63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B0\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@
M=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&%L:6=N/3-$F4],T0R/CQB
M/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B
M;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-
M"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!A;&EG
M;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0S(&YOF4],T0S(&YOF4],T0S('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D
M92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q
M/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH
M6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!S:7IE/3-$
M,R!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T
M=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE
M9G0@3X-"CPO:'1M
M;#X-"@T*+2TM+2TM/5].97AT4&%R=%\R.6$R9CDV95\T,&9C7S1C,F%?8C$Y
M95\U-3(X,S=B,#$T93(-"D-O;G1E;G0M3&]C871I;VXZ(&9I;&4Z+R\O0SHO
M,CEA,F8Y-F5?-#!F8U\T8S)A7V(Q.65?-34R.#,W8C`Q-&4R+U=O'0O:'1M;#L@8VAA
M7!E(&-O;G1E;G0],T0G=&5X="]H
M=&UL.R!C:&%R'0^/&1I=CX-"CQP('-T>6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#(T
M"F4],T0R/CQU/DY/
M5$4@-"`F(W@R,#$T.PT*24Y615-4345.5%,\+W4^/"]F;VYT/CPO6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#$R"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"#L@1D].5"U325I%.B`Q,G!X)SX-"B8C>$$P.SPO6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]L6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#!P>#L@
M34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/@T*/&9O;G0@F5D/"]B/CPO9F]N=#X\+W`^#0H\"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-
M"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]L6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#!P>#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/
M33H@,'!X)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/@T*/&9O;G0@F5D/"]B/CPO9F]N
M=#X\+W`^#0H\"6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3""6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#!P>#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,7!X)R!A
M;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/@T*/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q
M/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQS
MF4],T0Q/CQB
M/D-A6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z
M(#!P>#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/@T*/&9O
M;G0@6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU4
M3U`Z(#!P>#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,7!X)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/@T*
M/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q/CQB/E-H;W)T+71E
M6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#!P
M>#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,7!X)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/@T*/&9O;G0@
MF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q/CQB/D5Q=6ET>3PO8CX\+V9O
M;G0^/"]P/@T*/'`@F4],T0Q/CQB/F%N9`T*3W1H97(\+V(^
M/"]F;VYT/CPO6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#!P>#L@34%2
M1TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,7!X)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/@T*/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q/CQB/DIU;F4F(WA!,#LS,"P@,C`Q
M,CPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@
MF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$
M,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O
M;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF
M(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@
MF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!
M,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O
M;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^
M/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T
M9#X-"CPO='(^#0H\='(^#0H\=&0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!C;VQSF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS
M1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B0\+V(^/"]F;VYT
M/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&%L:6=N/3-$6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB
M/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B
M;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/C(L,#$Y/"]B/CPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O
M;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))
M04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B0\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N
M/3-$8F]T=&]M(&%L:6=N/3-$F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I
M>F4],T0R/CQB/B0\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T
M=&]M(&%L:6=N/3-$6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&
M5#H@,65M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I
M>F4],T0R/DUU='5A;"!F=6YDF4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-
M"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
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M6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-
M"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&
M5#H@,65M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I
M>F4],T0R/D-O;6UE6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T
M9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS
M1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.SPO8CX\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H
M=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R
M/CQB/CDV/"]B/CPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N
M;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO
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M;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS
M1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.SPO8CX\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H
M=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R
M/CQB/C`\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO
M=W)AF4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-
M"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V
M86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!
M34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T
M9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S
M='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/C6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V
M86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4
M+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^
M/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N
M="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/C`\
M+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CPO='(^
M#0H\='(@8F=C;VQO6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB
M/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B
M;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@
M05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT
M9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS
M1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B@R/"]B/CPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^
M/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/CQB
M/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B
M;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@
M05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT
M9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS
M1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/C0V+#6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4
M.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,65M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4
M+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/D9O6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R
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M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^
M/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@
M05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT
M9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS
M1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/C4W-3PO8CX\+V9O
M;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,65M)SX\
M9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/DUO
MF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P
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M='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C
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M='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C
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M='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P
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M='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S
M='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P
M.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX]
M,T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I
M>F4],T0R/CQB/C`\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T
M=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^
M/"]T9#X-"CPO='(^#0H\='(^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$=&]P/@T*/'`@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^
M/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M
M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,65M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,
M63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/DUU;FEC:7!A;"!S96-UF4]
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M9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4]
M,T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B
M;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,
M63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/C0Q-CPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT
M9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4]
M,T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B
M;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,
M63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/C0Q-CPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT
M9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM
M3$5&5#H@,65M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG
M('-I>F4],T0R/D-O;6UO;B!A;F0@F4],T0Q
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M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4]
M,T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B
M;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,
M63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/C(L,C`T/"]B/CPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I
M>F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!
M34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B@T,S8\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^
M#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/CQB/BDF(WA!
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M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I
M>F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!
M34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/C`\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\
M=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C
M>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O
M;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@
M05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT
M9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS
M1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/C`\+V(^/"]F;VYT
M/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/CQB
M/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B
M;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R
M/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@
M05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT
M9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS
M1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/C$L,#0S/"]B/CPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R
M87`^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q('=I9'1H
M/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$
M8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/
M3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!S:7IE/3-$,2!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO
M=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2
M.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!A;&EG
M;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D
M92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q
M/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH
M6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!S:7IE/3-$
M,2!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T
M=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE
M9G0@6QE
M/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0Q(&YO
MF4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q('=I
M9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\+W1R/@T*/'1R
M(&)G8V]L;W(],T0C0T-%149&/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1'1O6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,F5M)SX\
M9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/E1O
M=&%L/"]F;VYT/CPOF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))
M04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B0\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N
M/3-$8F]T=&]M(&%L:6=N/3-$F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V
M86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C
M>$$P.S(L-S$V/"]B/CPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL
M93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B0\+V(^/"]F
M;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&%L:6=N/3-$6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4]
M,T0R/CQB/B0\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M
M(&%L:6=N/3-$6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4
M+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B0\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^
M#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&%L:6=N/3-$6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$
M)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!S:7IE/3-$,R!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O
M/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/
M3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!A
M;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0S(&YOF4],T0S(&YOF4],T0S('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S
M:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4]
M,T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-
M"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!S:7IE
M/3-$,R!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$
M8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS
M1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0S
M(&YOF4],T0S(&YO
MF4],T0S
M('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L
M:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE
M/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!S:7IE/3-$,R!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D
M92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$
M)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@F4],T0Q/CQB/D-OF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q/CQB/E5N6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#!P>#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@
M,7!X)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/@T*/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;2!C;VQSF4]
M,T0Q/CQB/E5N6QE/3-$
M)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#!P>#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,7!X)R!A;&EG;CTS
M1')I9VAT/@T*/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!
M,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]L6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#!P
M>#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/@T*/&9O;G0@
MF4],T0Q/CQB/D)A
M"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/CQB/F%N9"8C>$$P.T-A6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#!P>#L@34%21TE.
M+4)/5%1/33H@,7!X)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/@T*/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q/CQB/E-H;W)T+71E6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#!P>#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/
M33H@,7!X)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/@T*/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q/CQB/D5Q=6ET>3PO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]P/@T*/'`@F4],T0Q/CQB/F%N9"8C>$$P.T]T:&5R/"]B/CPO9F]N=#X\+W`^
M#0H\"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4]
M,T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]T6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2
M.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!S:7IE/3-$,2!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^
M#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C
M9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@F4],T0Q/B8C
M>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C
M;VQSF4],T0Q
M/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQS
MF4],T0Q/B8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQS6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG
M('-I>F4],T0R/B0\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@
M86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))
M04PG('-I>F4],T0R/C$L-C0X/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$
M8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/B8C>$$P
M.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N
M="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B
M;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]T6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R
M/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI
M9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/C`\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL
M93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF
M;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@
M05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4]
M,T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\
M9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS
M1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]TF4]
M,T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4]
M,T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A
M;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O
M;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/C`\+V9O;G0^
M/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I
M>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG
M('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!
M,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/C(R
M-3PO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N
M;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]TF4],T0R/C4Y.#PO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R
M87`^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!
M,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/C`\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))
M04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF
M(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@
MF4],T0R
M/C,W,CPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`]
M,T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4]
M,T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\
M9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS
M1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/C,S+#8P-SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@
M05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!
M,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/C,S
M+#6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&
M3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T
M>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"F4],T0Q
M/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R
M/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG
M;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^
M/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/C$Q/"]F;VYT/CPO
M=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/B8C>$$P
M.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N
M="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B
M;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/B@R/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T
M=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/BDF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V
M86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4]
M,T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A
M;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I
M>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I
M>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^
M/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/C(L-#(T/"]F;VYT
M/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/B8C
M>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\
M9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/C`\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B
M;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS
M1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT
M('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))
M04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/C$P+#4W
M-3PO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N
M;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q
M/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N
M="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I
M9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/BDF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B
M;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4]
M,T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\
M9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS
M1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4
M+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I
M>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,
M63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4]
M,T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\
M9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS
M1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT
M9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/C0U-#PO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-
M"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/C0U-#PO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]TF4],T0R/CF4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S
M:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T
M;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/C(L-#@S/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T
M=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O
M;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/B@Q.3,\+V9O
M;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N
M="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B
M;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/C$P+#(Q-3PO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R
M/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI
M9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/C`\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL
M93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF
M;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]TF4],T0R/C8U-#PO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@
M6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^
M/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/C`\+V9O;G0^/"]T
M9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4]
M,T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A
M;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O
M;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/C`\+V9O;G0^
M/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I
M>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H
M861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF
M;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P
M,#`P)R!S:7IE/3-$,2!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@
M=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F
M)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT
M('-I>F4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^
M#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!S:7IE/3-$,2!N;W-H861E
M/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR
M('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2
M.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N
M;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\+W1R/@T*/'1R(&)G8V]L;W(]
M,T0C0T-%149&/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1'1O6QE/3-$)U1%
M6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,F5M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL
M93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/E1O=&%L/"]F;VYT
M/CPOF4]
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M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&
M3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B0\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT
M9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS
M1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.R@R
M,3D\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI
M9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R
M/B0\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R
M:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4]
M,T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SDL-C$P/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N
M/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!
M,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4
M+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B0\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V
M86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&
M3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.S$P+#@V
M-3PO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N
M;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF
M(WA!,#LF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^
M#0H\:'(@F4],T0S('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O
M/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!S:7IE/3-$,R!N
M;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M
M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@
M6QE/3-$
M)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0S(&YOF4],T0S(&YOF4],T0S('=I9'1H
M/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$
M8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/
M3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!S:7IE/3-$,R!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO
M=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2
M.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!A;&EG
M;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0S(&YOF4],T0S(&YOF4],T0S('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D
M92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\+W1R/@T*/"]T86)L93X-"CQP('-T>6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)
M3BU43U`Z(#$X#L@1D].5"U325I%.B`Q
M6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"3X-"CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F5D
M(&QO6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)
M3BU43U`Z(#!P>#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X.R!&3TY4+5-)6D4Z(#$R
M6QE/3-$)T)/4D1%4BU#3TQ,
M05!313H@8V]L;&%PF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#LF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT
M9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q/CQB
M/DQEF4],T0Q
M/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N
M="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B
M;W1T;VT@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^
M/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z
M(#!P>#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/@T*/&9O
M;G0@F4],T0Q/CQB/E5N
M6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU4
M3U`Z(#!P>#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,7!X)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/@T*
M/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]TF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!S:7IE/3-$,2!N;W-H
M861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*
M/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/
M3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q
M(&YOF4],T0Q/CQB/BA);B!M:6QL:6]NF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQS6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"$$P.U9A;'5E/"]B/CPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!
M,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F5D/&)R("\^
M#0I,;W-S97,\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M
M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-
M"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q
M/CQB/D9A:7(F(WA!,#M686QU93PO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI
M9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQS6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"$$P.U9A;'5E/"]B/CPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-
M"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;2!C;VQSF4]
M,T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C
M;VQSF4],T0Q
M/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQS
MF4],T0Q/B8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQS6QE
M/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,65M)SX\9F]N
M="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/E4N4RX@
M9V]V97)N;65N="!A;F0@86=E;F-Y#0IS96-UF4],T0Q/B8C
M>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\
M9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB
M/B0\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&%L:6=N
M/3-$6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/BDF(WA!,#L\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\
M=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&
M3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B0\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO
M=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&%L:6=N/3-$F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!
M34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B0\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\
M=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&%L:6=N/3-$F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@
M05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B0\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L
M:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&%L:6=N/3-$6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/BDF(WA!,#L\
M+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\+W1R/@T*/'1R/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1'1O
M6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&
M5#H@,65M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I
M>F4],T0R/D9OF4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T
M9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P
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M;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-
M"CPO='(^#0H\='(@8F=C;VQO6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO
M8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O
M;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q
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M1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO
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M;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/BDF(WA!,#L\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\
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M/CF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
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M87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V
M86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^
M/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T
M9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^
M/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T
M9#X-"CPO='(^#0H\='(^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&-O;'-P86X]
M,T0T/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!S:7IE/3-$,2!N
M;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M
M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@
M6QE/3-$
M)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q('=I9'1H
M/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$
M8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/
M3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!S:7IE/3-$,2!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO
M=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2
M.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!A;&EG
M;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D
M92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\+W1R/@T*/'1R(&)G8V]L;W(],T0C0T-%149&/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1'1O6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M
M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,F5M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,
M63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/E1O=&%L/"]F;VYT/CPOF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL
M93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B0\+V(^/"]F
M;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&%L:6=N/3-$6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"$$P
M.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@
M6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.S0S-3PO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T
M9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B
M;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.S,L.38T
M/"]B/CPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`]
M,T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4
M+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B0\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^
M#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&%L:6=N/3-$F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2
M.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!S:7IE/3-$,R!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^
M#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C
M9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!A;&EG;CTS
M1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0S(&YOF4],T0S(&YOF4],T0S('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O
M/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!S:7IE/3-$,R!N
M;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M
M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@
M6QE/3-$
M)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0S(&YOF4],T0S(&YOF4],T0S('=I9'1H
M/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\+W1R/@T*/'1R/@T*
M/'1D/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@8V]LF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#LF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^
M/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q/CQB/DQEF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V
M86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI
M9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!A;&EG
M;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q('=I
M9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N
M/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O
M;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CPO='(^
M#0H\='(^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT
M9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q/CQB
M/E5NF4],T0Q/B8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQS6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"$$P.U9A;'5E/"]B/CPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF
M(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@
MF5D/&)R
M("\^#0I,;W-S97,\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T
M=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T
M9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]LF4]
M,T0Q/CQB/E1O=&%L/&)R("\^#0I&86ER)B-X03`[5F%L=64\+V(^/"]F;VYT
M/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S
M:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CPO='(^#0H\='(^#0H\=&0@
M=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&-O;'-P86X],T0R-#X-"CQHF4],T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N
M;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\+W1R/@T*/'1R/@T*/'1D/CPO
M=&0^#0H\=&0@8V]LF4],T0Q/CQB/DIU
M;F4F(WA!,#LS,"P@,C`Q,3PO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI
M9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4]
M,T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\
M9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q
M/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N
M="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B
M;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S
M:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T
M;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE
M/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^
M/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$
M,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CPO='(^#0H\='(^#0H\=&0^/"]T9#X-
M"CQT9"!C;VQS6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!
M,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4]
M,T0R/B0\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX]
M,T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I
M>F4],T0R/C`\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W
M6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!
M34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B0\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI
M9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4
M+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/C`\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V
M86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q
M/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N
M="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B0\+V9O
M;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\
M9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/C0X
M-#PO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N
M;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/"]T6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4]
M,T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A
M;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T
M9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/C`\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-
M"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R
M/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG
M;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4]
M,T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A
M;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]TF4],T0R
M/C8S/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT
M9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/B@S/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@
M=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/BDF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^
M/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL
M93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF
M;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))
M04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/"]TF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&
M3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T
M>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C
M>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\
M9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/B@Q,#PO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&
M3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T
M>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I
M>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^
M/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/C6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]T
MF4],T0R/CF4]
M,T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V
M86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/B@R/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L
M:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/BDF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T
M9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R
M/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI
M9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/C`\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL
M93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF
M;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))
M04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/"]TF4],T0R/C$L,SF4],T0R
M/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI
M9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/B@Q-#8\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI
M9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/C(P-CPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R
M87`^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/C$L-3@S
M/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4]
M,T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V
M86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/B@Q.3,\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V
M86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/"]TF4],T0Q
M(&YOF4]
M,T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@
M=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!S:7IE/3-$,2!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S
M:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE
M/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P
M,#`P)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E
M/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT
M('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P
M)R!S:7IE/3-$,2!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L
M:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A
M;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))
M04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B0\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T
M;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@
M05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B@Q-S`\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O
M;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4]
M,T0R/B0\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX]
M,T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I
M>F4],T0R/B@T.3PO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N
M;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,
M63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B0\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!
M34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/C,L,S8S/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@
M=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$
M,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O
M;G0@F4],T0R/BDF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CPO='(^#0H\='(^#0H\=&0@
M=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!
M,#LF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^#0H\
M:'(@F4],T0S('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO
M=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!S:7IE/3-$,R!N;W-H
M861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*
M/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/
M3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0S(&YOF4],T0S(&YOF4],T0S('=I9'1H/3-$
M,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T
M=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2
M.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!S:7IE/3-$,R!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^
M#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C
M9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!A;&EG;CTS
M1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0S(&YOF4],T0S(&YO3X-"CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"2!A='1R:6)U=&%B;&4@=&\@8VAA
M;F=E6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#$R"2X-"E1H97-E(&EN=F5S=&UE;G1S(&%R92!C87)R
M:65D(&%T(&-O#L@34%21TE.
M+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))
M04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/D1E8G0@26YV97-T;65N=`T*36%T=7)I=&EE"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE
M/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@
M8V]L6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)
M3BU43U`Z(#!P>#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT
M/@T*/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)TU!
M4D=)3BU43U`Z(#!P>#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,7!X)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I
M9VAT/@T*/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]TF4],T0Q(&YO6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"$$P.S,P+"`R,#$R/"]B
M/CPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE
M/3-$,3XF(WA!,#LF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B
M;W1T;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q/B8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S
M:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T
M;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]T6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4]
M,T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V
M86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,65M)SX\
M9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/D1U
M92!A9G1E65AF4],T0Q
M/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R
M/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG
M;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O
M;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/C,Q+#$R-#PO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R
M87`^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"65A65A6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S
M='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT
M/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,
M63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S
M:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4]
M,T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-
M"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!S:7IE
M/3-$,2!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$
M8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS
M1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-
M"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4]
M,T0S(&YOF4],T0S
M(&YOF4]
M,T0S('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\+W1R
M/@T*/"]T86)L93X-"CPO9&EV/CQS7!E.B!T97AT+VAT;6P[(&-H87)S970](G5S
M+6%S8VEI(@T*#0H\:'1M;#X-"B`@/&AE860^#0H@("`@/$U%5$$@:'1T'0O:'1M;#L@8VAA
M7!E/3-$=&5X="]J879A"F4],T0R/CQU/DY/5$4@-2`F(W@R
M,#$T.PT*1$52259!5$E615,\+W4^/"]F;VYT/CPO6QE/3-$
M)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#$R"2!A;F0@9&\@;F]T('%U
M86QI9GD@9F]R(&AE9&=E(&%C8V]U;G1I;F#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X
M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R
M/CQB/D9O6QE
M/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#$R"2!E>'!O&EM:7IE('1H92!E8V]N
M;VUI8R!E9F9E8W1I=F5N97-S(&]F(&]U65A6QE/3-$)TU!
M4D=)3BU43U`Z(#$R"&-H86YG92!F;W)W87)D(&-O
M;G1R86-T2X\+V9O;G0^/"]P/@T*/'`@#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X)R!A;&EG;CTS1&IUF4],T0R/D-E
M2!I;B!E>&-H86YG92!R871E2!P;W-I=&EO
M;G,L(&%N9"!T;R!M86YA9V4@;W1H97(@9F]R96EG;@T*8W5R$$P.T%S(&]F($IU;F4F(WA!,#LS,"P@,C`Q,BP@=&AE('1O
M=&%L#0IN;W1I;VYA;"!A;6]U;G1S(&]F('1H97-E(&9O$$P.S,P+"`R,#$Q+"!T:&4@=&]T86P@;F]T:6]N86P@86UO=6YT
M&-H86YG92!C;VYT6QE/3-$)TU!
M4D=)3BU43U`Z(#$X"6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#$R"2!D97)I=F%T:79E$$P.T%S(&]F#0I*=6YE)B-X03`[,S`L
M(#(P,3(L('1H92!T;W1A;"!N;W1I;VYA;"!A;6]U;G1S(&]F(&1E2X\+V9O;G0^/"]P/@T*/'`@#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS
M1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/DEN=&5R97-T(%)A
M=&4\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#$R
M"&-H86YG92UT2X\+V9O;G0^/"]P/@T*/'`@#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X)R!A;&EG;CTS1&IUF4]
M,T0R/DEN(&%D9&ET:6]N+"!W92!U#(P,4,[5&\@0F4@06YN;W5N
M8V5D)B-X,C`Q1#L@9F]R=V%R9"!P=7)C:&%S92!C;VUM:71M96YT2!M;W)T9V%G92UB86-K960-"G-E8W5R:71I97,N)B-X03`[5&AE$$P.S,P+`T*,C`Q,B!A;F0@
M,C`Q,2P@=&AE('1O=&%L(&YO=&EO;F%L(&1E6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#$X#L@1D].5"U325I%.B`Q6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"3X-
M"CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"&5D+6EN8V]M90T*'!O6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#$X"6QE/3-$)TU!
M4D=)3BU43U`Z(#$R"2!E>'!O2!I;F1I
M8V5S+B!792!U2!O9B!C;VUM;V1I=&EE2P@86YD(&=R86EN+B!!$$P.S,P+"`R
M,#$R+"!T:&4@=&]T86P@;F]T:6]N86P@86UO=6YT2X@07,@;V8@2G5N
M928C>$$P.S,P+"`R,#$Q+"!T:&4@=&]T86P@;F]T:6]N86P@86UO=6YT2X\+V9O;G0^/"]P/@T*/'`@#L@
M34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,
M63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/D-R961I="U2:7-K+5)E;&%T960@0V]N
M=&EN9V5N=`T*1F5A='5R97,\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO6QE/3-$
M)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#$R"$$P.S,P+"`R,#$R+"!O=7(-"FQO;F6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#$X#L@1D].5"U325I%.B`Q6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#$R"#(P,40[*2X@5&AE(&9A:7(@=F%L=65S(&5X8VQU9&4@
M=&AE(&EM&ES=',@86YD(&9A:7(@=F%L=64-"F%D
M:G5S=&UE;G1S(')E;&%T960@=&\@;W5R(&]W;B!C"6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#!P>#L@34%21TE.
M+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/@T*/&9O;G0@"6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#!P>#L@34%2
M1TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,7!X)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/@T*/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT
M9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]L6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#!P>#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@
M,'!X)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/@T*/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#!P>#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@
M,7!X)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/@T*/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q
M/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N
M="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B
M;W1T;VT@8V]L6QE/3-$
M)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#!P>#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X)R!A;&EG;CTS
M1')I9VAT/@T*/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/CQB/E)A=&4\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO6QE/3-$
M)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#!P>#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,7!X)R!A;&EG;CTS
M1')I9VAT/@T*/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF
M(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]L6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z
M(#!P>#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/@T*/&9O
M;G0@6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z
M(#!P>#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,7!X)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/@T*/&9O
M;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^
M/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]L6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#!P>#L@34%21TE.
M+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/@T*/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#!P>#L@34%2
M1TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,7!X)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/@T*/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT
M9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]L6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#!P>#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@
M,'!X)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/@T*/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/CQB/D1EF4],T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E
M/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\+W1R/@T*/'1R/@T*/'1D/CPO=&0^#0H\
M=&0@8V]LF4],T0Q/CQB/DIU;F4F(WA!
M,#LS,"P@,C`Q,CPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T
M;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q
M/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N
M="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B
M;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S
M:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T
M;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE
M/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^
M/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$
M,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O
M;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF
M(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@
MF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!
M,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CPO='(^#0H\='(^#0H\=&0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!C
M;VQS6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE
M/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@
M8V]LF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$
M,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]L
MF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF
M(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!
M,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/"]TF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE
M/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^
M/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O
M;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V
M86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE
M/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^
M/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O
M;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V
M86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE
M/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^
M/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O
M;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM
M3$5&5#H@,V5M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG
M('-I>F4],T0R/E-H;W)T+71E6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.S$T/"]B/CPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@
MF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG
M('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B0\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$
M8F]T=&]M(&%L:6=N/3-$F4],T0R
M/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.R8C
M>$$P.S$P/"]B/CPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N
M;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS
M1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B0\+V(^/"]F;VYT
M/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&%L:6=N/3-$6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@
M,V5M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4]
M,T0R/D]T:&5R(&-UF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P
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M;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL
M93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.SPO
M8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R
M:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4]
M,T0R/CQB/C`\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M
M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T
M9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS
M1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.SPO8CX\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H
M=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R
M/CQB/C`\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO
M=W)AF4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-
M"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-
M"CPO='(^#0H\='(^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&-O;'-P86X],T0T
M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!S:7IE/3-$,2!N;W-H
M861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*
M/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/
M3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$
M,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T
M=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2
M.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!S:7IE/3-$,2!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^
M#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C
M9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!A;&EG;CTS
M1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O
M/CPO=&0^#0H\+W1R/@T*/'1R(&)G8V]L;W(],T0C0T-%149&/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1'1O6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-
M05)'24XM3$5&5#H@-65M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@
M05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/E1O=&%L/"]F;VYT/CPOF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS
M1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B0\+V(^/"]F;VYT
M/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&%L:6=N/3-$6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!
M34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B0\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\
M=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&%L:6=N/3-$6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/B8C
M>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T
M;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"F4],T0R/CQB/C,\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\
M=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C
M>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O
M;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/C,P,#PO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V
M86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T
M9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4]
M,T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\
M9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF
M(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@
MF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T
M9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4]
M,T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\
M9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF
M(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@
MF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T
M9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4]
M,T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\
M9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CPO='(^#0H\='(@
M8F=C;VQO6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-
M"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&
M3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O
M;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\
M9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB
M/C`\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)A
MF4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT
M9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CPO
M='(^#0H\='(^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&-O;'-P86X],T0T/@T*
M/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!S:7IE/3-$,2!N;W-H861E
M/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR
M('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2
M.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N
M;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M
M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C
M,#`P,#`P)R!S:7IE/3-$,2!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\
M=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F
M9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I
M9VAT('-I>F4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO
M=&0^#0H\+W1R/@T*/'1R(&)G8V]L;W(],T0C0T-%149&/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1'1O6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'
M24XM3$5&5#H@-65M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))
M04PG('-I>F4],T0R/E1O=&%L/"]F;VYT/CPOF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&
M3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B0\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO
M=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&%L:6=N/3-$F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V
M86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/C`\+V(^/"]F
M;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R
M/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/C`\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO
M=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/CQB/B8C
M>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T
M;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"F4],T0R/CQB/C`\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\
M=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C
M>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O
M;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/C`\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L
M:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO
M8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/C$X,SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!S:7IE/3-$,R!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S
M:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE
M/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU
M.34Y)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0S(&YOF4],T0S(&YOF4],T0S('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E
M/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT
M('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y
M)R!S:7IE/3-$,R!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L
M:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A
M;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I
M>F4],T0S(&YOF4]
M,T0S(&YOF4],T0S('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\
M+W1R/@T*/'1R(&)G8V]L;W(],T0C0T-%149&/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1'1O
M6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&
M5#H@-V5M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I
M>F4],T0R/E1O=&%L(&%S6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4
M+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B0\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^
M#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&%L:6=N/3-$F4]
M,T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI
M9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/C$P/"]B/CPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^
M/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@
M05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B0\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L
M:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&%L:6=N/3-$6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"6QE/3-$
M)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0S(&YOF4],T0S(&YOF4],T0S('=I9'1H
M/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$
M8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/
M3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!S:7IE/3-$,R!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO
M=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2
M.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!A;&EG
M;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0S(&YOF4],T0S(&YOF4],T0S('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D
M92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q
M/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH
M6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!S:7IE/3-$
M,R!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T
M=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE
M9G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P
M.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQS
MF4],T0Q/B8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQS6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$
M14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,65M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&
M3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/DYO;BUD97-I9VYA=&5D(&AE
M9&=E#0ID97)I=F%T:79EF4],T0Q/B8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S
M:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T
M;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT
M9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S
M:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T
M;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT
M9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S
M:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T
M;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CPO='(^#0H\='(^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$=&]P/@T*
M/'`@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T
M9#X-"CPO='(^#0H\='(@8F=C;VQO6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT
M9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S
M:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T
M;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT
M9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S
M:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T
M;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT
M9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S
M:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T
M;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$
M14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,V5M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&
M3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/D]T:&5R(&-U6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/B@Q-#PO8CX\+V9O;G0^
M/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^
M/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/C`\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@
M=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P
M.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@
M6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/C`\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N
M/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/C`\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T
M=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^
M/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R
M/CQB/C`\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO
M=W)AF4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-
M"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/B@Q
M-#PO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CPO='(^#0H\
M='(^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&-O;'-P86X],T0T/@T*/&AR('-T
M>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!S:7IE/3-$,2!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S
M:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE
M/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P
M,#`P)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E
M/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT
M('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P
M)R!S:7IE/3-$,2!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L
M:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A
M;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I
M>F4],T0Q(&YOF4]
M,T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\
M+W1R/@T*/'1R(&)G8V]L;W(],T0C0T-%149&/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1'1O
M6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&
M5#H@-V5M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I
M>F4],T0R/E1O=&%L(&QI86)I;&ET:65S/"]F;VYT/CPOF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL
M93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B0\+V(^/"]F
M;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&%L:6=N/3-$F4],T0R/CQB/BDF(WA!,#L\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@
M=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4
M+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B0\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^
M#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&%L:6=N/3-$F4]
M,T0R/CQB/BDF(WA!,#L\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$
M8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@
M05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B0\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L
M:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&%L:6=N/3-$F4],T0R/CQB/BDF
M(WA!,#L\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF
M;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I
M>F4],T0R/CQB/B0\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T
M=&]M(&%L:6=N/3-$F4],T0R/CQB/BDF(WA!,#L\+V(^
M/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4]
M,T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\
M9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB
M/B0\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&%L:6=N
M/3-$F4],T0Q/B8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S
M='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B0\+V(^
M/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&%L:6=N/3-$F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2
M.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!S:7IE/3-$,R!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^
M#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C
M9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!A;&EG;CTS
M1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0S(&YOF4],T0S(&YOF4],T0S('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O
M/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!S:7IE/3-$,R!N
M;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M
M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@
M6QE/3-$
M)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0S(&YOF4],T0S(&YOF4],T0S('=I9'1H
M/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\+W1R/@T*/'1R/@T*
M/'1D/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@8V]LF4],T0Q
M/CQB/BA);B!M:6QL:6]NF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q/CQB/D9O6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#!P>#L@34%21TE.
M+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/@T*/&9O;G0@&-H86YG93PO8CX\
M+V9O;G0^/"]P/@T*/'`@F4],T0Q/CQB/D-O;G1R86-TF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q/CQB/D5Q=6ET>3PO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]P/@T*
M/'`@F4],T0Q/CQB/D-O;G1R86-TF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q/CQB/DEN=&5R97-T/"]B/CPO9F]N=#X\+W`^#0H\"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/CQB/D-O;G1R86-TF4],T0Q/B8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q/CQB/D-R
M961I=#PO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]P/@T*/'`@F4],T0Q/CQB/D-O
M;G1R86-TF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q/CQB/D-O;6UO9&ET>3PO8CX\
M+V9O;G0^/"]P/@T*/'`@F4],T0Q/CQB/D-O;G1R86-TF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q/CQB/E1O=&%L/"]B/CPO9F]N=#X\+W`^#0H\
M"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q
M/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]T6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C
M,#`P,#`P)R!S:7IE/3-$,2!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\
M=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F
M9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"$$P
M.S,P+"`R,#$Q/"]B/CPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#LF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT
M9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V
M86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI
M9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]LF4]
M,T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\
M9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q
M/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N
M="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B
M;W1T;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q/B8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S
M:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T
M;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]TF4],T0Q
M/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;2!C;VQSF4]
M,T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C
M;VQSF4],T0Q
M/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQS
MF4],T0Q/B8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQS6QE/3-$)U1%
M6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,65M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL
M93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/DYO;BUD97-I9VYA
M=&5D(&AE9&=E#0ID97)I=F%T:79EF4]
M,T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\
M9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF
M(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@
MF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T
M9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4]
M,T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\
M9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF
M(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@
MF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T
M9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4]
M,T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\
M9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF
M(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CPO='(^#0H\='(^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$
M=&]P/@T*/'`@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T
M9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]TF4],T0R/CF4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/C`\+V9O
M;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG
M('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R
M/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI
M9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/C`\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL
M93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF
M;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N
M;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M
M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C
M,#`P,#`P)R!S:7IE/3-$,2!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\
M=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F
M9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I
M9VAT('-I>F4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO
M=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!S:7IE/3-$,2!N;W-H
M861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*
M/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/
M3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q(&YO6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C
M>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\
M9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^
M/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]TF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V
M86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE
M/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^
M/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O
M;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V
M86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE
M/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^
M/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O
M;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V
M86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE
M/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CPO='(^#0H\='(@8F=C;VQO6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF
M(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@
MF4],T0R
M/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI
M9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O
M;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S
M:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T
M;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-
M"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]TF4],T0R/C$R,SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^
M/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/C`\+V9O
M;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG
M('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R
M/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI
M9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/C$R,SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!S:7IE/3-$
M,2!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T
M=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE
M9G0@6QE
M/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0Q(&YO
MF4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q('=I
M9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N
M/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$
M)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!S:7IE/3-$,2!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O
M/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/
M3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!A
M;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S
M:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\+W1R/@T*/'1R(&)G8V]L;W(],T0C0T-%149&/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1'1O6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M
M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@-65M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!
M34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/E1O=&%L/"]F;VYT/CPOF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S
M='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B0\+V9O;G0^
M/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N
M="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/C$R.3PO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R
M87`^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4]
M,T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]TF4],T0Q/B8C
M>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-
M"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!S:7IE
M/3-$,R!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$
M8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS
M1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0S
M(&YOF4],T0S(&YO
MF4],T0S
M('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L
M:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE
M/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!S:7IE/3-$,R!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D
M92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$
M)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y
M)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0S(&YOF4],T0S(&YOF4],T0S('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$
M;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\+W1R/@T*/'1R(&)G8V]L;W(],T0C0T-%149&
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1'1O6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4
M.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@-V5M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4
M+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/E1O=&%L(&%S6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!
M34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B0\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI
M9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4
M+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/C$W.3PO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL
M93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B0\+V9O;G0^/"]T
M9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S
M='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/C0\+V9O;G0^
M/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I
M>F4],T0R/B0\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI
M9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG
M('-I>F4],T0R/C0Q-CPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q
M/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N
M="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#LF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI
M9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^#0H\:'(@F4],T0S('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E
M/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT
M('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y
M)R!S:7IE/3-$,R!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L
M:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A
M;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I
M>F4],T0S(&YOF4]
M,T0S(&YOF4],T0S('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\
M=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!S:7IE/3-$,R!N;W-H861E/3-$
M;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T
M>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C
M-3DU.34Y)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0S(&YOF4],T0S(&YOF4]
M,T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\
M9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q
M/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N
M="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B
M;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S
M:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T
M;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE
M/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^
M/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$
M,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O
M;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF
M(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CPO='(^#0H\='(^#0H\=&0^/"]T9#X-"CQT
M9"!C;VQS6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF
M(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@
MF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T
M9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4]
M,T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\
M9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF
M(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@
MF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T
M9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4]
M,T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\
M9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF
M(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@
MF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]TF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,
M63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B0\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!
M34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B@Y,3PO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL
M93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B0\+V9O;G0^/"]T
M9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S
M='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B@Q,CPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^
M/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4]
M,T0R/B0\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX]
M,T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I
M>F4],T0R/B@Y/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO
M=W)AF4],T0R/BDF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/BDF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T
M9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S
M:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T
M;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/BDF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CPO='(^#0H\='(@
M8F=C;VQO6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S
M:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T
M;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT
M9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S
M:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T
M;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT
M9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S
M:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T
M;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'
M24XM3$5&5#H@,V5M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))
M04PG('-I>F4],T0R/D]T:&5R(&-U6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,
M63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B0\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!
M34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/C`\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI
M9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S
M='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B0\+V9O;G0^
M/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N
M="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/C`\+V9O
M;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG
M('-I>F4],T0R/B0\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@
M86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))
M04PG('-I>F4],T0R/C`\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T
M;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&
M3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B0\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT
M9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS
M1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/C`\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-
M"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R
M/B0\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R
M:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4]
M,T0R/B@Q,C@\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W
M6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]TF4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H
M861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF
M;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P
M,#`P)R!S:7IE/3-$,2!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@
M=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F
M)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT
M('-I>F4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^
M#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!S:7IE/3-$,2!N;W-H861E
M/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR
M('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R
M/B0\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R
M:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4]
M,T0R/B@Q,CPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R
M87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@
M05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B0\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B
M;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,
M63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.R@Y
M/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4]
M,T0R/BDF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^
M/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"F4],T0R/BDF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V
M86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF
M(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@
MF4]
M,T0R/BDF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CPO='(^#0H\='(^#0H\=&0@=F%L
M:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#LF
M(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^#0H\:'(@
MF4],T0S('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^
M#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!S:7IE/3-$,R!N;W-H861E
M/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR
M('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2
M.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0S(&YOF4],T0S(&YOF4],T0S('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N
M;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M
M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C
M-3DU.34Y)R!S:7IE/3-$,R!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\
M=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F
M9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I
M9VAT('-I>F4],T0S(&YOF4],T0S(&YO3X-"CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"#(P,3,[#0I);G9E$$P.S8F(WA!,#LF(W@R,#$S.R!&86ER(%9A;'5E#0I-96%S
M=7)E;65N=',N/"]F;VYT/CPO6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z
M(#$X#L@1D].5"U325I%.B`Q6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z
M(#$R"F5D(&EN(&]T:&5R#0II;F-O;64@*&5X6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU4
M3U`Z(#!P>#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X.R!&3TY4+5-)6D4Z(#$R6QE/3-$)T)/4D1%4BU#3TQ,05!3
M13H@8V]L;&%P6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI
M9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4]
M,T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\
M9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q
M/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N
M="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CPO='(^#0H\='(^#0H\
M=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&-O;'-P86X],T0Q,CX-"CQHF4],T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$
M,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\+W1R/@T*/'1R/@T*/'1D
M/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@8V]LF4],T0Q/CQB/EEE87(@16YD960@2G5N928C>$$P.S,P
M+#PO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@
M6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"&-H86YG92!#;VYTF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;2!C;VQS6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4
M.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,65M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4
M+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/D1EF4],T0Q
M/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R
M/CQB/B0\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&%L
M:6=N/3-$6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O
M;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]T6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.R8C
M>$$P.S@U/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)A
MF4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-
M"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.R8C>$$P
M.S8P/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]TF4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H
M861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF
M;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P
M,#`P)R!S:7IE/3-$,2!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@
M=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F
M)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4]
M,T0R/CQB/C(\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M
M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T
M9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S
M:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T
M;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]TF4]
M,T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y
M)R!S:7IE/3-$,R!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L
M:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A
M;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I
M>F4],T0S(&YOF4]
M,T0S(&YOF4],T0S('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\
M+W1R/@T*/"]T86)L93X-"CQP('-T>6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#$X"3X-"CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"2!C87-H(&9L;W"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$
M,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]L
MF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF
M(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/"]T6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!S:7IE/3-$
M,2!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T
M=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE
M9G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/CQB/C(P,3(\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N
M/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O
M;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q/CQB/C(P,3$\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N
M/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O
M;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q/CQB/C(P,3`\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N
M/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/"]TF4],T0Q
M/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N
M="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B
M;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S
M:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T
M;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE
M/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CPO='(^#0H\='(^#0H\=&0^/"]T
M9#X-"CQT9"!C;VQS6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S
M='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B0\+V(^
M/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&%L:6=N/3-$F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C
M>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O
M;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P
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M;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/B@R-SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^
M/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N
M="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B
M;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"F4],T0Q/CQB/D%M;W5N="!%>&-L
M=61E9"!FF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQS6QE
M/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,65M)SX\9F]N
M="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/DQO'!E;G-E*3PO9F]N=#X\
M+W`^#0H\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$
M,3XF(WA!,#LF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T
M;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O
M;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG
M('-I>F4],T0R/B0\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@
M86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))
M04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B@Q-S0\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B
M;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]T
M#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X
M)R!A;&EG;CTS1&IUF4],T0R/E=E(&5S=&EM871E('1H870@)#$S-PT*;6EL
M;&EO;B!O9B!N970@9&5R:79A=&EV92!G86EN$$P.S,P+`T*,C`Q,B!W:6QL(&)E(')E8VQA65A6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z
M(#$R"2!R96-O9VYI>F5D(&EN(&]T:&5R(&EN8V]M92`H
M97AP96YS92DN(%1H97-E#0IA;6]U;G1S(&%R92!S:&]W;B!I;B!T:&4@=&%B
M;&4@8F5L;W2!U;G)E86QI>F5D
M#0IG86EN6EN9R!A=F%I;&%B;&4M
M9F]R+7-A;&4-"G-E8W5R:71I97,N/"]F;VYT/CPO6QE/3-$
M)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#!P>#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X.R!&3TY4+5-)
M6D4Z(#$R6QE/3-$)T)/4D1%
M4BU#3TQ,05!313H@8V]L;&%P6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-
M"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT
M9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CPO='(^
M#0H\='(^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&-O;'-P86X],T0Q,CX-"CQH
MF4],T0Q
M('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\+W1R/@T*
M/'1R/@T*/'1D/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@8V]LF4],T0Q/CQB/EEE87(@16YD960@2G5N
M928C>$$P.S,P+#PO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T
M;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"&-H86YG92!C;VYT6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R
M/CQB/B@Q,3D\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M
M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/CQB/BDF(WA!,#L\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\
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M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@
MF4]
M,T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\
M9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B0\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H
M=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R
M/C$P-CPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`]
M,T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/BDF(WA!,#L\
M+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I
M>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R
M/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG
M;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4
M+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$
M14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,65M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&
M3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/DEN=&5R97-T+7)A=&4@8V]N
M=')A8W1S/"]F;VYT/CPOF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@
M05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT
M9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS
M1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/CDS/"]B/CPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^
M/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@
M05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q
M/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N
M="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I
M9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]TF4],T0Q
M/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R
M/CQB/B8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T
M;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@
M05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B@W/"]B/CPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@F4]
M,T0R/C(T/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)A
MF4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-
M"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/C(R/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\
M=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]TF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I
M>F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!
M34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B@Q,C$\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^
M#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/CQB/BDF(WA!
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M3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O
M;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/B@Q/"]F;VYT
M/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/BDF
M(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CPO='(^#0H\='(^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$
M8F]T=&]M(&-O;'-P86X],T0T/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P
M,#`P)R!S:7IE/3-$,2!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@
M=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F
M)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT
M('-I>F4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^
M#0H\+W1R/@T*/'1R(&)G8V]L;W(],T0C0T-%149&/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1'1O6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM
M3$5&5#H@,F5M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG
M('-I>F4],T0R/E1O=&%L/"]F;VYT/CPOF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4
M+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B0\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^
M#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&%L:6=N/3-$6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@
M05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B0\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B
M;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,
M63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.S$S-3PO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@
MF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#LF(WA!,#L\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^#0H\:'(@F4]
M,T0S('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@
M=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!S:7IE/3-$,R!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S
M:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE
M/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU
M.34Y)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0S(&YOF4],T0S(&YO'1087)T
M7S(Y83)F.39E7S0P9F-?-&,R85]B,3EE7S4U,C@S-V(P,31E,@T*0V]N=&5N
M="U,;V-A=&EO;CH@9FEL93HO+R]#.B\R.6$R9CDV95\T,&9C7S1C,F%?8C$Y
M95\U-3(X,S=B,#$T93(O5V]R:W-H965T'0O:F%V87-C3X-"B`@("`\=&%B;&4@8VQA6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"#L@34%2
M1TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X)R!A;&EG;CTS1&IUF4],T0R/E1H92!F;VQL;W=I
M;F6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#!P>#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X.R!&
M3TY4+5-)6D4Z(#$R6QE/3-$
M)T)/4D1%4BU#3TQ,05!313H@8V]L;&%P6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"$$P.S,\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^
M#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$
M,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]L
M6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU4
M3U`Z(#!P>#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/@T*
M/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/CQB
M/D9A:7(\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z
M(#!P>#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,7!X)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/@T*/&9O
M;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQS6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"$$P.SQS=7`@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQS6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D
M92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\+W1R/@T*/'1R/@T*/'1D/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@8V]LF4],T0Q/CQB/DIU;F4F(WA!,#LS,"P@,C`Q
M,CPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@
MF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$
M,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O
M;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF
M(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@
MF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!
M,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O
M;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^
M/"]T9#X-"CPO='(^#0H\='(^#0H\=&0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!C;VQS6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!
M,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O
M;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^
M/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T
M9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]T6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/C@R,#PO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI
M9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS
M1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B0\+V(^/"]F;VYT
M/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&%L:6=N/3-$F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4
M+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B0\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^
M#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&%L:6=N/3-$F4]
M,T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T
M9#X-"CPO='(^#0H\='(^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$=&]P/@T*/'`@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,
M63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-
M"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL
M93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/CDV/"]B/CPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R
M87`^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,
M63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-
M"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL
M93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/C`\+V(^/"]F
M;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R
M/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R
M/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&
M3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O
M;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\
M9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB
M/C6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&
M3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O
M;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\
M9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB
M/C6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&
M3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O
M;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\
M9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB
M/C6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"0T*F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO
M8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P
M.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@
M6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C
M>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CPO='(^#0H\='(@8F=C;VQO6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,
M63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-
M"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL
M93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/C,Q/"]B/CPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R
M87`^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,
M63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-
M"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL
M93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/C$L-S`S/"]B
M/CPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N
M;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!
M34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T
M9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S
M='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/C`\+V(^
M/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4]
M,T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI
M9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V
M86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!
M34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T
M9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S
M='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/C$L.#DR
M/"]B/CPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`]
M,T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4
M+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^
M/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N
M="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/C`\
M+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V
M86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT
M9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"F4],T0Q/B8C
M>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\
M9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB
M/B8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@
M86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))
M04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/C`\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N
M/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO
M8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R
M/CQB/B8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T
M;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@
M05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/C6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM
M3$5&5#H@,65M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG
M('-I>F4],T0R/DUU;FEC:7!A;"!S96-UF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P
M.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N
M="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B8C
M>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI
M9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG
M('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/C`\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$
M8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O
M;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q
M/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N
M="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B8C
M>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI
M9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG
M('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/C`\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$
M8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O
M;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q
M/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N
M="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B8C
M>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI
M9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG
M('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/C`\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$
M8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O
M;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M
M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,65M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,
M63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/D-O;6UO;B!A;F0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG
M('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI
M9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4
M+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/CF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))
M04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V
M86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&
M3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/C@W-SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^
M/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))
M04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V
M86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&
M3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/C@L-#(Q/"]B/CPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^
M/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@
M05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT
M9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS
M1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/C`\+V(^/"]F;VYT
M/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/CQB
M/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B
M;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R
M/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CPO='(^#0H\='(^
M#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$=&]P/@T*/'`@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO
M8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R
M/CQB/B8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T
M;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@
M05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/C`\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L
M:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO
M8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R
M/CQB/B8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T
M;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@
M05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B@Q-#$\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@
M=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/CQB/BDF(WA!,#L\+V(^
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M9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO
M=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!S:7IE/3-$,2!N;W-H
M861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*
M/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/
M3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$
M,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T
M=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2
M.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!S:7IE/3-$,2!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^
M#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C
M9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.S4P+#8Y-SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T
M9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!
M34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B0\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\
M=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&%L:6=N/3-$6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q
M/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N
M="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B0\
M+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&%L:6=N/3-$
M6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4]
M,T0S(&YOF4],T0S
M(&YOF4]
M,T0S('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@
M=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!S:7IE/3-$,R!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S
M:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE
M/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU
M.34Y)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0S(&YOF4],T0S(&YOF4],T0S('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E
M/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT
M('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y
M)R!S:7IE/3-$,R!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L
M:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A
M;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4]
M,T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;2!C;VQSF4]
M,T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C
M;VQSF4],T0Q
M/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQS
MF4],T0Q/B8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQS6QE/3-$
M)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,65M)SX\9F]N="!S
M='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/D1E6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R
M/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/C$T-3PO8CX\+V9O;G0^
M/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4]
M,T0R/CQB/B0\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M
M(&%L:6=N/3-$6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^
M/"]T9#X-"CPO='(^#0H\='(^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&-O;'-P
M86X],T0R-#X-"CQHF4],T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO
M=&0^#0H\+W1R/@T*/'1R/@T*/'1D/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@8V]LF4],T0Q/CQB/BA);B!M:6QL:6]NF4],T0Q/B8C
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M=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0Q/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P
M.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@
M6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"$$P.S,\+V(^/"]F
M;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0Q
M/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#!P>#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@
M,'!X)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4]
M,T0Q/CQB/B8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]P/@T*/'`@6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/CQB/D9A:7(\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO6QE/3-$
M)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#!P>#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,7!X)R!A;&EG;CTS
M1')I9VAT/@T*/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#!P
M>#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!
M34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0Q/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O
M;G0^/"]P/@T*/'`@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"6QE/3-$
M)U!/4TE424]..B!R96QA=&EV93L@0D]45$]-.B`P+CAE>#L@5D525$E#04PM
M04Q)1TXZ(&)AF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL
M93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0Q/CQB/B8C>$$P.SQB
M6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CPO='(^#0H\='(^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M
M(&-O;'-P86X],T0R-#X-"CQHF4],T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D
M92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\+W1R/@T*/'1R/@T*/'1D/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@8V]LF4],T0Q/CQB/DIU;F4F(WA!,#LS,"P@,C`Q
M,3PO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@
MF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$
M,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O
M;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF
M(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@
MF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!
M,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O
M;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^
M/"]T9#X-"CPO='(^#0H\='(^#0H\=&0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!C;VQS6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!
M,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O
M;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^
M/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T
M9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]T6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S
M='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B0\+V9O;G0^
M/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N
M="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/C`\+V9O
M;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!
M34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B0\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI
M9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4
M+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/C`\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V
M86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I
M>F4],T0R/B0\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI
M9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG
M('-I>F4],T0R/C$L-S4R/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T
M=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$
M,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O
M;G0@F4]
M,T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V
M86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/C`\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))
M04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF
M(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@
MF4],T0R
M/C`\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@
M05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$
M,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O
M;G0@F4]
M,T0R/C`\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,
M63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]TF4],T0R/C`\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL
M93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF
M;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4]
M,T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V
M86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/C`\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI
M9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S
M='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT
M/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT
M9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/C`\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V
M86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q
M/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N
M="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I
M9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]T0T*F4],T0R/C(S+#4Y,3PO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R
M87`^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q
M/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N
M="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I
M9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R
M/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG
M;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M
M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,65M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS
M1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/D9OF4],T0R/C,P,SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4
M+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&
M3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T
M>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$
M)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,65M)SX\9F]N="!S
M='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/DUOF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&
M3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T
M>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R
M/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI
M9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/C(L-#(X/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L
M:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF
M(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@
MF4],T0R
M/C`\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@
M05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M
M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,65M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!
M34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/D-O6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!
M,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/C$P
M+#8P,#PO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`]
M,T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4
M+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$
M)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,65M)SX\9F]N="!S
M='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/DUU;FEC:7!A
M;"!S96-UF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!
M34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4
M+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&
M3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T
M>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM
M3$5&5#H@,65M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG
M('-I>F4],T0R/D-O;6UO;B!A;F0@F4],T0Q
M/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R
M/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG
M;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&
M3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T
M>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I
M>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!
M,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/CDL
M.#@Q/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]TF4],T0R/C@\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W
M6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!
M34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S
M:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T
M;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/C(P/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M
M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^
M/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/C0Q-CPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O
M;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/BDF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT
M9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E
M/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT
M('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P
M)R!S:7IE/3-$,2!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L
M:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A
M;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I
M>F4],T0Q(&YOF4]
M,T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\
M=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!S:7IE/3-$,2!N;W-H861E/3-$
M;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T
M>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C
M,#`P,#`P)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q(&YO6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4]
M,T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\
M9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B0\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H
M=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R
M/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.S(U+#6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,
M63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B0\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!
M34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.S8Q+#(V,CPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^
M/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"F4],T0Q/B8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S
M='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B0\+V9O;G0^
M/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N
M="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P
M.R8C>$$P.S8Q+#`U.#PO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q
M/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N
M="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#LF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI
M9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^#0H\:'(@F4],T0S('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E
M/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT
M('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y
M)R!S:7IE/3-$,R!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L
M:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A
M;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I
M>F4],T0S(&YOF4]
M,T0S(&YOF4],T0S('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\
M=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!S:7IE/3-$,R!N;W-H861E/3-$
M;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T
M>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C
M-3DU.34Y)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0S(&YOF4],T0S(&YOF4]
M,T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\
M9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q
M/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N
M="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B
M;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S
M:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T
M;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE
M/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^
M/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$
M,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O
M;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF
M(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CPO='(^#0H\='(^#0H\=&0^/"]T9#X-"CQT
M9"!C;VQS6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P
M.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N
M="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B0\+V9O
M;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\
M9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/C$P
M.3PO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N
M;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!
M,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/B8C
M>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\
M9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&
M3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B0\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT
M9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS
M1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B@R,#,\+V9O;G0^/"]T
M9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE
M/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^
M/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q(&YO#L@1D].5"U3
M25I%.B`V6QE/3-$)T)/4D1%
M4BU#3TQ,05!313H@8V]L;&%P6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))
M04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQI/E1H97-E(&%M;W5N=',@&ES=',@86YD(&9A:7(@=F%L
M=64@861J=7-T;65N=',@#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X.R!&3TY4+5-)6D4Z(#%P
M>""#L@1D].5"U325I%
M.B`Q,G!X)SX-"B8C>$$P.SPOF4],T0Q/B8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S
M:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T
M;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]TF4],T0Q(&YO6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"$$P.S,P+#PO8CX\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&
M5#H@,65M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I
M>F4],T0R/DYE="!F86ER('9A;'5E(&]F(&%S6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I
M>F4],T0R/B0\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI
M9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG
M('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.S8Q+#`U.#PO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/C$L-C0X/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^
M#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]TF4]
M,T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI
M9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&
M5#H@,65M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I
M>F4],T0R/D]T:&5R(&EN=F5S=&UE;G1S(&UE87-UF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C
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M1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q
M/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N
M="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I
M9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]TF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!
M34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T
M9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S
M='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B@Q.#4\
M+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/CQB/BDF(WA!,#L\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N
M/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,
M63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/BDF(WA!,#L\+V9O
M;G0^/"]T9#X-"CPO='(^#0H\='(^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$=&]P/@T*/'`@
M6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/C$\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI
M9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO
M=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!S:7IE/3-$,2!N;W-H
M861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*
M/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG
M('-I>F4],T0R/B0\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@
M86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))
M04PG('-I>F4],T0R/C8S+#8S-SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#LF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT
M9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^#0H\:'(@F4],T0S('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N
M;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M
M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C
M-3DU.34Y)R!S:7IE/3-$,R!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\
M=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F
M9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X)SX\9F]N
M="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/D-H
M86YG97,@:6X@1FEN86YC:6%L($EN6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#$R"2!O9B!T:&5S92!I;G-T"F4],T0Q/CQB/BA)
M;B!M:6QL:6]NF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q/CQB/D-OF4],T0Q/CQB/DYO=&5S)B-X03`[86YD/"]B
M/CPO9F]N=#X\+W`^#0H\"6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V
M86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]L6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#!P>#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X
M)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/@T*/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#!P>#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X
M)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/@T*/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#!P>#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X)R!A
M;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/@T*/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#!P>#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,7!X
M)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/@T*/&9O;G0@F4]
M,T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C
M;VQSF4],T0Q
M/CQB/D1E6QE/3-$)TU!
M4D=)3BU43U`Z(#!P>#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,7!X)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I
M9VAT/@T*/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q/CQB/E1O=&%L/"]B/CPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T
M9#X-"CPO='(^#0H\='(^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&-O;'-P86X]
M,T0Q-CX-"CQHF4],T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^
M#0H\+W1R/@T*/'1R/@T*/'1D/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@8V]L6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;2!C;VQS6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.S4X/"]B/CPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@
MF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG
M('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B0\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$
M8F]T=&]M(&%L:6=N/3-$F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&
M3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B0\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO
M=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&%L:6=N/3-$6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P
M.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CPO='(^#0H\='(^#0H\=&0@=F%L
M:6=N/3-$=&]P/@T*/'`@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF
M(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@
MF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T
M9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4]
M,T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\
M9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF
M(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@
MF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T
M9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M
M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,F5M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!
M34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/DEN8VQU9&5D(&EN(&]T:&5R(&EN8V]M
M90T**&5XF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!
M34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T
M9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S
M='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/C`\+V(^
M/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4]
M,T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI
M9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B
M;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB
M/BDF(WA!,#L\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\+W1R/@T*/'1R/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1'1O6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-
M05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,F5M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@
M05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/DEN8VQU9&5D(&EN(&]T:&5R(&-O;7!R96AE;G-I
M=F4-"FEN8V]M93PO9F]N=#X\+W`^#0H\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#LF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-
M"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4]
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M1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/C`\+V(^/"]F;VYT
M/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/CQB
M/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B
M;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB
M/BDF(WA!,#L\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\+W1R/@T*/'1R(&)G8V]L;W(]
M,T0C0T-%149&/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1'1O6QE/3-$)U1%
M6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,65M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL
M93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/D-O;G9E6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I
M>F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!
M34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B@Q-3PO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-
M"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"$$P
M.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@
M6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO
M=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!S:7IE/3-$,2!N;W-H
M861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*
M/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/
M3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS
M1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B0\+V(^/"]F;VYT
M/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&%L:6=N/3-$F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4
M+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B0\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^
M#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&%L:6=N/3-$F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,
M63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B0\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@
M=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&%L:6=N/3-$F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))
M04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B0\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N
M/3-$8F]T=&]M(&%L:6=N/3-$6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!S:7IE/3-$,R!N
M;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M
M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@
M6QE/3-$
M)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0S(&YOF4],T0S(&YOF4],T0S('=I9'1H
M/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$
M8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/
M3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!S:7IE/3-$,R!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO
M=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2
M.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"$$P
M.S,P+"`R,#$R/"]F;VYT/CPOF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,
M63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B0\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@
M=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&%L:6=N/3-$F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))
M04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B0\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N
M/3-$8F]T=&]M(&%L:6=N/3-$F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I
M>F4],T0R/CQB/B0\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T
M=&]M(&%L:6=N/3-$F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R
M/CQB/B0\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&%L
M:6=N/3-$F4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q/CQB/BA);B!M:6QL:6]NF4],T0Q
M/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;2!C;VQS6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"$$P.V%N9#QBF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$
M,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]L
MF4],T0Q/CQB/D-O;6UO;CQBF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V
M86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q/CQB/E1O
M=&%L/"]B/CPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N
M="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CPO='(^#0H\='(^#0H\
M=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&-O;'-P86X],T0Q-CX-"CQHF4],T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$
M,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\+W1R/@T*/'1R/@T*/'1D
M/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@8V]L6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQS6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R
M/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI
M9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$
M,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O
M;G0@F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE
M/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^
M/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$
M)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,65M)SX\9F]N="!S
M='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/E1O=&%L(')E
M86QI>F5D(&%N9"!U;G)E86QI>F5D(&=A:6YS#0HH;&]SF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T
M9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4]
M,T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\
M9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF
M(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@
MF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T
M9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4]
M,T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\
M9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&
M5#H@,F5M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I
M>F4],T0R/DEN8VQU9&5D(&EN(&]T:&5R(&EN8V]M90T**&5XF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I
M>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS
M1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT
M('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!
M34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/BDF(WA!,#L\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-
M"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/C`\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT
M9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4]
M,T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\
M9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS
M1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/BDF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CPO='(^#0H\='(@
M8F=C;VQO6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B@X-3PO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N
M;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,
M63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-
M"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/B@X-3PO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O
M/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!S:7IE/3-$,2!N
M;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M
M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@
M6QE/3-$
M)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q('=I9'1H
M/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\+W1R/@T*/'1R(&)G
M8V]L;W(],T0C0T-%149&/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1'1O6QE
M/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,65M)SX\9F]N
M="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/D)A;&%N
M8V4L(&5N9"!O9B!P97)I;V0\+V9O;G0^/"]P/@T*/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI
M9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R
M/B0\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R
M:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4]
M,T0R/C4\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,
M63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B0\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!
M34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/C(P/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L
M:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF
M(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@
MF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!
M,#LF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^#0H\
M:'(@F4],T0S('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO
M=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!S:7IE/3-$,R!N;W-H
M861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*
M/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/
M3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0S(&YOF4],T0S(&YOF4],T0S('=I9'1H/3-$
M,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\+W1R/@T*/'1R(&)G8V]L
M;W(],T0C0T-%149&/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1'1O6QE/3-$
M)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,65M)SX\9F]N="!S
M='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/D-H86YG92!I
M;B!U;G)E86QI>F5D(&=A:6YS(&EN8VQU9&5D#0II;B!O=&AEF4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$
M,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O
M;G0@F4]
M,T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V
M86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q
M(&YO6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE
M/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#$R"2!M871E0T*:6UP86ER;65N=',@;VX@9FEN86YC:6%L(&%S3X-"CPO:'1M;#X-"@T*+2TM+2TM/5].97AT4&%R=%\R.6$R9CDV95\T,&9C
M7S1C,F%?8C$Y95\U-3(X,S=B,#$T93(-"D-O;G1E;G0M3&]C871I;VXZ(&9I
M;&4Z+R\O0SHO,CEA,F8Y-F5?-#!F8U\T8S)A7V(Q.65?-34R.#,W8C`Q-&4R
M+U=O'0O
M:'1M;#L@8VAA7!E(&-O;G1E;G0]
M,T0G=&5X="]H=&UL.R!C:&%R'0^/&1I=CX-"CQP('-T>6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)
M3BU43U`Z(#!P>#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X)R!A;&EG;CTS1&-E;G1E
M6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"#(P,30[#0I)3E9%3E1/4DE%4SPO=3X\+V9O;G0^
M/"]P/@T*/'`@#L@34%21TE.+4)/
M5%1/33H@,'!X)R!A;&EG;CTS1&IUF4],T0R/E1H92!C;VUP;VYE;G1S(&]F
M#0II;G9E;G1O6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#!P>#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X
M.R!&3TY4+5-)6D4Z(#$R6QE
M/3-$)T)/4D1%4BU#3TQ,05!313H@8V]L;&%PF4]
M,T0Q/CQB/BA);B!M:6QL:6]NF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/"]TF4],T0Q(&YO
M6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"$$P.S,P+#PO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-
M"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE
M/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,65M)SX\9F]N
M="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/E)A=R!M
M871E6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/C(Q,#PO8CX\+V9O;G0^
M/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE
M/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,65M)SX\9F]N
M="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/E=O6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/C4V/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\
M=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]TF4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P
M.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@
M6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!S:7IE/3-$,2!N;W-H
M861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*
M/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/
M3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q(&YO6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V
M86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I
M>F4],T0S(&YOF4]
M,T0S(&YOF4],T0S('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\
M+W1R/@T*/"]T86)L93X-"CPO9&EV/CQS7!E.B!T97AT+VAT;6P[(&-H87)S970]
M(G5S+6%S8VEI(@T*#0H\:'1M;#X-"B`@/&AE860^#0H@("`@/$U%5$$@:'1T
M'0O:'1M;#L@
M8VAA7!E/3-$=&5X="]J879A2!!;F0@17%U:7!M96YT/&)R/CPO2!!;F0@17%U:7!M96YT/"]T
M9#X-"B`@("`@("`@/'1D(&-L87-S/3-$=&5X=#X\9&EV/@T*/'`@#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X)R!A;&EG
M;CTS1&-E;G1E6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"#(P,30[#0I04D]015)462!!3D0@
M15%525!-14Y4/"]U/CPO9F]N=#X\+W`^#0H\3X-"CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"#L@1D].5"U325I%.B`Q
M,G!X)SX-"B8C>$$P.SPO6QE
M/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!S:7IE/3-$,2!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D
M92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$
M)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@F4],T0Q/CQB
M/DIU;F4F(WA!,#LS,"P\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$
M8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQS6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQS6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P
M.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N
M="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B0\
M+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&%L:6=N/3-$
MF4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^
M/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R
M/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]T6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/C8L-3(Q/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L
M:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]TF4]
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M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I
M>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE
M/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,65M)SX\9F]N
M="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/D-O;7!U
M=&5R(&5Q=6EP;65N="!A;F0-"G-O9G1W87)E/"]F;VYT/CPOF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S
M='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P
M.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX]
M,T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I
M>F4],T0R/CQB/CF4],T0Q
M/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N
M="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I
M9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,65M
M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R
M/D9UF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P
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M='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S
M='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT
M/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q('=I9'1H
M/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$
M8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/
M3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!S:7IE/3-$,2!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO
M=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2
M.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL
M93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF
M;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/"]T6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V
M86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]TF4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O
M/CPO=&0^#0H\+W1R/@T*/'1R(&)G8V]L;W(],T0C0T-%149&/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1'1O6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-
M05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,F5M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@
M05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/E1O=&%L+"!N970\+V9O;G0^/"]P/@T*/"]T9#X-
M"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R
M/CQB/C@L,C8Y/"]B/CPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL
M93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B0\+V9O;G0^/"]T
M9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S
M='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/C@L,38R/"]F
M;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R
M/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]TF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P
M.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH
M6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!S:7IE/3-$
M,R!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T
M=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE
M9G0@6QE
M/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0S(&YO
MF4],T0S(&YO3X-"CQF;VYT('-T
M>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"'!E;G-E('=A2X\+V9O;G0^/"]P/@T*/"]D
M:78^/'-P86X^/"]S3X-"CPO:'1M;#X-"@T*+2TM+2TM/5].97AT4&%R=%\R
M.6$R9CDV95\T,&9C7S1C,F%?8C$Y95\U-3(X,S=B,#$T93(-"D-O;G1E;G0M
M3&]C871I;VXZ(&9I;&4Z+R\O0SHO,CEA,F8Y-F5?-#!F8U\T8S)A7V(Q.65?
M-34R.#,W8C`Q-&4R+U=O'0O:'1M;#L@8VAA7!E(&-O;G1E;G0],T0G=&5X="]H=&UL.R!C:&%R#L@
M;6%R9VEN+6)O='1O;3H@,'!X.R3H@05))04P[)R!S
M:7IE/3-$,CX\8CY3:WEP93PO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]P/@T*/'`@#L@;6%R9VEN+6)O='1O;3H@,'!X.R6QE/3-$)V9O;G0M9F%M:6QY.B!!4DE!3#LG
M('-I>F4],T0R/D]N($]C=&]B97(F(S$V,#LQ,RP@,C`Q,2P@=V4@86-Q=6ER
M960@86QL(&]F('1H92!I7!E)B,X
M,C(Q.RDL(&$@;&5A9&EN9R!G;&]B86P@&5M8F]U2!I;B!C87-H+B!4:&4@;6%J;W(@8VQA'!E8W1A=&EO;B!O9B!E>'1E;F1I;F&ES=&EN9R!P
M;W)T9F]L:6\@;V8@#LG/B8C,38P.SPO6QE/3-$)V9O;G0M9F%M:6QY.B!!4DE!3#LG
M('-I>F4],T0Q/CQB/BA);B!M:6QL:6]NF4],T0Q/B8C,38P.R8C,38P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D(&-O;'-P86X],T0R('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(S$V,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI
M9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C,38P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D(&-O;'-P86X],T0R(&%L:6=N/3-$6QE/3-$)V9O;G0M9F%M:6QY.B!!4DE!
M3#LG('-I>F4],T0Q/CQB/E=E:6=H=&5D/&)R("\^($%V97)A9V4F(S$V,#M,
M:69E/"]B/CPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N
M="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(S$V,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CPO='(^#0H\='(^#0H\
M=&0@8V]LF4],T0Q("\^
M/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)V-O;&]R
M.B`C9F9F9F9F.RF4],T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$,"`O/CPO=&0^#0H\+W1R/@T*/'1R/@T*/'1D/B8C
M,38P.SPO=&0^#0H\=&0@8V]L6QE
M/3-$)V9O;G0M9F%M:6QY.B!!4DE!3#LG('-I>F4],T0R/DUA6QE/3-$
M)V9O;G0M9F%M:6QY.B!!4DE!3#LG('-I>F4],T0R/B0\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-
M"CQT9"!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL
M93TS1"=F;VYT+69A;6EL>3H@05))04P[)R!S:7IE/3-$,CXF(S$V,#LF(S$V
M,#LQ+#(T.3PO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R
M87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C,38P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=F;VYT+69A
M;6EL>3H@05))04P[)R!S:7IE/3-$,CXF(S$V,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT
M9"!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS
M1"=F;VYT+69A;6EL>3H@05))04P[)R!S:7IE/3-$,CXQ-28C,38P.WEE87)S
M/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)A3H@05))04P[)R!S:7IE
M/3-$,CXF(S$V,#LF(S$V,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CPO='(^#0H\='(^#0H\
M=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$=&]P/@T*/'`@3H@05))04P[)R!S:7IE/3-$,CY496-H;F]L;V=Y+6)AF4]
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M;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)V9O;G0M9F%M
M:6QY.B!!4DE!3#LG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C,38P.R8C,38P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(S$V,#L\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)W1E>'0M:6YD96YT.B`M,65M.R!M87)G:6XM;&5F=#H@,65M.R3H@05))04P[)R!S:7IE/3-$,CXF
M(S$V,#LF(S$V,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^
M/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)V9O;G0M9F%M:6QY.B!!4DE!3#LG
M('-I>F4],T0R/B8C,38P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D(&%L:6=N/3-$6QE/3-$)V9O;G0M9F%M:6QY
M.B!!4DE!3#LG('-I>F4],T0R/C4@>65A6QE/3-$
M)V9O;G0M9F%M:6QY.B!!4DE!3#LG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C,38P.R8C,38P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]T6QE/3-$)V9O;G0M9F%M:6QY.B!!4DE!3#LG('-I>F4]
M,T0R/D-O;G1R86-T+6)AF4],T0Q/B8C,38P.R8C,38P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=F
M;VYT+69A;6EL>3H@05))04P[)R!S:7IE/3-$,CXF(S$V,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T
M9#X-"CQT9"!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S
M='EL93TS1"=F;VYT+69A;6EL>3H@05))04P[)R!S:7IE/3-$,CXQ,#PO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^
M/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C,38P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=F;VYT+69A;6EL>3H@05))04P[
M)R!S:7IE/3-$,CXF(S$V,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!A;&EG;CTS1')I
M9VAT('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=F;VYT+69A;6EL
M>3H@05))04P[)R!S:7IE/3-$,CXT('EE87)S/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@
M=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)A3H@05))04P[)R!S:7IE/3-$,CXF(S$V,#LF(S$V,#L\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CPO='(^#0H\='(^#0H\=&0@8V]LF4],T0Q("\^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT^/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)V-O;&]R.B`C9F9F9F9F.RF4],T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$,"`O
M/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C
M,38P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S
M:7IE/3-$,3XF(S$V,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T
M;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C,38P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/"]T6QE/3-$)V9O;G0M9F%M:6QY.B!!4DE!
M3#LG('-I>F4],T0R/E1O=&%L/"]F;VYT/CPOF4],T0Q/B8C,38P.R8C,38P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=F
M;VYT+69A;6EL>3H@05))04P[)R!S:7IE/3-$,CXD/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\
M=&0@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H="!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)V9O;G0M9F%M:6QY.B!!4DE!3#LG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C
M,38P.R8C,38P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\
M9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(S$V,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@65A6QE/3-$
M)V9O;G0M9F%M:6QY.B!!4DE!3#LG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C,38P.R8C,38P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]TF4],T0Q/B8C,38P.R8C,38P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\:'(@F4],T0S("\^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&AR('-T>6QE
M/3-$)V-O;&]R.B`C-3DU.34Y.RF4],T0Q/B8C,38P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(S$V
M,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)V9O;G0M#LG/CQF;VYT('-T
M>6QE/3-$)V9O;G0M9F%M:6QY.B!!4DE!3#LG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/D]T:&5R
M/"]B/CPO9F]N=#X\+W`^#0H\65A2!A;&P@;V8@=VAI8V@@
M=V%S('!A:60@:6X@8V%S:"X@1'5R:6YG(&9I'10
M87)T7S(Y83)F.39E7S0P9F-?-&,R85]B,3EE7S4U,C@S-V(P,31E,@T*0V]N
M=&5N="U,;V-A=&EO;CH@9FEL93HO+R]#.B\R.6$R9CDV95\T,&9C7S1C,F%?
M8C$Y95\U-3(X,S=B,#$T93(O5V]R:W-H965T'0O:F%V87-C3X-"B`@("`\=&%B;&4@8VQA#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X)R!A
M;&EG;CTS1&-E;G1E6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#$R"6EN9PT*86UO=6YT(&]F(&=O;V1W:6QL(&)Y('-E9VUE
M;G0@=V5R92!A#L@1D].5"U325I%
M.B`Q,G!X)SX-"B8C>$$P.SPOF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$
M,3XF(WA!,#LF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T
M;VT@8V]L6QE/3-$)TU!
M4D=)3BU43U`Z(#!P>#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I
M9VAT/@T*/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#!P>#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X)R!A
M;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/@T*/&9O;G0@$$P.TIU;F4F(WA!,#LS,"P\+V(^/"]F
M;VYT/CPO6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#!P>#L@34%21TE.
M+4)/5%1/33H@,7!X)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/@T*/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT
M9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q/CQB
M/D]T:&5R/"]B/CPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\
M9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"$$P.V%S/"]B/CPO
M9F]N=#X\+W`^#0H\"6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3""6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQS6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q/CQB/D)A;&%N
M8V4F(WA!,#MAF4],T0Q
M/CQB/F]F)B-X03`[2G5N928C>$$P.S,P+#PO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]P/@T*/'`@
MF4],T0Q/CQB/C(P,3(\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPOF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]T6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!S
M:7IE/3-$,2!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N
M/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG
M;CTS1&QE9G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T
M9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-
M"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT
M9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V
M86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI
M9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]LF4]
M,T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\
M9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q
M/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]T6QE/3-$)U1%
M6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,65M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL
M93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/E=I;F1O=W,F(WA!
M,#LF86UP.R!7:6YD;W=S($QI=F4-"D1I=FES:6]N/"]F;VYT/CPOF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P
M.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N
M="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B0\+V9O
M;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\
M9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CF4]
M,T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V
M86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4
M+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B0\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^
M#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&%L:6=N/3-$F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,
M63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B0\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@
M=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&%L:6=N/3-$F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))
M04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B0\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N
M/3-$8F]T=&]M(&%L:6=N/3-$6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P
M.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N
M="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I
M9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!
M34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R
M/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG
M;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"$$P.SPO
M8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P
M.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CPO='(^#0H\='(@8F=C;VQO6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@
M05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4]
M,T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\
M9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS
M1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE
M/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^
M/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/C8L,SF4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^
M/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/BDF(WA!,#L\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@
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M,SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4
M+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I
M>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG
M('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C
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M1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q
M/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N
M="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B8C
M>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI
M9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG
M('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B@Q,3F4],T0R/CQB/BDF(WA!,#L\+V(^/"]F;VYT
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M1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M
M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,65M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,
M63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/D5N=&5R=&%I;FUE;G0@86YD($1E=FEC97,-
M"D1I=FES:6]N/"]F;VYT/CPOF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,
M63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE
M/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^
M/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/C,P/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO
M=W)AF4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T
M9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/B@Q.3PO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@
MF4]
M,T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\
M9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS
M1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T
M9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI
M9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CPO='(^
M#0H\='(^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&-O;'-P86X],T0T/@T*/&AR
M('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!S:7IE/3-$,2!N;W-H861E/3-$
M;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T
M>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C
M,#`P,#`P)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H
M861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF
M;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P
M,#`P)R!S:7IE/3-$,2!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@
M=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F
M)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT
M('-I>F4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^
M#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!S:7IE/3-$,2!N;W-H861E
M/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR
M('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C
M>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\
M9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^
M/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@
M05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B0\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L
M:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&%L:6=N/3-$6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE
M/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0S(&YO
MF4],T0S(&YOF4],T0S('=I
M9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N
M/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$
M)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!S:7IE/3-$,R!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O
M/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/
M3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!A
M;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0S(&YOF4],T0S(&YOF4],T0S('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S
M:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4]
M,T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-
M"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!S:7IE
M/3-$,R!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$
M8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS
M1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0S
M(&YOF4],T0S(&YO
M3X-"CQF;VYT
M('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"3X-
M"CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"2!T#(P,40[(&EN('1H92!A8F]V92!T
M86)L92X@06QS;R!I;F-L=61E9`T*=VET:&EN("8C>#(P,4,[;W1H97(F(W@R
M,#%$.R!AF%T
M:6]N65A6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#$X""28C>$$P.S$L(#(P,3(@870@=&AE
M(')E6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#$R"2P@65A0T*8V]M2!I
M;B!F;W)E8V%S=&EN9PT*=&AE)B-X03`[9G5T=7)E('!E#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X.R!&3TY4+5-)6D4Z(#%P>""#(P,40[*2!W87,@2P@=')A9&4@;F%M97,L(&%N9`T*6QE
M/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#$R"7!E.B!T97AT+VAT;6P[(&-H87)S970]
M(G5S+6%S8VEI(@T*#0H\:'1M;#X-"B`@/&AE860^#0H@("`@/$U%5$$@:'1T
M'0O:'1M;#L@
M8VAA7!E/3-$=&5X="]J879A#(P,30[#0I)3E1!3D=)0DQ%($%34T544SPO=3X\
M+V9O;G0^/"]P/@T*/'`@#L@34%2
M1TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X)R!A;&EG;CTS1&IUF4],T0R/E1H92!C;VUP;VYE
M;G1S(&]F#0II;G1A;F=I8FQE(&%S6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#!P>#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X
M.R!&3TY4+5-)6D4Z(#$R6QE
M/3-$)T)/4D1%4BU#3TQ,05!313H@8V]L;&%P6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4]
M,T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C
M;VQS6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQS6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;2!C;VQS6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF
M(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q/CQB/D%C8W5M=6QA=&5D/&)R("\^#0I!;6]R
M=&EZ871I;VX\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M
M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-
M"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q
M/CQB/DYE="8C>$$P.T-AF4],T0Q/B8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]T6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P
M,#`P)R!S:7IE/3-$,2!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@
M=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F
M)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT
M9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V
M86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q/CQB/C(P
M,3(\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT
M('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V
M86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI
M9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]LF4]
M,T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\
M9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q/CQB/C(P,3$\+V(^
M/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4]
M,T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]T6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q
M/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R
M/CQB/B0\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&%L
M:6=N/3-$6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^
M/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))
M04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B0\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T
M;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@
M05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B@Q+#@S,3PO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS
M1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B0\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-
M"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL
M93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/C4R-3PO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O
M;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O
M;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!
M34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/BDF(WA!,#L\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
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MF4],T0R/CQB/BDF(WA!,#L\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L
M:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!
M34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T
M9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S
M='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/C$X,#PO
M8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/C$L,#8X/"]F;VYT/CPO
M=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/B8C>$$P
M.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N
M="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B
M;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/B@Y-C8\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B
M;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^
M/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/C$P,CPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O
M;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O
M;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^
M/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S
M='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT
M/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT
M9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/B@R,C0\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT
M9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF
M(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@
MF4],T0R
M/C$P,CPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`]
M,T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@6QE
M/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!S:7IE/3-$,2!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D
M92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$
M)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P
M)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$
M;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I
M>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4]
M,T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q
M(&YOF4]
M,T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\+W1R
M/@T*/'1R(&)G8V]L;W(],T0C0T-%149&/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1'1O6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@
M,F5M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4]
M,T0R/E1O=&%L/"]F;VYT/CPOF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,
M63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B0\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@
M=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&%L:6=N/3-$6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO
M8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P
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M;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,
M63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B0\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!
M34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#LF(WA!
M,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^#0H\:'(@F4],T0S('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\
M=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!S:7IE/3-$,R!N;W-H861E/3-$
M;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T
M>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C
M-3DU.34Y)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0S(&YOF4],T0S(&YOF4],T0S('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H
M861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF
M;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU
M.34Y)R!S:7IE/3-$,R!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@
M=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F
M)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT
M('-I>F4],T0S(&YOF4],T0S(&YO#L@1D].5"U325I%.B`V6QE/3-$)T)/4D1%4BU#3TQ,05!3
M13H@8V]L;&%P6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4]
M,T0R/CQI/E1E8VAN;VQO9WDM8F%S960@:6YT86YG:6)L92!A3X-"CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"2!O9B!T:&4@6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU4
M3U`Z(#$R"#L@1D].5"U325I%.B`Q,G!X)SX-"B8C>$$P
M.SPO6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE
M/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@
M8V]L6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)
M3BU43U`Z(#!P>#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT
M/@T*/&9O;G0@F4]
M,T0Q/CQB/D%V97)A9V4F(WA!,#M,:69E/"]B/CPO9F]N=#X\+W`^#0H\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q
M/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N
M="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B
M;W1T;VT@8V]L6QE/3-$
M)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#!P>#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X)R!A;&EG;CTS
M1')I9VAT/@T*/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/CQB/D%V97)A9V4F(WA!,#M,:69E/"]B/CPO9F]N=#X\+W`^
M#0H\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF
M(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CPO='(^#0H\='(^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$
M8F]T=&]M(&-O;'-P86X],T0Q-CX-"CQHF4],T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$
M;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\+W1R/@T*/'1R/@T*/'1D/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@
M8V]L6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q
M/CQB/C(P,3(\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M
M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-
M"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#LF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T
M9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]LF4]
M,T0Q/CQB/C(P,3$\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T
M=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T
M9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]T6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4
M.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,65M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4
M+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/E1E8VAN;VQO9WDM8F%S960\+V9O
M;G0^/"]P/@T*/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/C$L-30X/"]B/CPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4]
M,T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B
M;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,
M63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/C6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q
M/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N
M="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I
M9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"$$P.WEE87)S/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T
M=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/"]T6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"$$P
M.WEE87)S/"]B/CPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N
M;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S
M='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT
M/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]TF4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P
M.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@
M6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"$$P.WEE87)S/"]B/CPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O
M;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,
M63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT
M9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,65M)SX\
M9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/D-U
M6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4
M+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^
M/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N
M="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/C4F
M(WA!,#MY96%R6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"F4]
M,T0R/C(\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,
M63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"$$P.WEE87)S/"]F;VYT
M/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/B8C
M>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]TF4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!
M,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!A;&EG;CTS
M1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O
M;G0^/"]T9#X-"CPO='(^#0H\='(@8F=C;VQO6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB
M/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.S,L,#(V/"]B/CPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@F4]
M,T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\
M9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB
M/B8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@
M86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))
M04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/C$P)B-X03`[>65AF4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P
M.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^
M/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S
M:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T
M;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/C,F(WA!,#MY96%RF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#LF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-
M"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^#0H\:'(@F4],T0S('=I9'1H/3-$
M,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T
M=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T
M9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4]
M,T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\
M9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#LF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V
M86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^#0H\:'(@F4],T0S('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H
M861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF
M;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT
M9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]T3X-"CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"'!E;G-E('=AF%T:6]N(&]F(&-AF5D('-O9G1W87)E('=A$$P.SPO6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)
M3BU43U`Z(#!P>#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X)R!A;&EG;CTS1&IUF4]
M,T0R/E1H92!F;VQL;W=I;F'!E;G-E(')E;&%T960@=&\-"FEN
M=&%N9VEB;&4@87-S971S(&AE;&0@870@2G5N928C>$$P.S,P+"`R,#$R.CPO
M9F]N=#X\+W`^#0H\#L@1D].5"U325I%.B`Q,G!X)SX-"B8C>$$P.SPO6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!
M,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CPO='(^#0H\='(^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T
M=&]M(&-O;'-P86X],T0T/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P
M)R!S:7IE/3-$,2!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L
M:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A
M;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/"]T6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-
M05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,65M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@
M05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/C(P,3,\+V9O;G0^/"]P/@T*/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V
M86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P
M.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]TF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4
M+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P
M.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]TF4],T0Q/B8C
M>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\
M9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS
M1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]TF4],T0Q/B8C
M>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\
M9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS
M1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]TF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@
M05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]TF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!
M34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$
M;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\+W1R/@T*/'1R(&)G8V]L;W(],T0C0T-%149&
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1'1O6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4
M.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,F5M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4
M+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/E1O=&%L/"]F;VYT/CPOF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P
M.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N
M="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B0\+V9O
M;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\
M9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C
M>$$P.R8C>$$P.S,L,3F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/"]TF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2
M.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!S:7IE/3-$,R!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^
M#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C
M9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@3X-"CPO:'1M;#X-"@T*+2TM+2TM/5].97AT4&%R=%\R.6$R
M9CDV95\T,&9C7S1C,F%?8C$Y95\U-3(X,S=B,#$T93(-"D-O;G1E;G0M3&]C
M871I;VXZ(&9I;&4Z+R\O0SHO,CEA,F8Y-F5?-#!F8U\T8S)A7V(Q.65?-34R
M.#,W8C`Q-&4R+U=O'0O:'1M;#L@8VAA7!E
M(&-O;G1E;G0],T0G=&5X="]H=&UL.R!C:&%R#(P,30[#0I$14)4/"]U/CPO9F]N=#X\+W`^#0H\3X-"CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"$$P.S,P+"`R,#$R+`T*
M=&AE('1O=&%L(&-A3X-"CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3""F4],T0Q/CQB/D1U92!$871E/"]B/CPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#LF(WA!,#L\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q/CQB/D9A8V4@5F%L=64\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\
M=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF
M(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]L6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z
M(#!P>#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/@T*/&9O
M;G0@"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"F4],T0Q/B8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q/CQB/D5F
M9F5C=&EV93QB6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#!P>#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,7!X)R!A
M;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/@T*/&9O;G0@"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU4
M3U`Z(#!P>#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,7!X)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/@T*
M/&9O;G0@"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)
M3BU43U`Z(#!P>#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,7!X)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT
M/@T*/&9O;G0@"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)
M3BU43U`Z(#!P>#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,7!X)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT
M/@T*/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!
M,#LF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]L
M6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU4
M3U`Z(#!P>#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/@T*
M/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q
M/CQB/E!A>0T*1&%T93PO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]P/@T*/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI
M9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q(&YO
MF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQS6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V
M86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI
M9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4]
M,T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\
M9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI
M9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V
M86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CPO
M='(^#0H\='(^#0H\=&0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!C;VQSF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF
M(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@
MF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!
M,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O
M;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!
M,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF
M(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CPO='(^#0H\='(^#0H\=&0^/"]T9#X-"CQT
M9"!C;VQSF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4
M+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B0\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V
M86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&
M3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/C$L,#`P/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^
M#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S
M:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T
M;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/C`N.#6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))
M04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"$$P.S(W/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\
M=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE
M/3-$,3XF(WA!,#LF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B
M;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/E-E$$P.S$U/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\
M=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE
M/3-$,3XF(WA!,#LF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B
M;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/E-E$$P.S(W/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\
M=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]TF4],T0R/C(L,#`P
M/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4]
M,T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V
M86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/C(N.34P)3PO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4
M+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C
M>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\
M9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#LF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V
M86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/DIU;F4@,3PO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/"]TF4],T0Q
M/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R
M/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG
M;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&
M3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T
M>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R
M/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI
M9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/C$N-SDU)3PO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@
M05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P
M.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]T28C>$$P.S@L(#(P,38\+V9O;G0^/"]P/@T*
M/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!
M34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P
M.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N
M="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B
M;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/C(N-C0R)3PO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"28C>$$P.S$\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@
M;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS
M1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT
M('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#LF(WA!,#L\+V9O
M;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/D%U9W5S="`Q
M/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4]
M,T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#LF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-
M"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/D%U9W5S="`X/"]F;VYT/CPO
M=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/B8C>$$P
M.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]TF4],T0R/C$L,#`P/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L
M:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF
M(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@
MF4],T0R
M/C0N,C`P)3PO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R
M87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4]
M,T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A
M;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#LF
M(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@
MF4],T0R
M/DIU;F4@,3PO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R
M87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C
M>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]TF4],T0R/C$L,#`P/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M
M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^
M/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/C,N,#`P)3PO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^
M/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S
M='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT
M/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&
M3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T
M>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))
M04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]T28C>$$P.S@L(#(P,C$\
M+V9O;G0^/"]P/@T*/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@
M6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL
M93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF
M;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT
M9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/C0N,#@R)3PO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"2`Q/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$
M8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#LF
M(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@
MF4],T0R
M/D9E8G)U87)Y(#@\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@
M;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS
M1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT
M('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!
M34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'
M24XM3$5&5#H@,65M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))
M04PG('-I>F4],T0R/DIU;F4F(WA!,#LQ+"`R,#,Y/"]F;VYT/CPOF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P
M.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N
M="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I
M9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-
M"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/C4N,C`P)3PO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@
M6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS
M1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT
M('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4]
M,T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#LF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-
M"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/DIU;F4@,3PO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@
M6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/"]TF4],T0R/C$L,#`P/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M
M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^
M/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/C0N-3`P)3PO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^
M/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S
M='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT
M/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&
M3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T
M>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))
M04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]T28C>$$P.S@L(#(P-#$\+V9O;G0^/"]P/@T*/"]T9#X-
M"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R
M/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG
M;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O
M;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/D9E8G)U87)Y
M(#$\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!
M34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!S:7IE/3-$
M,2!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T
M=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE
M9G0@F4]
M,T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\
M9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF
M(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@
MF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T
M9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4]
M,T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\
M9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE
M/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^
M/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!
M,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#LF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^
M/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CPO='(^#0H\
M='(@8F=C;VQO6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4]
M,T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\
M9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF
M(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@
MF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T
M9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4]
M,T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\
M9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE
M/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^
M/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#LF(WA!
M,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-
M"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI
M9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4]
M,T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\
M9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q
M/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N
M="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B
M;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S
M:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T
M;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE
M/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^
M/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S
M:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T
M;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q
M/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N
M="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B
M;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4]
M,T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\
M9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CPO='(^#0H\='(^
M#0H\=&0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!C;VQS6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q
M/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N
M="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I
M9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T
M9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4]
M,T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\
M9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE
M/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^
M/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!
M,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#LF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^
M/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CPO='(^#0H\
M='(^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&-O;'-P86X],T0T/@T*/&AR('-T
M>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!S:7IE/3-$,2!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S
M:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE
M/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF
M(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@
MF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T
M9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4]
M,T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\
M9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF
M(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@
MF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O
M;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-
M"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q
M/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N
M="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#LF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI
M9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$
M,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CPO='(^#0H\='(@8F=C;VQO6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI
M9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$
M,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O
M;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^
M/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI
M9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S
M:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T
M;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#LF
M(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@
MF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T
M9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V
M86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU
M.34Y)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0S(&YOF4],T0S(&YOF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$
M,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O
M;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^
M/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI
M9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$
M,3XF(WA!,#LF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T
M;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T
M9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4]
M,T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V
M86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]T3X-"CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"$$P.S,P+"`R,#$R#0IA;F0@,C`Q,2P@
M=&AE(&%G9W)E9V%T92!U;F%M;W)T:7IE9"!D:7-C;W5N="!F;W(@;W5R(&QO
M;F6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#$X"#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@
M,'!X)R!A;&EG;CTS1&IUF4],T0R/E1H92!.;W1E2!W:71H(&]U
M$$P.SPO6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#!P>#L@34%2
M1TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@
M05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/D-O;G9E6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#$R"F5D+B!)
M;FET:6%L;'DL(&5A8V@@)#$L,#`P('!R:6YC:7!A;"!A;6]U;G0@;V8@;F]T
M97,-"G=A2!F;W(@9&EV:61E;F1S(&EN(&5X8V5S$$P.S,P+"`R
M,#$R+"!T:&4@;F5T(&-AF5D
M(&1I6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#$R"$$P.S$U+`T*,C`Q
M,RP@=&AE(&YO=&5S('=I;&P@8F4@8V]N=F5R=&EB;&4L(&]N;'D@:6X@8V5R
M=&%I;B!C:7)C=6US=&%N8V5S+`T*:6YT;R!C87-H(&%N9"P@:68@87!P;&EC
M86)L92P@8V%S:"P@#(P,3D[0T*=&EM92X@57!O
M;B!C;VYV97)S:6]N+"!W92!W:6QL('!A>2!C87-H('5P('1O('1H92!A9V=R
M96=A=&4-"G!R:6YC:7!A;"!A;6]U;G0@;V8@=&AE(&YO=&5S(&%N9"!P87D@
M;W(@9&5L:79E6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#$R"2!S971T;&5D(&EN(&-A
M2!A8V-O=6YT(&9O
M#(P,3D[(&5Q=6ET>2!F;W(@)#4X(&UI;&QI;VX@=VET:"!T:&4-
M"G!O3X-"CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"#(P,3D[(&5Q=6ET
M>2X\+V9O;G0^/"]P/@T*/'`@#L@
M34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,
M63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/D1E8G0@4V5R=FEC93PO8CX\+V9O;G0^
M/"]P/@T*/'`@#L@34%21TE.+4)/
M5%1/33H@,'!X)R!A;&EG;CTS1&IUF4],T0R/DUA='5R:71I97,@;V8@;W5R
M#0IL;VYG+71E"F4],T0Q/CQB/BA);B!M:6QL:6]NF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P
M.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQS
MF4],T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO
M=&0^#0H\+W1R/@T*/'1R/@T*/'1D/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@8V]L6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"$$P.S,P+#PO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V
M86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CPO
M='(^#0H\='(^#0H\=&0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!C;VQSF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!
M34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B0\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI
M9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4
M+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/C$L,C4P/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\
M=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]TF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,
M63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4
M.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,65M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4
M+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/C(P,34\+V9O;G0^/"]P/@T*/"]T
M9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]TF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S
M='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT
M/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,65M)SX\
M9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/C(P
M,36QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/"]TF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@
M05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D
M92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\+W1R/@T*/'1R(&)G8V]L;W(],T0C0T-%149&/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1'1O6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M
M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,F5M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,
M63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/E1O=&%L/"]F;VYT/CPOF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL
M93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B0\+V9O;G0^/"]T
M9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S
M='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C
M>$$P.S$R+#`P,#PO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N
M;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S
M:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#LF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT^#0H\:'(@F4],T0S('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$
M;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\+W1R/@T*/"]T86)L93X-"CQP('-T>6QE/3-$
M)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#$R"2X\+V9O;G0^/"]P/@T*/"]D:78^/'-P86X^/"]S3X-
M"CPO:'1M;#X-"@T*+2TM+2TM/5].97AT4&%R=%\R.6$R9CDV95\T,&9C7S1C
M,F%?8C$Y95\U-3(X,S=B,#$T93(-"D-O;G1E;G0M3&]C871I;VXZ(&9I;&4Z
M+R\O0SHO,CEA,F8Y-F5?-#!F8U\T8S)A7V(Q.65?-34R.#,W8C`Q-&4R+U=O
M'0O:'1M
M;#L@8VAA7!E(&-O;G1E;G0],T0G
M=&5X="]H=&UL.R!C:&%R&5S/"]T9#X-"B`@("`@
M("`@/'1D(&-L87-S/3-$=&5X=#X\9&EV/@T*/'`@#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X)R!A;&EG;CTS1&-E;G1E
M6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"3X-"CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#!P
M>#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X.R!&3TY4+5-)6D4Z(#$R6QE/3-$)T)/4D1%4BU#3TQ,05!313H@8V]L
M;&%PF4],T0Q/CQB/BA);B!M:6QL:6]NF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/"]T6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!S:7IE/3-$
M,2!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T
M=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE
M9G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/CQB/C(P,3(\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N
M/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O
M;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q/CQB/C(P,3$\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N
M/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O
M;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q/CQB/C(P,3`\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N
M/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/"]T&5S/"]B/CPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\
M9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#LF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V
M86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI
M9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]LF4]
M,T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\
M9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q
M/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]T6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.S(L,C,U/"]B/CPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R
M87`^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,
M63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B0\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!
M34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.S,L,3`X/"]F;VYT
M/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/B8C
M>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\
M9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL
M93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF
M;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4]
M,T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V
M86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/C,U-SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/C$L-C`R/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M
M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^
M/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/C$L-S`Q/"]F;VYT
M/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/B8C
M>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]TF4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S
M:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4]
M,T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-
M"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!S:7IE
M/3-$,2!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$
M8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS
M1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4]
M,T0R/C0L.3$Y/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO
M=W)AF4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T
M9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/C8L-#F4],T0R/B8C>$$P
M.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]TF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T
M9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-
M"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CPO
M='(^#0H\='(^#0H\=&0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!C;VQS6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL
M93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF
M;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"F4],T0R/BDF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T
M9#X-"CPO='(^#0H\='(^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&-O;'-P86X]
M,T0T/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!S:7IE/3-$,2!N
M;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M
M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@
M6QE/3-$
M)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q('=I9'1H
M/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\+W1R/@T*/'1R(&)G
M8V]L;W(],T0C0T-%149&/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1'1O6QE
M/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,V5M)SX\9F]N
M="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/E!R;W9I
M&5S/"]F;VYT/CPOF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS
M1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B0\+V(^/"]F;VYT
M/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&%L:6=N/3-$6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!A
M;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0S(&YOF4],T0S(&YOF4],T0S('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S
M:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4]
M,T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-
M"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!S:7IE
M/3-$,R!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$
M8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS
M1&QE9G0@#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X)R!A;&EG;CTS1&IUF4],T0R
M/E4N4RX@86YD(&EN=&5R;F%T:6]N86P-"F-O;7!O;F5N=',@;V8@:6YC;VUE
M(&)E9F]R92!I;F-O;64@=&%X97,@=V5R92!A"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQS6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQS6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQS6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,65M)SX\
M9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/E4N
M4RX\+V9O;G0^/"]P/@T*/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O
M;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"F4],T0R/CQB/C$L-C`P/"]B/CPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@
MF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG
M('-I>F4],T0R/B0\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@
M86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))
M04PG('-I>F4],T0R/C@L.#8R/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$
M8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4
M+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C
M>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]TF4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S
M:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4]
M,T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-
M"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!S:7IE
M/3-$,2!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$
M8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS
M1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.S(R+#(V-SPO8CX\+V9O
M;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I
M>F4],T0R/B0\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI
M9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG
M('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.S(U+#`Q,SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#LF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^
M/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^#0H\:'(@F4],T0S('=I
M9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N
M/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$
M)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!S:7IE/3-$,R!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O
M/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/
M3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!A
M;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0S(&YOF4],T0S(&YO3X-"CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3""6QE/3-$)T-/
M3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!S:7IE/3-$,2!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO
M=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2
M.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"F4],T0Q/CQB/C(P,3(\+V(^/"]F
M;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q
M/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N
M="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B
M;W1T;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q/CQB/C(P,3$\+V(^/"]F
M;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q
M/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N
M="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B
M;W1T;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q/CQB/C(P,3`\+V(^/"]F
M;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q
M/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]T2!R871E/"]F;VYT/CPOF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,
M63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-
M"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL
M93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/C,U+C`E/"]B
M/CPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N
M;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!
M34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4]
M,T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A
M;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$
M)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,65M)SX\9F]N="!S
M='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/D5F9F5C="!O
M9CH\+V9O;G0^/"]P/@T*/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O
M;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT
M9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S
M:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T
M;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CPO='(^#0H\='(@8F=C;VQO6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"F4],T0R/B@Q-2XV*24\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))
M04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL
M93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF
M;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))
M04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-
M05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,F5M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@
M05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/DDN4BY3+B!S971T;&5M96YT/"]F;VYT/CPOF4],T0Q/B8C
M>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\
M9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB
M/B8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@
M86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))
M04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/C`E/"]B/CPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@F4]
M,T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\
M9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS
M1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^
M/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/C`E/"]F;VYT/CPO
M=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/B8C>$$P
M.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]TF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I
M>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!
M,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/C(N
M,24\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$
M,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T
M=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2
M.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!S:7IE/3-$,2!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^
M#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C
M9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!A;&EG;CTS
M1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q(&YO6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/C$W+C4E/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$
M8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/C(U+C`E
M/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4]
M,T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]TF4],T0Q/B8C
M>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-
M"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!S:7IE
M/3-$,R!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$
M8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS
M1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0S
M(&YOF4],T0S(&YO
MF4],T0S
M('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\+W1R/@T*
M/"]T86)L93X-"CQP('-T>6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#$R"2!R871E(&9R;VT@9F]R96EG
M;B!E87)N:6YG&5S+"!D;VUE0T*$$P
M.SPO6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#$R"#L@1D].5"U3
M25I%.B`Q,G!X)SX-"B8C>$$P.SPOF4],T0Q
M/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N
M="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B
M;W1T;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q/B8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]TF4],T0Q(&YO6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"$$P.S,P+#PO
M8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/CQB/D1E9F5RF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T
M9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]T6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"'!E;G-E/"]F;VYT/CPOF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!
M34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B0\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\
M=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&%L:6=N/3-$F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P
M.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^
M/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM
M3$5&5#H@,65M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG
M('-I>F4],T0R/D]T:&5R(&5X6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q
M/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N
M="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I
M9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,65M
M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R
M/E5N96%R;F5D(')E=F5N=64\+V9O;G0^/"]P/@T*/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI
M9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&
M3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T
M>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C
M>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]TF4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO
M8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@
M,65M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4]
M,T0R/DQOF4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T
M9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/C8Y/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M
M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]T
MF4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q('=I9'1H
M/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\+W1R/@T*/'1R(&)G
M8V]L;W(],T0C0T-%149&/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1'1O6QE
M/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,F5M)SX\9F]N
M="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/D1E9F5R
MF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS
M1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B0\+V(^/"]F;VYT
M/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&%L:6=N/3-$6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"F4],T0Q
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M=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/CQB/BDF(WA!,#L\+V(^
M/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4]
M,T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\
M9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS
M1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!S:7IE/3-$,2!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S
M:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE
M/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P
M,#`P)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG
M('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B0\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$
M8F]T=&]M(&%L:6=N/3-$6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!S:7IE/3-$,2!N;W-H
M861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*
M/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/
M3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q(&YO6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3""!,:6%B:6QI=&EEF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O
M;G0^/"]T9#X-"CPO='(^#0H\='(^#0H\=&0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!C;VQS6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,65M)SX\
M9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/DEN
M=&5R;F%T:6]N86P@96%R;FEN9W,\+V9O;G0^/"]P/@T*/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V
M86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/B@Q
M+#`W,CPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W
M6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V
M86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/BDF(WA!,#L\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CPO='(^#0H\='(^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$=&]P/@T*
M/'`@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4]
M,T0R/B@Y,#0\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W
M6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]T6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T
M9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4]
M,T0R/BDF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CPO='(^#0H\='(^#0H\=&0@=F%L
M:6=N/3-$=&]P/@T*/'`@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/C`\+V9O;G0^/"]T
M9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$
M;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I
M>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"`T*;&EA8FEL
M:71I97,\+V9O;G0^/"]P/@T*/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^
M/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B@R+#0S-3PO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO
M=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!S:7IE/3-$,2!N;W-H
M861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*
M/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"F4]
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MF4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]TF4]
M,T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y
M)R!S:7IE/3-$,R!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L
M:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A
M;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I
M>F4],T0S(&YOF4]
M,T0S(&YO6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P
M.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQS
MF4],T0Q/B8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQS6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^
M/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M
M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,65M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,
M63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/DQO;FF4],T0R/CQB/BDF(WA!,#L\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@
M=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4
M+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/BDF
M(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CPO='(^#0H\='(^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$
M8F]T=&]M(&-O;'-P86X],T0T/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P
M,#`P)R!S:7IE/3-$,2!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@
M=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F
M)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT
M('-I>F4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q(&YO`T*87-S
M971S/"]F;VYT/CPOF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))
M04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B0\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N
M/3-$8F]T=&]M(&%L:6=N/3-$F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P
M.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^
M/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y
M)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0S(&YOF4],T0S(&YOF4],T0S('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$
M;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\+W1R/@T*/"]T86)L93X-"CQP('-T>6QE/3-$
M)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#$R"7!E('1H870@;6%Y(&YO="!B92!R96%L:7IE9"X\+V9O
M;G0^/"]P/@T*/'`@#L@34%21TE.
M+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X)R!A;&EG;CTS1&IUF4],T0R/D1E9F5R6EN9R!A;6]U;G1S
M(&]F(&%S"!B87-E
M6QE/3-$
M)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#$R"2`D-C`N.`T*8FEL;&EO;B!R97-U;'1I
M;F2!R96EN=F5S=&5D(&]U='-I
M9&4@=&AE(%4N4RX@5&AE('5N2!A2`D,3DN-"!B:6QL:6]N(&%T($IU
M;F4F(WA!,#LS,"P@,C`Q,BX\+V9O;G0^/"]P/@T*/'`@#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X)R!A;&EG;CTS1&IU
MF4],T0R/DEN8V]M92!T87AE2X\+V9O;G0^
M/"]P/@T*/'`@#L@34%21TE.+4)/
M5%1/33H@,'!X)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG
M('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/E5N8V5R=&%I;B!487@-"E!O#L@34%21TE.
M+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X)R!A;&EG;CTS1&IUF4],T0R/D%S(&]F($IU;F4F(WA!
M,#LS,"P@,C`Q,BP-"G=E(&AA9"`D-RXR(&)I;&QI;VX@;V8@=6YR96-O9VYI
M>F5D('1A>"!B96YE9FETF5D+"!W;W5L9"!A9F9E8W0@;W5R(&5F9F5C=&EV92!T87@@6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#$R""!B96YE9FET2P@;F5T(&]F(&9E9&5R86P@:6YC;VUE('1A>`T*8F5N969I=',N
M/"]F;VYT/CPO6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#$R#L@1D].5"U325I%.B`Q3X-"CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)TU!
M4D=)3BU43U`Z(#!P>#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X.R!&3TY4+5-)6D4Z
M(#$R6QE/3-$)T)/4D1%4BU#
M3TQ,05!313H@8V]L;&%P6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT
M9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V
M86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CPO='(^#0H\
M='(^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&-O;'-P86X],T0Q,CX-"CQHF4],T0Q('=I
M9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\+W1R/@T*/'1R
M/@T*/'1D/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@8V]LF4],T0Q/CQB/EEE87(@16YD960@2G5N928C
M>$$P.S,P+#PO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^
M/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB
M/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.S8L.3,U/"]B/CPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@F4]
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M8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4
M+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^
M/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N
M="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B@Q
M-CPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI
M9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/BDF(WA!,#L\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]T"!P;W-I=&EO;G,@65AF4],T0R
M/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4]
M,T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\
M9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS
M1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M
M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,F5M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS
M1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/DEN8W)E87-EF4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P
M.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@
M6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&
M3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T
M>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C
M>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]T"!P;W-I=&EO;G,@65A6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"$$P.SPO
M8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/BDF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI
M9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/BDF(WA!,#L\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CPO='(^#0H\='(^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$=&]P/@T*
M/'`@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@
M05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT
M9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS
M1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B@R-#PO8CX\+V9O
M;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T
M;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!
M,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/B@Q
M-#PO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N
M;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H
M861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF
M;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P
M,#`P)R!S:7IE/3-$,2!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@
M=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F
M)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT
M('-I>F4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q(&YO65A6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO
M8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!
M34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B0\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI
M9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4
M+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/C8L-30R/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\
M=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]TF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!S:7IE/3-$,R!N;W-H861E/3-$
M;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T
M>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C
M-3DU.34Y)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0S(&YOF4],T0S(&YOF4],T0S('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H
M861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\+W1R/@T*/"]T86)L93X-"CQP('-T
M>6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#$R""!Y96%R&%M:6YA
M=&EO;BX@07,@;V8@2G5N928C>$$P.S,P+`T*,C`Q,BP@=&AE('!R:6UA2X@5V4@8F5L:65V92!O=7(@86QL;W=A;F-E0T*2!I;F-R96%S92!O'0@
M,3(@;6]N=&AS+"!A'0@,3(@;6]N=&AS+B!792!A;'-O(&-O;G1I;G5E('1O(&)E('-U8FIE8W0@
M=&\@97AA;6EN871I;VX-"F)Y('1H92!)+E(N4RX@9F]R('1A>"!Y96%R6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU4
M3U`Z(#$R""!I;B!M86YY(&IU65A
M"!A=71H;W)I=&EE'!E8W1E9"!T
M;R!B92!M871E'0O:F%V87-C3X-"B`@("`\=&%B;&4@8VQA'0^/&1I=CX-"CQP('-T>6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#$X
M"F4],T0R/CQU/DY/
M5$4@,30@)B-X,C`Q-#L-"E5.14%23D5$(%)%5D5.544\+W4^/"]F;VYT/CPO
M6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#$R"6UE;G1S(&9O6QE
M/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#$X"#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X
M)R!A;&EG;CTS1&IUF4],T0R/E5N96%R;F5D(')E=F5N=64@9G)O;0T*=F]L
M=6UE(&QI8V5N65A2!A="!T:&4@8F5G:6YN:6YG(&]F(&5A8V@@8FEL;&EN9R!C
M;W9E6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#$X"#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X)R!A;&EG;CTS1&IUF4],T0R
M/D%L6UE
M;G1S(&9O$$P.S@@870@82!D:7-C;W5N=&5D('!R:6-E("AT:&4@)B-X
M,C`Q0SM7:6YD;W=S(%5P9W)A9&4-"D]F9F5R)B-X,C`Q1#LI.R!-:6-R;W-O
M9G0@1'EN86UI8W,@8G5S:6YE$$P.SPO6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#$R"6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#!P>#L@34%2
M1TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X.R!&3TY4+5-)6D4Z(#$R6QE/3-$)T)/4D1%4BU#3TQ,05!313H@8V]L;&%PF4],T0Q/CQB/BA);B!M:6QL:6]NF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q
M('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\+W1R/@T*
M/'1R/@T*/'1D/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@8V]LF4],T0Q/CQB/C(P,3(\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N
M/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O
M;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q/CQB/C(P,3$\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N
M/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/"]T6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P
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M;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)U!/4TE424]..B!R96QA=&EV93L@0D]45$]-.B`P
M+CAE>#L@5D525$E#04PM04Q)1TXZ(&)A6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P
M.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^
M/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!S:7IE/3-$
M,2!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T
M=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE
M9G0@6QE
M/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0Q(&YO
MF4],T0Q(&YO6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,
M63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B0\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!
M34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/C$W+#$R,#PO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#LF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^
M/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^#0H\:'(@F4],T0S('=I
M9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N
M/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$
M)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!S:7IE/3-$,R!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O
M/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/
M3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@$$P.SPOF4],T0R
M/BAA*3PO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1'1O6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#$R"#L@1D].
M5"U325I%.B`Q,G!X)SX-"B8C>$$P.SPOF4]
M,T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\
M9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q
M/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]TF4],T0Q(&YO6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"$$P.S,P
M+#PO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@
M6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'
M24XM3$5&5#H@,65M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))
M04PG('-I>F4],T0R/E=I;F1O=W,F(WA!,#LF86UP.R!7:6YD;W=S($QI=F4-
M"D1I=FES:6]N/"]F;VYT/CPOF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,
M63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B0\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@
M=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&%L:6=N/3-$6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"F4],T0R/C8L,S$U/"]F
M;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R
M/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]TF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
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M;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS
M1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT
M('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M
M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,65M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,
M63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/D]T:&5R('-E9VUE;G1S/"]F;VYT/CPOF4],T0Q/B8C
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M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R
M/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG
M;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]T
MF4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q('=I9'1H
M/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\+W1R/@T*/'1R(&)G
M8V]L;W(],T0C0T-%149&/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1'1O6QE
M/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,F5M)SX\9F]N
M="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/E1O=&%L
M/"]F;VYT/CPOF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG
M('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B0\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$
M8F]T=&]M(&%L:6=N/3-$F4]
M,T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI
M9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R
M/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]TF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P
M.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH
M6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!S:7IE/3-$
M,R!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T
M=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE
M9G0@6QE
M/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0S(&YO
MF4],T0S(&YO3X-"CQF;VYT('-T
M>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"7!E.B!T97AT+VAT;6P[(&-H
M87)S970](G5S+6%S8VEI(@T*#0H\:'1M;#X-"B`@/&AE860^#0H@("`@/$U%
M5$$@:'1T'0O
M:'1M;#L@8VAA7!E/3-$=&5X="]J879A
M'0^
M/&1I=CX-"CQP('-T>6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#$X"F4],T0R/CQU/DY/5$4@,34@)B-X,C`Q
M-#L@3U1(15(-"DQ/3D"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4]
M,T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\
M9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q
M/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N
M="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CPO='(^#0H\='(^#0H\
M=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&-O;'-P86X],T0X/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$
M)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!S:7IE/3-$,2!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O
M/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/
M3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@F4],T0Q/CQB/DIU
M;F4F(WA!,#LS,"P\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T
M=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQS6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQS6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$
M)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,65M)SX\9F]N="!S
M='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/DQE9V%L(&-O
M;G1I;F=E;F-I97,\+V9O;G0^/"]P/@T*/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B
M;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!
M34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]TF4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"F4],T0Q('=I
M9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N
M/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$
M)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!S:7IE/3-$,2!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O
M/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/
M3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/C@L,C`X/"]B/CPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4]
M,T0R/B0\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX]
M,T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I
M>F4],T0R/C@L,#F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]T
MF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C
M-3DU.34Y)R!S:7IE/3-$,R!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\
M=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F
M9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I
M9VAT('-I>F4],T0S(&YOF4],T0S(&YO'1087)T7S(Y83)F.39E7S0P9F-?
M-&,R85]B,3EE7S4U,C@S-V(P,31E,@T*0V]N=&5N="U,;V-A=&EO;CH@9FEL
M93HO+R]#.B\R.6$R9CDV95\T,&9C7S1C,F%?8C$Y95\U-3(X,S=B,#$T93(O
M5V]R:W-H965T'0O:F%V87-C3X-"B`@
M("`\=&%B;&4@8VQA#L@34%2
M1TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X)R!A;&EG;CTS1&-E;G1E6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#$R"3X-"CQF
M;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"#L@
M34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X.R!&3TY4+5-)6D4Z(#%P>"3X-"CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"65A6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)
M3BU43U`Z(#!P>#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X.R!&3TY4+5-)6D4Z(#$R
M6QE/3-$)T)/4D1%4BU#3TQ,
M05!313H@8V]L;&%PF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]TF4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q/CQB/EEE87(@16YD:6YG($IU;F4F(WA!,#LS
M,"P\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT
M('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQS6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$
M14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,65M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&
M3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/C(P,30\+V9O;G0^/"]P/@T*
M/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,65M
M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R
M/C(P,34\+V9O;G0^/"]P/@T*/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^
M/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,65M
M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R
M/C(P,38\+V9O;G0^/"]P/@T*/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^
M/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M
M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,65M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,
M63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/C(P,36QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M
M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,65M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,
M63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/E1H97)E869T97(\+V9O;G0^/"]P/@T*/"]T
M9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q('=I9'1H
M/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\+W1R/@T*/'1R(&)G
M8V]L;W(],T0C0T-%149&/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1'1O6QE
M/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,F5M)SX\9F]N
M="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/E1O=&%L
M/"]F;VYT/CPOF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG
M('-I>F4],T0R/B0\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@
M86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))
M04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.S$L.3F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]TF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!S:7IE/3-$,R!N;W-H861E/3-$
M;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T
M>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@#L@34%21TE.
M+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))
M04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/DEN9&5M;FEF:6-A=&EO;G,\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO
M6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#$R"F4@=&\@8V5R=&%I
M;B!C=7-T;VUE2!I;F9R:6YG96UE;G0@;6%D92!B>2!T:&ER9`T*6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X)R!A;&EG;CTS
M1&IUF4],T0R/D]N($1E8V5M8F5R)B-X03`[-"P@,C`P.2P-"G=E(&5N=&5R
M960@:6YT;R!A(#$P+7EE87(@86=R965M96YT('=I=&@@66%H;V\A($EN8RX-
M"B@F(W@R,#%#.UEA:&]O(28C>#(P,40[*2!W:&5R96)Y($UI8W)O3X-"CPO:'1M;#X-"@T*+2TM+2TM/5].97AT4&%R=%\R.6$R
M9CDV95\T,&9C7S1C,F%?8C$Y95\U-3(X,S=B,#$T93(-"D-O;G1E;G0M3&]C
M871I;VXZ(&9I;&4Z+R\O0SHO,CEA,F8Y-F5?-#!F8U\T8S)A7V(Q.65?-34R
M.#,W8C`Q-&4R+U=O'0O:'1M;#L@8VAA7!E
M(&-O;G1E;G0],T0G=&5X="]H=&UL.R!C:&%R3H@
M05))04P[)R!S:7IE/3-$,CX\=3Y.3U1%(#$W("8C.#(Q,CL@0T].5$E.1T5.
M0TE%4SPO=3X\+V9O;G0^/"]P/@T*/'`@#L@;6%R9VEN+6)O='1O;3H@,'!X.R6QE/3-$)VUA#LG(&%L:6=N/3-$:G5S=&EF>3X\9F]N="!S
M='EL93TS1"=F;VYT+69A;6EL>3H@05))04P[)R!S:7IE/3-$,CY!(&QA7-T96T@
M86YD(&-E2!I&EM=6T@86UO=6YT+"!D97!E;F1I
M;F2`D-3`P
M(&UI;&QI;VXL('=H:6-H(')E9FQE8W1S(&]U&EM871E;'D@)#$N-"!B:6QL:6]N(&UO2!F;W(@=F]U
M8VAE'!E;G-E
M#LG/B8C,38P.SPO
M6QE/3-$)VUA#LG(&%L:6=N/3-$:G5S=&EF>3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=F;VYT
M+69A;6EL>3H@05))04P[)R!S:7IE/3-$,CY4:&4@=&AR964@8V%S97,@65D+CPO9F]N=#X\+W`^#0H\3H@05))04P[)R!S:7IE/3-$
M,CX\8CY/=&AE6QA;F0I+"!A2!A3H@05))04P[
M)R!S:7IE/3-$,CX\8CY';W9E2!B:6YD:6YG(&-O
M;6UI=&UE;G1S(&]F9F5R960@8GD@36EC2!T
M;R!00W,@=&AA="!C86UE('!R96EN2!T:&4@0V]M;6ES&5D('1H92!E28C,38P.S$W+"`R,#$R+"!T
M:&4@0V]M;6ES2!M87D@8F4@9FEN960@=7`@=&\@,3`E(&]F(&ET6QE
M/3-$)VUA#LG/CQF
M;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)V9O;G0M9F%M:6QY.B!!4DE!3#LG('-I>F4],T0R/CQF
M;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)V9O;G0M9F%M:6QY.B!!4DE!3#LG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB
M/E!A=&5N="!A;F0@26YT96QL96-T=6%L(%!R;W!E6QE/3-$)VUA#LG/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)V9O;G0M
M9F%M:6QY.B!!4DE!3#LG('-I>F4],T0R/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)V9O;G0M
M9F%M:6QY.B!!4DE!3#LG('-I>F4],T0R/CQI/DUO=&]R;VQA($QI=&EG871I
M;VX\+VD^/"]F;VYT/CPO9F]N=#X\+W`^#0H\2!A;F0@
M=&AE(%5N:71E9"!+:6YG9&]M+B!);B!!2!-:6-R;W-O9G0@86YD($%P2!R96QA
M=&5D('1O(&%N($940R!I;G9E6QE/3-$)VUA#LG/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)V9O;G0M9F%M:6QY
M.B!!4DE!3#LG('-I>F4],T0R/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)V9O;G0M9F%M:6QY
M.B!!4DE!3#LG('-I>F4],T0R/CQU/DEN=&5R;F%T:6]N86P@5')A9&4@0V]M
M;6ES6QE/3-$)VUA
M#LG(&%L:6=N/3-$
M:G5S=&EF>3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=F;VYT+69A;6EL>3H@05))04P[)R!S
M:7IE/3-$,CX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=F;VYT+69A;6EL>3H@05))04P[)R!S
M:7IE/3-$,CY4:&4@:&5A&-L=7-I;VX@
M;W)D97(@86=A:6YS="!-;W1O2!T:&4@04Q*+"!W:&EC:"!B96-A;64@
M969F96-T:79E(&]N($IU;'DF(S$V,#LQ."P@,C`Q,BXF(S$V,#M-:6-R;W-O
M9G0@:&%S(&%P#L@;6%R
M9VEN+6)O='1O;3H@,'!X.R6QE
M/3-$)V9O;G0M9F%M:6QY.B!!4DE!3#LG('-I>F4],T0R/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE
M/3-$)V9O;G0M9F%M:6QY.B!!4DE!3#LG('-I>F4],T0R/DEN($YO=F5M8F5R
M(#(P,3`L($UO=&]R;VQA(&9I;&5D(&%N(&%C=&EO;B!A9V%I;G-T($UI8W)O
M"!C;VYS;VQE2!R96-O;6UE;F1E9"!T:&%T('1H92!)5$,@:7-S
M=64@82!L:6UI=&5D(&5X8VQU2!B92!A8FQE('1O(&UI=&EG871E(&ET"!P6QE/3-$)VUA#LG/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)V9O;G0M9F%M:6QY.B!!4DE!3#LG('-I
M>F4],T0R/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)V9O;G0M9F%M:6QY.B!!4DE!3#LG('-I
M>F4],T0R/CQU/E4N4RX@1&ES=')I8W0@0V]U3H@05))04P[
M)R!S:7IE/3-$,CY$:7-T2!-:6-R;W-O9G0@87,@82!C;VUP86YI;VX@=&\@36EC#L@;6%R9VEN+6)O='1O;3H@,'!X.R6QE/3-$)V9O;G0M9F%M:6QY.B!!4DE!3#LG('-I>F4]
M,T0R/DEN($YO=F5M8F5R(#(P,3`L($UI8W)O2!S=65D($UI8W)O2X@26X@1F5B2!J=61G;65N="!I;B!F
M879OF%T:6]N2!B96YE9FEC:6%R>2!O9B!T:&]S92!C;VUM
M:71M96YT2X@26X@07!R:6P@
M,C`Q,BP@=&AE(&-O=7)T(&ES2!R97-T2!I;FIU;F-T:6]N+B8C,38P.TUO=&]R;VQA(&AA6QE/3-$)VUA#LG(&%L:6=N/3-$:G5S=&EF>3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=F
M;VYT+69A;6EL>3H@05))04P[)R!S:7IE/3-$,CY#87-E2!-
M;W1O&-E2!S=&%Y960@
M8V%S92!I;B!7:7-C;VYS:6X@*&$@8V]M2!O9B!T:&5S92!C87-E#L@;6%R
M9VEN+6)O='1O;3H@,'!X.R6QE/3-$
M)V)O6QE/3-$)V9O;G0M9F%M:6QY.B!!4DE!3#LG('-I>F4]
M,T0R/B8C.#(R-CL\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1T;W`@=VED
M=&@],T0Q)3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(S$V,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT
M9"!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@=F%L:6=N/3-$=&]P/@T*/'`@86QI9VX],T1J=7-T
M:69Y/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)V9O;G0M9F%M:6QY.B!!4DE!3#LG('-I>F4]
M,T0R/DEN('1H92!T2!-:6-R;W-O9G0@
M&-H86YG92!!8W1I=F53>6YC+"!7:6YD;W=S($QI=F4@
M365S6YC(%-E6QE/3-$)V9O;G0M#LG/B8C,38P.SPOF4],T0Q/B8C
M,38P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D(&%L:6=N/3-$;&5F="!V86QI9VX],T1T
M;W`@=VED=&@],T0R)3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=F;VYT+69A;6EL>3H@05))
M04P[)R!S:7IE/3-$,CXF(S@R,C8[/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N
M/3-$=&]P('=I9'1H/3-$,24^/&9O;G0@3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=F;VYT+69A;6EL>3H@05))
M04P[)R!S:7IE/3-$,CY);B!T:&4@36]T;W)O;&$@86-T:6]N(&]R:6=I;F%L
M;'D@9FEL960@:6X@0V%L:69O6QE/3-$)V9O;G0M#LG/B8C,38P
M.SPOF4],T0Q/B8C,38P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D(&%L:6=N/3-$;&5F
M="!V86QI9VX],T1T;W`@=VED=&@],T0R)3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=F;VYT
M+69A;6EL>3H@05))04P[)R!S:7IE/3-$,CXF(S@R,C8[/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^
M#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$=&]P('=I9'1H/3-$,24^/&9O;G0@3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=F;VYT
M+69A;6EL>3H@05))04P[)R!S:7IE/3-$,CY);B!C;W5N=&5R8VQA:6US(&EN
M('1H92!P871E;G0@86-T:6]NF4Z(#%P>#L@;6%R
M9VEN+71O#L@;6%R9VEN+6)O='1O;3H@,'!X.R#L@;6%R9VEN+6)O='1O
M;3H@,'!X.R3PO=3X\+V9O;G0^/"]P/@T*/'`@#L@;6%R9VEN+6)O='1O;3H@,'!X.R6QE/3-$)V9O;G0M9F%M:6QY.B!!4DE!
M3#LG('-I>F4],T0R/DEN($IU;'D@,C`Q,2P@36]T;W)O;&$@9FEL960@#L@;6%R9VEN+6)O='1O;3H@,'!X.R6QE/3-$)V)O6QE/3-$)V9O;G0M9F%M:6QY
M.B!!4DE!3#LG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C.#(R-CL\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V
M86QI9VX],T1T;W`@=VED=&@],T0Q)3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(S$V,#L\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@=F%L:6=N/3-$=&]P/@T*
M/'`@86QI9VX],T1J=7-T:69Y/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)V9O;G0M9F%M:6QY
M.B!!4DE!3#LG('-I>F4],T0R/E1W;R!O9B!T:&4@'!L;W)EF4Z(#9P>#L@;6%R
M9VEN+71OF4],T0Q/B8C,38P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D(&%L:6=N/3-$;&5F="!V86QI9VX],T1T;W`^
M#0H\6YC('!R;W1O8V]L(&5M65D(&)Y(%=I
M;F1O=W,@4&AO;F4@-RP@3W5T;&]O:R!-;V)I;&4L($AO=&UA:6P@36]B:6QE
M+"!%>&-H86YG92!/;FQI;F4L($5X8VAA;F=E(%-E6EN9R!T
M:&4@06-T:79E4WEN8R!PF4Z(#9P>#L@;6%R9VEN+71OF4],T0Q/B8C,38P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D(&%L:6=N/3-$;&5F="!V86QI9VX],T1T;W`^#0H\2P@=VAI8V@@36EC6QE/3-$)VUA#LG/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE
M/3-$)V9O;G0M9F%M:6QY.B!!4DE!3#LG('-I>F4],T0R/CQU/E5N:71E9"!+
M:6YG9&]M/"]U/CPO9F]N=#X\+W`^#0H\2!A9V%I;G-T('1H92!!8W1I=F53>6YC('!R;W1O8V]L+B!);B!&96)R
M=6%R>2`R,#$R+"!-;W1O6QE/3-$)VUA#LG/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$
M)V9O;G0M9F%M:6QY.B!!4DE!3#LG('-I>F4],T0R/CQI/D]T:&5R(%!A=&5N
M="!A;F0@26YT96QL96-T=6%L(%!R;W!E#L@;6%R9VEN+6)O
M='1O;3H@,'!X.R6QE/3-$)V9O
M;G0M9F%M:6QY.B!!4DE!3#LG('-I>F4],T0R/DEN(&%D9&ET:6]N('1O('1H
M97-E(&-A2`V,"!O=&AE6QE/3-$)VUA#LG/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)V9O;G0M
M9F%M:6QY.B!!4DE!3#LG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/D]T:&5R/"]B/CPO9F]N=#X\
M+W`^#0H\2!C;W5R
M2!B96QI979E2!C:&%N9V4@:6X@=&AE(&9U='5R92X\
M+V9O;G0^/"]P/@T*/'`@#L@;6%R
M9VEN+6)O='1O;3H@,'!X.R6QE
M/3-$)V9O;G0M9F%M:6QY.B!!4DE!3#LG('-I>F4],T0R/D%S(&]F($IU;F4F
M(S$V,#LS,"P@,C`Q,BP@=V4@:&%D(&%C8W)U960@86=G'1087)T7S(Y83)F
M.39E7S0P9F-?-&,R85]B,3EE7S4U,C@S-V(P,31E,@T*0V]N=&5N="U,;V-A
M=&EO;CH@9FEL93HO+R]#.B\R.6$R9CDV95\T,&9C7S1C,F%?8C$Y95\U-3(X
M,S=B,#$T93(O5V]R:W-H965T'0O:F%V87-C3X-"B`@("`\=&%B;&4@8VQA#(P
M,30[#0I35$]#2TA/3$1%4E,F(W@R,#$Y.R!%455)5%D\+W4^/"]F;VYT/CPO
M6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#$R"6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#$R"6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#!P>#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X
M.R!&3TY4+5-)6D4Z(#$R6QE
M/3-$)T)/4D1%4BU#3TQ,05!313H@8V]L;&%P6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O
M;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^
M/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T
M9#X-"CPO='(^#0H\='(^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&-O;'-P86X]
M,T0Q,CX-"CQHF4],T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^
M#0H\+W1R/@T*/'1R/@T*/'1D/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@8V]LF4],T0Q/CQB/EEE87(@
M16YD960@2G5N928C>$$P.S,P+#PO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI
M9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P
M.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@
M6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P
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M;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/C$U
M-3PO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N
M;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M
M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,F5M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,
M63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/E)EF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P
M.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N
M="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B8C
M>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI
M9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG
M('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B@Q-#(\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N
M/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/CQB/BDF(WA!,#L\+V(^/"]F;VYT
M/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S
M='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT
M/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))
M04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^
M#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!S:7IE/3-$,2!N;W-H861E
M/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR
M('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2
M.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q(&YO65A6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"F4],T0R/C@L,SF4],T0R
M/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI
M9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/C@L-C8X/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L
M:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]TF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE
M/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!S:7IE/3-$,R!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D
M92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$
M)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y
M)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0S(&YOF4],T0S(&YOF4],T0S('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$
M;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\+W1R/@T*/"]T86)L93X-"CQP('-T>6QE/3-$
M)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#$X"#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X)R!A;&EG;CTS1&IU
MF4],T0R/D]N(%-E$$P.S(R+`T*,C`P."P@=V4@86YN;W5N
M8V5D('1H870@;W5R($)O87)D(&]F($1I'!I
M&EM871E;'D@)#@N,B!B:6QL
M:6]N(&]F('1H92!A2!T:6UE('=I=&AO=70@3X-"CQF;VYT
M('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$
M)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#!P>#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X.R!&3TY4+5-)
M6D4Z(#$R6QE/3-$)T)/4D1%
M4BU#3TQ,05!313H@8V]L;&%P6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T
M9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]LF4]
M,T0Q/CQB/D%M;W5N=#PO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B
M;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQS6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O
M;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q/CQB/E-H87)EF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQS6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"F4],T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^
M#0H\+W1R/@T*/'1R/@T*/'1D/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@8V]LF4],T0Q/CQB/EEE87(@16YD960@2G5N928C>$$P.S,P+#PO
M8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF
M(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@
MF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!
M,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^
M/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@
M05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B0\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B
M;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,
M63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/C0L,#`P/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L
M:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF
M(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@
MF4],T0R
M/C4X/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT
M9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V
M86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT
M9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I
M>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL
M93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF
M;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4]
M,T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V
M86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/C,L-3@S/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@
M=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]TF4],T0Q/B8C
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M;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@F4]
M,T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\
M9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB
M/B8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@
M86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))
M04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/C$L,#`P/"]B/CPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R
M/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG
M;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4
M+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P
M.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N
M="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B
M;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/C8W/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T
M=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O
M;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/C(L,#`P/"]F
M;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R
M/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]T6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/C8V/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO
M=W)AF4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T
M9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/C$L-C,Q/"]F;VYT/CPO
M=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/B8C>$$P
M.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N
M="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B
M;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/C$S,#PO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T-/
M3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!S:7IE/3-$,2!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO
M=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2
M.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!A;&EG
M;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D
M92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q
M/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH
M6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!S:7IE/3-$
M,2!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T
M=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE
M9G0@6QE
M/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0Q(&YO
MF4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q('=I
M9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\+W1R/@T*/'1R
M(&)G8V]L;W(],T0C0T-%149&/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1'1O6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,F5M)SX\
M9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/E1O
M=&%L/"]F;VYT/CPOF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))
M04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V
M86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&
M3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/C$T,CPO8CX\+V9O;G0^
M/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/B8C
M>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T
M;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C
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M;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I
M>F4],T0R/B0\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI
M9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG
M('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.S$P+#@S-CPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#LF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^
M/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^#0H\:'(@F4],T0S('=I
M9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N
M/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$
M)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!S:7IE/3-$,R!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O
M/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/
M3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!A
M;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0S(&YOF4],T0S(&YOF4],T0S('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S
M:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4]
M,T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-
M"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!S:7IE
M/3-$,R!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$
M8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS
M1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0S
M(&YOF4],T0S(&YO
M6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"3X-"CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)
M3BU43U`Z(#!P>#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X.R!&3TY4+5-)6D4Z(#$R
M6QE/3-$)T)/4D1%4BU#3TQ,
M05!313H@8V]L;&%P6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#!P>#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X)R!A
M;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/@T*/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/CQB/E!E$$P.U-H87)E/"]B/CPO9F]N=#X\
M+W`^#0H\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$
M,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O
M;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQS6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^
M/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q/CQB/E!A>6UE;G0F(WA!,#M$871E/"]B/CPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O
M;G0^/"]T9#X-"CPO='(^#0H\='(^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&-O
M;'-P86X],T0Q-CX-"CQHF4],T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O
M/CPO=&0^#0H\+W1R/@T*/'1R/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N
M="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B
M;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4]
M,T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\
M9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q
M/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N
M="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B
M;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CPO='(^#0H\
M='(^#0H\=&0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!C;VQSF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@
M05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B0\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L
M:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&%L:6=N/3-$F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4
M+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^
M/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N
M="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/DYO
M=F5M8F5R)B-X03`[,36QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB
M/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B
M;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"$$P.S(P,3$\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$
M8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O
M;G0^/"]T9#X-"CPO='(^#0H\='(^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$=&]P/@T*/'`@
M6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL
M93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B0\+V(^/"]F
M;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&%L:6=N/3-$F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS
M1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.SPO8CX\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H
M=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R
M/CQB/D9E8G)U87)Y(#$V+"`R,#$R/"]B/CPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R
M/CQB/B0\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&%L
M:6=N/3-$6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)U1%
M6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,65M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL
M93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/DUA6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT
M9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/C$L-CF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
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M=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^
M/"]T9#X-"CPO='(^#0H\='(^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$=&]P/@T*/'`@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/C`N,C`\
M+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V
M86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S
M='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B0\+V(^
M/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&%L:6=N/3-$6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q(&YO3X-"CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"$$P
M.S,P+"`R,#$R+CPO9F]N=#X\+W`^#0H\3X-
M"CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#!P>#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@
M,'!X.R!&3TY4+5-)6D4Z(#$R6QE/3-$)T)/4D1%4BU#3TQ,05!313H@8V]L;&%P6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#!P>#L@34%2
M1TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/@T*/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/CQB/E!E$$P
M.U-H87)E/"]B/CPO9F]N=#X\+W`^#0H\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V
M86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQS6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE
M/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@
M8V]LF4],T0Q/CQB/E!A>6UE;G0F(WA!,#M$871E
M/"]B/CPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S
M:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CPO='(^#0H\='(^#0H\=&0@
M=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&-O;'-P86X],T0Q-CX-"CQHF4],T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N
M;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\+W1R/@T*/'1R/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T
M9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^
M/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T
M9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O
M;G0^/"]T9#X-"CPO='(^#0H\='(^#0H\=&0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!C;VQS6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"$$P.S$X+"8C>$$P
M.S(P,3`\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,
M63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B0\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!
M34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.S$L,S8S/"]F;VYT
M/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/B8C
M>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\
M9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/D1E8V5M8F5R)B-X03`[.2PF(WA!,#LR,#$P/"]F
M;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R
M/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]TF4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-
M"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/D9E8G)U87)Y(#$W+"`R,#$Q
M/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4]
M,T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V
M86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q
M/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N
M="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B0\+V9O
M;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\
M9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/C$L
M,S4P/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT
M9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/DIU;F4@.2P@,C`Q,3PO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O
M;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"F4],T0R
M/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI
M9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/D%U9W5S="`Q."P@,C`Q,3PO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@
M6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4
M+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/"]T#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@
M,'!X.R!&3TY4+5-)6D4Z(#%P>"3X-"CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"3X-"CPO:'1M;#X-"@T*+2TM+2TM/5].97AT
M4&%R=%\R.6$R9CDV95\T,&9C7S1C,F%?8C$Y95\U-3(X,S=B,#$T93(-"D-O
M;G1E;G0M3&]C871I;VXZ(&9I;&4Z+R\O0SHO,CEA,F8Y-F5?-#!F8U\T8S)A
M7V(Q.65?-34R.#,W8C`Q-&4R+U=O'0O:'1M;#L@8VAA7!E(&-O;G1E;G0],T0G=&5X="]H=&UL.R!C:&%R#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@
M,'!X)R!A;&EG;CTS1&-E;G1E6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"3X-"CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3""!E9F9E8W1S('=E6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#!P>#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@
M,'!X.R!&3TY4+5-)6D4Z(#$R6QE/3-$)T)/4D1%4BU#3TQ,05!313H@8V]L;&%P6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O
M;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^
M/"]T9#X-"CPO='(^#0H\='(^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&-O;'-P
M86X],T0Q,CX-"CQHF4],T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO
M=&0^#0H\+W1R/@T*/'1R/@T*/'1D/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@8V]LF4],T0Q/CQB/EEE
M87(@16YD960@2G5N928C>$$P.S,P+#PO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V
M86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q
M/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;2!C;VQSF4]
M,T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C
M;VQSF4],T0Q
M/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQS
M6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M
M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,65M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,
M63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/E5N6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.R8C
M>$$P.S(S-CPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@
M;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"F4],T0R/BDF
M(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@
M6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]TF4],T0Q/B8C
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M;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@F4]
M,T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\
M9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS
M1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/BDF(WA!,#L\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CPO='(^#0H\='(^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M
M(&-O;'-P86X],T0T/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!S
M:7IE/3-$,2!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N
M/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG
M;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4]
M,T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q
M(&YOF4]
M,T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\+W1R
M/@T*/'1R(&)G8V]L;W(],T0C0T-%149&/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1'1O6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@
M,F5M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4]
M,T0R/DYE="!U;G)E86QI>F5D(&=A:6YS("AL;W-S97,I(&]N#0ID97)I=F%T
M:79E6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG
M('-I>F4],T0R/B0\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@
M86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))
M04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B@V,C6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^
M/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P
M)R!S:7IE/3-$,2!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L
M:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A
M;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I
M>F4],T0Q(&YOF4]
M,T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\
M+W1R/@T*/'1R/@T*/'1D/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@8V]LF4],T0Q/CQB/DYE="!5;G)E
M86QI>F5D($=A:6YS("A,;W-S97,I(&]N($EN=F5S=&UE;G1S/"]B/CPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF
M(WA!,#LF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@
M8V]LF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$
M,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]L
MF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF
M(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/"]TF5D(&=A:6YS("AL;W-S97,I+"!N
M970@;V8@=&%X#0IE9F9E8W1S(&]F(#QB/B0H.3,I/"]B/BP@)#6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/B@Q-S(\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO
M=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/CQB/BDF
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M=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$
M,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O
M;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M
M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,65M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!
M34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/E)E8VQAF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@
M05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT
M9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS
M1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B@R,3@\+V(^/"]F
M;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R
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M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL
M93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF
M;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H
M861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF
M;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P
M,#`P)R!S:7IE/3-$,2!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@
M=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F
M)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT
M('-I>F4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q(&YO6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V
M86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\
M=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!S:7IE/3-$,2!N;W-H861E/3-$
M;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T
M>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C
M,#`P,#`P)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q
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M=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/CQB/BDF(WA!,#L\+V(^
M/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4]
M,T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\
M9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS
M1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T
M9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/B@R,#8\+V9O;G0^/"]T
M9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]TF4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO
M=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!S:7IE/3-$,2!N;W-H
M861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*
M/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"$$P.SPO8CX\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT
M9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#LF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-
M"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^#0H\:'(@F4],T0S('=I9'1H/3-$
M,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T
M=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2
M.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!S:7IE/3-$,R!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^
M#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C
M9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!A;&EG;CTS
M1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0S(&YOF4],T0S(&YO3X-"CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3""F4],T0Q/B8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S
M:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T
M;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE
M/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@
M8V]LF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]T6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!S
M:7IE/3-$,2!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N
M/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG
M;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"$$P.S,P+#PO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@
M05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B0\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L
M:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&%L:6=N/3-$6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/BDF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT
M9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]T6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/B8C
M>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T
M;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,65M)SX\
M9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/E1R
M86YS;&%T:6]N(&%D:G5S=&UE;G1S(&%N9`T*;W1H97(\+V9O;G0^/"]P/@T*
M/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O
M;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,
M63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O
M/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!S:7IE/3-$,2!N
M;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M
M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@
M6QE/3-$
M)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q(&YO6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.S$L-#(R/"]B/CPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^
M/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@
M05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B0\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B
M;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,
M63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.S$L.#8S/"]F;VYT/CPO
M=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/B8C>$$P
M.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N
M="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B
M;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#LF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T
M9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^#0H\:'(@F4],T0S('=I9'1H
M/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$
M8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/
M3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!S:7IE/3-$,R!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO
M=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2
M.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!A;&EG
M;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0S(&YOF4],T0S(&YO'1087)T7S(Y83)F.39E
M7S0P9F-?-&,R85]B,3EE7S4U,C@S-V(P,31E,@T*0V]N=&5N="U,;V-A=&EO
M;CH@9FEL93HO+R]#.B\R.6$R9CDV95\T,&9C7S1C,F%?8C$Y95\U-3(X,S=B
M,#$T93(O5V]R:W-H965T'0O:F%V87-C3X-"B`@("`\=&%B;&4@8VQA65E(%-T;V-K(&%N9"!3879I;F=S(%!L86YS/"]T9#X-"B`@
M("`@("`@/'1D(&-L87-S/3-$=&5X=#X\9&EV/@T*/'`@#L@;6%R9VEN+6)O='1O;3H@,'!X.R&-L
M=61I;F2!E>&5R8VES97,@86YD('9E6QE/3-$)VUA#LG(&%L:6=N/3-$:G5S=&EF>3X\9F]N
M="!S='EL93TS1"=F;VYT+69A;6EL>3H@05))04P[)R!S:7IE/3-$,CY3=&]C
M:RUB87-E9"!C;VUP96YS871I;VX@97AP96YS92!A;F0@#LG/B8C,38P.SPOF4],T0Q/B8C,38P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(S$V,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-
M"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C,38P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(S$V,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT
M9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C,38P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(S$V,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CPO='(^
M#0H\='(^#0H\=&0@8V]L3H@05))04P[)R!S:7IE/3-$,3X\8CXR,#$R/"]B/CPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(S$V,#L\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4]
M,T0Q/B8C,38P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D(&-O;'-P86X],T0R(&%L:6=N
M/3-$6QE/3-$)V9O;G0M
M9F%M:6QY.B!!4DE!3#LG('-I>F4],T0Q/CQB/C(P,3`\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO
M=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C,38P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]T6QE/3-$)V9O;G0M9F%M:6QY.B!!4DE!3#LG('-I
M>F4],T0R/E-T;V-K+6)A'!E;G-E/"]F;VYT
M/CPOF4]
M,T0Q/B8C,38P.R8C,38P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=F;VYT+69A;6EL>3H@05))04P[)R!S:7IE
M/3-$,CX\8CXD/"]B/CPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D(&%L:6=N/3-$6QE/3-$)V9O;G0M9F%M:6QY.B!!
M4DE!3#LG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B8C,38P.R8C,38P.S(L,C0T/"]B/CPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^
M/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)V9O;G0M9F%M
M:6QY.B!!4DE!3#LG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C,38P.R8C,38P.S(L,38V/"]F;VYT
M/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)A3H@05))04P[)R!S:7IE/3-$,CXF
M(S$V,#LF(S$V,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^
M/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)V9O;G0M9F%M:6QY.B!!4DE!3#LG
M('-I>F4],T0R/B0\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=F;VYT+69A;6EL>3H@05))
M04P[)R!S:7IE/3-$,CXF(S$V,#LF(S$V,#LQ+#@Y,3PO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)W1E>'0M:6YD96YT.B`M,65M.R!M87)G:6XM;&5F
M=#H@,65M.R"!B96YE9FET3H@05))04P[)R!S:7IE/3-$,CX\8CXW
M.#4\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)A
M3H@05))04P[
M)R!S:7IE/3-$,CX\8CXF(S$V,#LF(S$V,#L\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\
M=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C,38P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=F
M;VYT+69A;6EL>3H@05))04P[)R!S:7IE/3-$,CXD/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\
M=&0@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H="!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@3H@05))04P[)R!S:7IE/3-$,CXF(S$V
M,#LF(S$V,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O
M;G0@6QE/3-$)V9O;G0M9F%M:6QY.B!!4DE!3#LG('-I
M>F4],T0R/B0\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=F;VYT+69A;6EL>3H@05))04P[
M)R!S:7IE/3-$,CXV-C(\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T
M;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)V9O;G0M9F%M:6QY
M.B!!4DE!3#LG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C,38P.R8C,38P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/"]T6QE/3-$)V9O;G0M#LG/CQF;VYT
M('-T>6QE/3-$)V9O;G0M9F%M:6QY.B!!4DE!3#LG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/E-T
M;V-K(%!L86YS("A%>&-L=61I;F6QE/3-$)VUA#LG/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)V9O;G0M9F%M:6QY.B!!4DE!
M3#LG('-I>F4],T0R/CQI/E-T;V-K(&%W87)D#L@;6%R9VEN+6)O='1O;3H@
M,'!X.R6QE/3-$)V9O;G0M9F%M
M:6QY.B!!4DE!3#LG('-I>F4],T0R/E-T;V-K(&%W87)D2!V97-T(&]V97(@82!F:79E
M+7EE87(@3H@05))04P[)R!S:7IE/3-$,CX\:3Y3:&%R960@6QE/3-$)VUA#LG(&%L:6=N/3-$:G5S=&EF>3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=F;VYT+69A;6EL
M>3H@05))04P[)R!S:7IE/3-$,CY792!G65A28C,38P.S$L(#(P,#D@=&AR
M;W5G:"!*=6YE)B,Q-C`[,S`L(#(P,3`L(')E2X@26X@075G
M=7-T(&9O;&QO=VEN9R!T:&4@96YD(&]F(&5A8V@@#L@;6%R9VEN+6)O='1O;3H@,'!X.R6QE/3-$)VUA#LG(&%L:6=N/3-$:G5S=&EF>3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=F;VYT+69A;6EL
M>3H@05))04P[)R!S:7IE/3-$,CY5;F1E65A2X\+V9O;G0^/"]P/@T*/'`@#L@;6%R9VEN+6)O='1O;3H@,'!X.R6QE/3-$)V9O;G0M9F%M:6QY.B!!
M4DE!3#LG('-I>F4],T0R/DEN(%-E&5D('!E&5C=71I=F4@;V9F:6-E2!D:79I9&EN9R!T:&4@
M=F%L=64@;V8@.#`E(&]F('1H92!T;W1A;"!A=V%R9"!B>2!T:&4@8VQO2!I;B!!=6=U2!A9G1E65A6QE/3-$)VUA#LG/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)V9O;G0M
M9F%M:6QY.B!!4DE!3#LG('-I>F4],T0R/CQI/D%C=&EV:71Y(&9O6QE/3-$)VUA#LG(&%L:6=N/3-$:G5S
M=&EF>3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=F;VYT+69A;6EL>3H@05))04P[)R!S:7IE
M/3-$,CY4:&4@9F%I#LG
M/B8C,38P.SPO6QE/3-$)V)O3H@05))04P[)R!S:7IE/3-$,3X\
M8CY996%R($5N9&5D($IU;F4F(S$V,#LS,"P\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\
M=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C,38P.R8C,38P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D(&-O;'-P86X],T0R(&%L:6=N/3-$6QE/3-$)V9O;G0M9F%M:6QY.B!!
M4DE!3#LG('-I>F4],T0Q/CQB/C(P,3(\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@
M=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C,38P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(S$V
M,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!C;VQS3H@
M05))04P[)R!S:7IE/3-$,3X\8CXR,#$Q/"]B/CPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(S$V,#L\+V9O;G0^
M/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)W1E>'0M:6YD96YT.B`M,65M.R!M87)G:6XM;&5F=#H@,65M.RF4]
M,T0Q/B8C,38P.R8C,38P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)V9O;G0M9F%M:6QY.B!!
M4DE!3#LG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B8C,38P.R8C,38P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T
M9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@3H@05))04P[)R!S:7IE
M/3-$,CXD/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H="!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)V9O;G0M
M9F%M:6QY.B!!4DE!3#LG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C,38P.R8C,38P.S`N,3,F(S$V
M,#LM)B,Q-C`[)"8C,38P.R8C,38P.S`N,38\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V
M86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$
M)V9O;G0M9F%M:6QY.B!!4DE!3#LG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C,38P.R8C,38P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$
M,3XF(S$V,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W
M6QE/3-$)V9O;G0M9F%M:6QY.B!!4DE!
M3#LG('-I>F4],T0R/B0\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)W1E>'0M:6YD96YT.B`M,65M.R!M87)G
M:6XM;&5F=#H@,65M.R3H@
M05))04P[)R!S:7IE/3-$,CX\8CXF(S$V,#L\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\
M=&0@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H="!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)V9O;G0M9F%M:6QY.B!!4DE!3#LG('-I>F4]
M,T0R/CQB/C`N-R4F(S$V,#LM)B,Q-C`[,2XW)3PO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-
M"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)V9O;G0M9F%M:6QY.B!!4DE!3#LG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B8C,38P
M.R8C,38P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^
M/&9O;G0@3H@05))04P[)R!S:7IE/3-$,CXF(S$V,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-
M"CQT9"!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N
M;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@3H@05))04P[)R!S:7IE/3-$,CXF(S$V,#LF(S$V,#L\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@3H@05))
M04P[)R!S:7IE/3-$,CXF(S$V,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!A;&EG;CTS
M1')I9VAT('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@
M3H@05))04P[)R!S:7IE/3-$,CXF(S$V,#LF(S$V,#L\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CPO='(^#0H\+W1A8FQE/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)V-O
M;&]R.B`C,#`P,#`P.RF4],T0Q("\^#0H\F4Z(#%P>#L@;6%R
M9VEN+71O#L@;6%R9VEN+6)O='1O;3H@,'!X.RF4Z(#$R#L@;6%R9VEN+6)O='1O;3H@,'!X
M.R6QE/3-$)V)OF4],T0Q/B8C,38P.R8C,38P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D(&-O;'-P
M86X],T0R(&%L:6=N/3-$6QE/3-$)V9O;G0M9F%M:6QY.B!!4DE!3#LG('-I>F4],T0Q/CQB/E-H87)E
MF4],T0Q/B8C,38P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D(&-O
M;'-P86X],T0R(&%L:6=N/3-$6QE/3-$)VUA#L@;6%R
M9VEN+6)O='1O;3H@,'!X.R3H@05))04P[)R!S:7IE/3-$,3X\8CY796EG:'1E9#PO
M8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]P/@T*/'`@6QE
M/3-$)V9O;G0M9F%M:6QY.B!!4DE!3#LG('-I>F4],T0Q/CQB/D%V97)A9V4\
M+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO6QE/3-$)VUA#L@
M;6%R9VEN+6)O='1O;3H@,'!X.R3H@05))04P[)R!S:7IE/3-$,3X\8CY'#LG(&%L:6=N/3-$F4]
M,T0Q/B8C,38P.R8C,38P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D(&-O;'-P86X],T0R
M(&%L:6=N/3-$6QE/3-$
M)V9O;G0M9F%M:6QY.B!!4DE!3#LG('-I>F4],T0Q/CQB/BA);B8C,38P.VUI
M;&QI;VYS*3PO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^
M/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C,38P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D(&-O;'-P86X],T0R('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$
M,3XF(S$V,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O
M;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C,38P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF
M(S$V,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!C;VQSF4],T0Q/B8C,38P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/"]T3H@05))
M04P[)R!S:7IE/3-$,CY.;VYV97-T960@8F%L86YC92P@8F5G:6YN:6YG(&]F
M('EE87(\+V9O;G0^/"]P/@T*/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^
M/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)V9O;G0M9F%M:6QY.B!!
M4DE!3#LG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B8C,38P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT
M9"!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS
M1"=F;VYT+69A;6EL>3H@05))04P[)R!S:7IE/3-$,CX\8CXR-34\+V(^/"]F
M;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)A3H@05))04P[)R!S:7IE/3-$
M,CX\8CXF(S$V,#LF(S$V,#L\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N
M/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C,38P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=F;VYT+69A;6EL
M>3H@05))04P[)R!S:7IE/3-$,CX\8CXD/"]B/CPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M(&%L:6=N/3-$6QE/3-$
M)V9O;G0M9F%M:6QY.B!!4DE!3#LG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B8C,38P.R8C,38P
M.S(S+C4Y/"]B/CPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N
M;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)V9O;G0M9F%M:6QY.B!!4DE!3#LG('-I>F4],T0R/D=R86YT
M960\+V9O;G0^/"]P/@T*/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O
M;G0@6QE/3-$)V9O;G0M9F%M:6QY.B!!4DE!
M3#LG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B8C,38P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!A
M;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=F
M;VYT+69A;6EL>3H@05))04P[)R!S:7IE/3-$,CX\8CXY,#PO8CX\+V9O;G0^
M/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)V9O;G0M9F%M:6QY.B!!4DE!3#LG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB
M/B8C,38P.R8C,38P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B
M;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)V9O;G0M9F%M:6QY.B!!
M4DE!3#LG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B0\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@86QI
M9VX],T1R:6=H="!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@3H@05))04P[)R!S:7IE/3-$,CX\
M8CXF(S$V,#LF(S$V,#L\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\+W1R/@T*/'1R(&)G
M8V]L;W(],T0C8V-E969F/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1'1O6QE
M/3-$)W1E>'0M:6YD96YT.B`M,65M.R!M87)G:6XM;&5F=#H@,F5M.RF4],T0Q/B8C,38P.R8C,38P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=F;VYT+69A;6EL>3H@05))
M04P[)R!S:7IE/3-$,CX\8CXF(S$V,#L\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@
M86QI9VX],T1R:6=H="!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)V9O;G0M9F%M:6QY.B!!4DE!
M3#LG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B0\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@86QI9VX]
M,T1R:6=H="!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@3H@05))04P[)R!S:7IE/3-$,CX\8CXF
M(S$V,#LF(S$V,#L\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\+W1R/@T*/'1R/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1'1O6QE/3-$)W1E>'0M:6YD96YT.B`M,65M
M.R!M87)G:6XM;&5F=#H@,F5M.RF4],T0Q/B8C,38P
M.R8C,38P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N
M="!S='EL93TS1"=F;VYT+69A;6EL>3H@05))04P[)R!S:7IE/3-$,CX\8CXF
M(S$V,#L\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H="!V86QI
M9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)V9O;G0M9F%M:6QY.B!!4DE!3#LG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B0\
M+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H="!V86QI9VX],T1B
M;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@3H@05))04P[)R!S:7IE/3-$,CX\8CXF(S$V,#LF(S$V,#L\+V(^/"]F
M;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\+W1R/@T*/'1R/@T*/'1D(&-O;'-P86X],T0T('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\:'(@F4],T0Q/B8C,38P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(S$V,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-
M"CPO='(^#0H\='(@8F=C;VQO3H@05))04P[
M)R!S:7IE/3-$,CY.;VYV97-T960@8F%L86YC92P@96YD(&]F('EE87(\+V9O
M;G0^/"]P/@T*/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)V9O;G0M9F%M:6QY.B!!4DE!3#LG('-I
M>F4],T0R/CQB/B8C,38P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!A;&EG;CTS
M1')I9VAT('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=F;VYT+69A
M;6EL>3H@05))04P[)R!S:7IE/3-$,CX\8CXR-#@\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^
M#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)A3H@05))04P[)R!S:7IE/3-$,CX\8CXF(S$V
M,#LF(S$V,#L\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M
M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C,38P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=F;VYT+69A;6EL>3H@05))04P[
M)R!S:7IE/3-$,CX\8CXD/"]B/CPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D(&%L:6=N/3-$
M6QE/3-$)V9O;G0M9F%M
M:6QY.B!!4DE!3#LG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/C(S+CDP/"]B/CPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@
MF4],T0Q/B8C,38P
M.R8C,38P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\:'(@
MF4],T0S("\^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B
M;W1T;VT^/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)V-O;&]R.B`C-3DU.34Y.RF4],T0Q
M/B8C,38P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N
M="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(S$V,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B
M;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C,38P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(S$V,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI
M9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4]
M,T0Q/B8C,38P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\
M9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(S$V,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CPO='(^#0H\='(^
M#0H\=&0^)B,Q-C`[/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!C;VQS6QE
M/3-$)W1E>'0M:6YD96YT.B`M,65M.R!M87)G:6XM;&5F=#H@,65M.RF4],T0Q/B8C
M,38P.R8C,38P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\
M9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=F;VYT+69A;6EL>3H@05))04P[)R!S:7IE/3-$,CX\
M8CXF(S$V,#L\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H="!V
M86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@3H@05))04P[)R!S:7IE/3-$,CX\8CXF(S$V,#LF(S$V,#L\
M+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I
M>F4],T0Q/B8C,38P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=F;VYT+69A;6EL>3H@05))04P[)R!S:7IE/3-$
M,CX\8CXD/"]B/CPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D(&%L:6=N/3-$6QE/3-$)V9O;G0M9F%M:6QY.B!!4DE!
M3#LG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/C(S+C6QE/3-$)V9O;G0M9F%M:6QY.B!!4DE!3#LG
M('-I>F4],T0R/D=R86YT960\+V9O;G0^/"]P/@T*/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI
M9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)V9O
M;G0M9F%M:6QY.B!!4DE!3#LG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B8C,38P.SPO8CX\+V9O
M;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\
M9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=F;VYT+69A;6EL>3H@05))04P[)R!S:7IE/3-$,CX\
M8CXR,#PO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W
M6QE/3-$)V9O;G0M9F%M:6QY.B!!4DE!
M3#LG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B8C,38P.R8C,38P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-
M"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$
M)V9O;G0M9F%M:6QY.B!!4DE!3#LG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B0\+V(^/"]F;VYT
M/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H="!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O
M;G0@3H@05))
M04P[)R!S:7IE/3-$,CX\8CXF(S$V,#LF(S$V,#L\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^
M#0H\+W1R/@T*/'1R(&)G8V]L;W(],T0C8V-E969F/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1'1O6QE/3-$)W1E>'0M:6YD96YT.B`M,65M.R!M87)G:6XM
M;&5F=#H@,F5M.RF4],T0Q/B8C,38P.R8C,38P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=F
M;VYT+69A;6EL>3H@05))04P[)R!S:7IE/3-$,CX\8CXF(S$V,#L\+V(^/"]F
M;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H="!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^
M/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)V9O
M;G0M9F%M:6QY.B!!4DE!3#LG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B0\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO
M=&0^#0H\=&0@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H="!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@
M3H@05))04P[
M)R!S:7IE/3-$,CX\8CXF(S$V,#LF(S$V,#L\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\
M+W1R/@T*/'1R/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1'1O6QE/3-$)W1E
M>'0M:6YD96YT.B`M,65M.R!M87)G:6XM;&5F=#H@,F5M.RF4],T0Q/B8C,38P.R8C,38P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=F;VYT+69A;6EL>3H@05))04P[
M)R!S:7IE/3-$,CX\8CXF(S$V,#L\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@86QI
M9VX],T1R:6=H="!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@3H@05))04P[)R!S:7IE/3-$,CX\8CXI
M)B,Q-C`[/"]B/CPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\
M9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(S$V,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@3H@05))04P[)R!S:7IE/3-$,CX\8CXR,RXX,CPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-
M"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)V9O;G0M9F%M:6QY.B!!4DE!3#LG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B8C,38P
M.R8C,38P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CPO='(^#0H\='(^#0H\=&0@8V]L
MF4],T0Q("\^/"]T9#X-
M"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)V-O;&]R.B`C9F9F
M9F9F.RF4],T0Q
M('=I9'1H/3-$,"`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT
M('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C,38P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(S$V,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V
M86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C,38P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]T6QE/3-$)V9O;G0M
M9F%M:6QY.B!!4DE!3#LG('-I>F4],T0R/DYO;G9E65A6QE/3-$)V9O;G0M9F%M:6QY.B!!4DE!3#LG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/C,S/"]B
M/CPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N
M;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@3H@05))04P[)R!S:7IE/3-$,CX\8CXR,RXY,SPO
M8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)V9O;G0M9F%M:6QY.B!!4DE!3#LG('-I
M>F4],T0R/CQB/B8C,38P.R8C,38P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CPO='(^
M#0H\='(^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C
M,38P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S
M:7IE/3-$,3XF(S$V,#LF(S$V,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT^/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)V-O;&]R.B`C-3DU.34Y.RF4],T0S("\^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V
M86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)V-O;&]R.B`C9F9F9F9F.RF4],T0S('=I9'1H
M/3-$,"`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4]
M,T0Q/B8C,38P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\
M9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(S$V,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C,38P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]TF5D
M(&-O;7!E;G-A=&EO;B!C;W-T2X@5&AE6QE/3-$)VUA#LG(&%L:6=N/3-$:G5S=&EF>3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=F
M;VYT+69A;6EL>3H@05))04P[)R!S:7IE/3-$,CY$=7)I;F2!O8V-U
M6QE/3-$)V9O;G0M#L@;6%R9VEN+71O3H@05))04P[)R!S:7IE/3-$,3X\
M8CXH26X@;6EL;&EO;G,L(&5X8V5P="!F86ER('9A;'5EF4],T0Q/B8C
M,38P.R8C,38P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D(&-O;'-P86X],T0R(&%L:6=N
M/3-$6QE/3-$)V9O;G0M
M9F%M:6QY.B!!4DE!3#LG('-I>F4],T0Q/CQB/C(P,3$\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO
M=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C,38P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE
M/3-$,3XF(S$V,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!C;VQS3H@05))04P[)R!S:7IE/3-$,3X\8CXR,#$P/"]B/CPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(S$V
M,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CPO='(^#0H\='(^#0H\=&0@8V]LF4],T0Q("\^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI
M9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)V-O;&]R.B`C9F9F9F9F.RF4],T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$
M,"`O/CPO=&0^#0H\+W1R/@T*/'1R/@T*/'1D/B8C,38P.SPO=&0^#0H\=&0@
M8V]LF4],T0Q/B8C,38P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(S$V,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT
M9"!C;VQSF4],T0Q/B8C,38P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]T3H@05))04P[)R!S:7IE/3-$,CXF(S$V,#LF(S$V
M,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)V9O;G0M9F%M:6QY.B!!4DE!3#LG('-I>F4],T0R
M/B8C,38P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D(&%L:6=N/3-$6QE/3-$)V9O;G0M9F%M:6QY.B!!4DE!3#LG
M('-I>F4],T0R/C$P,#PO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)W1E
M>'0M:6YD96YT.B`M,65M.R!M87)G:6XM;&5F=#H@,65M.R6QE/3-$)V9O;G0M9F%M:6QY.B!!4DE!3#LG('-I>F4],T0R/B0\+V9O
M;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\
M9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=F;VYT+69A;6EL>3H@05))04P[)R!S:7IE/3-$,CXR
M,BXQ-SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`]
M,T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C,38P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=F;VYT+69A;6EL
M>3H@05))04P[)R!S:7IE/3-$,CXD/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@86QI9VX]
M,T1R:6=H="!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE
M/3-$)V9O;G0M9F%M:6QY.B!!4DE!3#LG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C,38P.R8C,38P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]T6QE/3-$)V9O;G0M9F%M:6QY.B!!4DE!3#LG('-I>F4],T0Q
M/CQB/E-H87)E9"!097)F;W)M86YC92!3=&]C:R!!=V%R9',\+V(^/"]F;VYT
M/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C
M,38P.R8C,38P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D(&-O;'-P86X],T0R('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(S$V,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-
M"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q
M/B8C,38P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D(&-O;'-P86X],T0R('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(S$V,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT
M9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)V9O;G0M9F%M:6QY.B!!
M4DE!3#LG('-I>F4],T0R/D%W87)DF4],T0Q/B8C,38P
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M87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C,38P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=F;VYT+69A
M;6EL>3H@05))04P[)R!S:7IE/3-$,CXF(S$V,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT
M9"!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS
M1"=F;VYT+69A;6EL>3H@05))04P[)R!S:7IE/3-$,CXQ,CPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@
M6QE/3-$)W1E>'0M:6YD96YT.B`M,65M.R!M87)G:6XM
M;&5F=#H@,65M.R6QE/3-$)V9O;G0M9F%M:6QY.B!!
M4DE!3#LG('-I>F4],T0R/B0\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!A;&EG;CTS1')I
M9VAT('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=F;VYT+69A;6EL
M>3H@05))04P[)R!S:7IE/3-$,CXF(S$V,#LF(S$V,#LR,BXU-CPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O
M;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C,38P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=F;VYT+69A;6EL>3H@05))04P[)R!S
M:7IE/3-$,CXD/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H="!V86QI
M9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE
M/3-$)V9O;G0M9F%M:6QY.B!!4DE!3#LG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C,38P.R8C,38P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]T6QE/3-$)VUA#LG(&%L:6=N/3-$:G5S=&EF>3X\9F]N="!S
M='EL93TS1"=F;VYT+69A;6EL>3H@05))04P[)R!S:7IE/3-$,CY&;VQL;W=I
M;FF4Z(#$R#L@;6%R9VEN+6)O='1O;3H@,'!X.R6QE/3-$)V)O3H@05))04P[
M)R!S:7IE/3-$,3X\8CXH26X@;6EL;&EO;G,I/"]B/CPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(S$V,#LF(S$V
M,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!C;VQSF4],T0Q/B8C,38P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(S$V,#L\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!C;VQSF4],T0Q/B8C,38P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(S$V,#L\+V9O
M;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!C;VQSF4],T0Q/B8C,38P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]T
MF4],T0Q("\^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&AR('-T
M>6QE/3-$)V-O;&]R.B`C9F9F9F9F.RF4],T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$,"`O/CPO=&0^#0H\+W1R/@T*
M/'1R/@T*/'1D/B8C,38P.SPO=&0^#0H\=&0@8V]LF4],T0Q/B8C,38P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D(&-O;'-P86X],T0R(&%L:6=N/3-$6QE/3-$)V9O;G0M9F%M:6QY.B!!
M4DE!3#LG('-I>F4],T0Q/CQB/C(P,3$\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@
M=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C,38P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(S$V
M,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!C;VQS3H@
M05))04P[)R!S:7IE/3-$,3X\8CXR,#$P/"]B/CPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(S$V,#L\+V9O;G0^
M/"]T9#X-"CPO='(^#0H\='(^#0H\=&0^)B,Q-C`[/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!C;VQS
M3H@05))04P[)R!S:7IE/3-$,CY4
M;W1A;"!V97-T+61A=&4@9F%IF4],T0Q/B8C,38P.R8C,38P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=F;VYT+69A;6EL>3H@05))
M04P[)R!S:7IE/3-$,CX\8CXD/"]B/CPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D(&%L:6=N
M/3-$6QE/3-$)V9O;G0M
M9F%M:6QY.B!!4DE!3#LG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B8C,38P.R8C,38P.S$L.33H@05))04P[)R!S
M:7IE/3-$,CXF(S$V,#LF(S$V,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)V9O;G0M9F%M:6QY
M.B!!4DE!3#LG('-I>F4],T0R/B0\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!A;&EG;CTS
M1')I9VAT('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=F;VYT+69A
M;6EL>3H@05))04P[)R!S:7IE/3-$,CXF(S$V,#LF(S$V,#LQ+#,U.#PO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^
M/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)W1E>'0M:6YD96YT.B`M,65M.R!M
M87)G:6XM;&5F=#H@,65M.R6QE/3-$)V9O;G0M9F%M:6QY.B!!4DE!3#LG('-I
M>F4],T0R/CQB/B0\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H
M="!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)V9O;G0M9F%M:6QY.B!!4DE!3#LG
M('-I>F4],T0R/C(X.3PO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C,38P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=F
M;VYT+69A;6EL>3H@05))04P[)R!S:7IE/3-$,CXD/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\
M=&0@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H="!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@3H@05))04P[)R!S:7IE/3-$,CXF(S$V
M,#LF(S$V,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CPO='(^#0H\+W1A8FQE/@T*/&AR('-T
M>6QE/3-$)V-O;&]R.B`C,#`P,#`P.RF4],T0Q("\^#0H\3H@05))04P[)R!S:7IE/3-$,CX\8CY3=&]C:R!/"!M:6QL:6]N+"!Z97)O+"!A;F0@;VYE)B,Q-C`[;6EL;&EO
M;B!S=&]C:R!O65A2X\+V9O;G0^/"]P/@T*/'`@#LG/B8C,38P.SPO6QE/3-$)VUA#L@;6%R9VEN+6)O='1O;3H@,'!X.R6QE/3-$)V9O;G0M9F%M:6QY.B!!4DE!3#LG('-I>F4],T0R
M/D5M65E('-T;V-K(&]P=&EO;G,@86-T:79I='D@9'5R:6YG(#(P,3(@
M=V%S(&%S(&9O;&QO=W,Z/"]F;VYT/CPO6QE/3-$)V9O;G0M
M#L@;6%R9VEN+71OF4],T0Q/B8C,38P.R8C,38P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D(&-O;'-P86X],T0R(&%L:6=N/3-$6QE/3-$)V9O;G0M9F%M:6QY.B!!4DE!3#LG('-I>F4]
M,T0Q/CQB/E-H87)EF4],T0Q/B8C,38P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D(&-O;'-P86X],T0R(&%L:6=N/3-$6QE/3-$)V9O
M;G0M9F%M:6QY.B!!4DE!3#LG('-I>F4],T0Q/CQB/E=E:6=H=&5D/"]B/CPO
M9F]N=#X\+W`^#0H\#LG(&%L:6=N/3-$6QE/3-$
M)V9O;G0M9F%M:6QY.B!!4DE!3#LG('-I>F4],T0Q/CQB/D5X97)C:7-E)B,Q
M-C`[4')I8V4\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPOF4],T0Q/B8C,38P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(S$V,#L\+V9O;G0^
M/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!C;VQS6QE/3-$)VUA#L@;6%R9VEN
M+6)O='1O;3H@,'!X.R3H@05))04P[)R!S:7IE/3-$,3X\8CY796EG:'1E9#PO8CX\
M+V9O;G0^/"]P/@T*/'`@6QE/3-$
M)V9O;G0M9F%M:6QY.B!!4DE!3#LG('-I>F4],T0Q/CQB/D%V97)A9V4\+V(^
M/"]F;VYT/CPO6QE/3-$)VUA#L@;6%R
M9VEN+6)O='1O;3H@,'!X.R3H@05))04P[)R!S:7IE/3-$,3X\8CY296UA:6YI;F6QE/3-$)VUA#L@
M;6%R9VEN+6)O='1O;3H@,'!X.R3H@05))04P[)R!S:7IE/3-$,3X\8CY#;VYT6QE/3-$)V9O;G0M9F%M:6QY.B!!4DE!3#LG('-I>F4],T0Q/CQB/E1E
MF4],T0Q/B8C,38P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(S$V,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-
M"CQT9"!C;VQS6QE/3-$)VUA#L@;6%R9VEN+6)O='1O
M;3H@,'!X.R3H@05))04P[)R!S:7IE/3-$,3X\8CY!9V=R96=A=&4\+V(^/"]F;VYT
M/CPO6QE/3-$)VUA#L@;6%R9VEN+6)O
M='1O;3H@,'!X.R3H@05))04P[)R!S:7IE/3-$,3X\8CY);G1R:6YS:6,\+V(^/"]F
M;VYT/CPO6QE/3-$)VUA#L@;6%R9VEN
M+6)O='1O;3H@,7!X.R3H@05))04P[)R!S:7IE/3-$,3X\8CY686QU93PO8CX\+V9O
M;G0^/"]P/@T*/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)V-O;&]R
M.B`C,#`P,#`P.RF4],T0Q/B8C,38P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(S$V,#LF(S$V
M,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!C;VQS3H@
M05))04P[)R!S:7IE/3-$,3X\8CXH26XF(S$V,#MM:6QL:6]NF4],T0Q
M/B8C,38P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N
M="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(S$V,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!C;VQSF4],T0Q/B8C
M,38P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S
M:7IE/3-$,3XF(S$V,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!C;VQS3H@05))04P[)R!S:7IE/3-$,3X\8CXH665A6QE/3-$)V9O;G0M9F%M:6QY.B!!4DE!
M3#LG('-I>F4],T0R/D)A;&%N8V4L($IU;'DF(S$V,#LQ+"`R,#$Q/"]F;VYT
M/CPOF4]
M,T0Q/B8C,38P.R8C,38P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=F;VYT+69A;6EL>3H@05))04P[)R!S:7IE
M/3-$,CX\8CXF(S$V,#L\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@86QI9VX],T1R
M:6=H="!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@3H@05))04P[)R!S:7IE/3-$,CX\8CXF(S$V,#LF
M(S$V,#L\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF
M;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C,38P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=F;VYT+69A;6EL>3H@05))04P[)R!S
M:7IE/3-$,CX\8CXD/"]B/CPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D(&%L:6=N/3-$6QE/3-$)V9O;G0M9F%M:6QY
M.B!!4DE!3#LG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/C(S+C(Q/"]B/CPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C,38P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF
M(S$V,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@
MF4],T0Q/B8C,38P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(S$V,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T
M9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)W1E>'0M:6YD96YT.B`M,65M.R!M87)G:6XM;&5F=#H@
M,F5M.R6QE/3-$)V9O;G0M9F%M:6QY.B!!4DE!3#LG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/C8\
M+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)A3H@05))04P[)R!S
M:7IE/3-$,CX\8CXF(S$V,#LF(S$V,#L\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@
M=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C,38P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=F;VYT
M+69A;6EL>3H@05))04P[)R!S:7IE/3-$,CX\8CXD/"]B/CPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D(&%L:6=N/3-$6QE/3-$)V9O;G0M9F%M:6QY.B!!4DE!3#LG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/CDN-#$\
M+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)A3H@05))04P[)R!S
M:7IE/3-$,CX\8CXF(S$V,#LF(S$V,#L\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@
M=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C,38P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(S$V
M,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C,38P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(S$V,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-
M"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q
M/B8C,38P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N
M="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(S$V,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CPO='(^#0H\='(@8F=C
M;VQO3H@05))04P[)R!S:7IE/3-$,CY%>&5R
M8VES960\+V9O;G0^/"]P/@T*/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^
M/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)V9O;G0M9F%M:6QY.B!!
M4DE!3#LG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B8C,38P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT
M9"!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS
M1"=F;VYT+69A;6EL>3H@05))04P[)R!S:7IE/3-$,CX\8CXH-C0\+V(^/"]F
M;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)A3H@05))04P[)R!S:7IE/3-$
M,CX\8CXI)B,Q-C`[/"]B/CPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(S$V,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V
M86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@3H@05))04P[)R!S:7IE/3-$,CX\8CXF(S$V,#LF(S$V,#LR,BXR
M,#PO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)V9O;G0M9F%M:6QY.B!!4DE!3#LG
M('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B8C,38P.R8C,38P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT
M9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C
M,38P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S
M:7IE/3-$,3XF(S$V,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T
M;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C,38P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(S$V,#L\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C,38P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]T6QE/3-$)V9O;G0M
M9F%M:6QY.B!!4DE!3#LG('-I>F4],T0R/D-A;F-E;&5D/"]F;VYT/CPOF4],T0Q/B8C
M,38P.R8C,38P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\
M9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=F;VYT+69A;6EL>3H@05))04P[)R!S:7IE/3-$,CX\
M8CXF(S$V,#L\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H="!V
M86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)V9O;G0M9F%M:6QY.B!!4DE!3#LG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB
M/B0\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H="!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@3H@05))04P[)R!S:7IE/3-$,CX\8CXF(S$V,#LF(S$V,#L\+V(^
M/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4]
M,T0Q/B8C,38P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\
M9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(S$V,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C,38P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF
M(S$V,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@
MF4],T0Q/B8C,38P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(S$V,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T
M9#X-"CPO='(^#0H\='(^#0H\=&0@8V]LF4],T0Q("\^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^
M/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)V-O;&]R.B`C9F9F9F9F.RF4],T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$,"`O/CPO=&0^#0H\
M=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C,38P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF
M(S$V,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@
MF4],T0Q/B8C,38P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(S$V,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T
M9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4]
M,T0Q/B8C,38P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\
M9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(S$V,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C,38P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF
M(S$V,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@
M6QE/3-$
M)W1E>'0M:6YD96YT.B`M,65M.R!M87)G:6XM;&5F=#H@,65M.RF4],T0Q/B8C,38P.R8C,38P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS
M1"=F;VYT+69A;6EL>3H@05))04P[)R!S:7IE/3-$,CX\8CXF(S$V,#L\+V(^
M/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H="!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T
M;VT^/&9O;G0@3H@
M05))04P[)R!S:7IE/3-$,CX\8CXF(S$V,#LF(S$V,#L\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO
M=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C,38P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL
M93TS1"=F;VYT+69A;6EL>3H@05))04P[)R!S:7IE/3-$,CX\8CXD/"]B/CPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D(&%L:6=N/3-$6QE/3-$)V9O;G0M9F%M:6QY.B!!4DE!3#LG('-I>F4],T0R
M/CQB/C$X+C8Y/"]B/CPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)V9O;G0M9F%M:6QY.B!!4DE!3#LG('-I
M>F4],T0R/CQB/C(N,34\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$
M8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)A3H@05))04P[)R!S:7IE/3-$,CX\8CXF(S$V,#LF(S$V,#L\+V(^/"]F
M;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q
M/B8C,38P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N
M="!S='EL93TS1"=F;VYT+69A;6EL>3H@05))04P[)R!S:7IE/3-$,CX\8CXD
M/"]B/CPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D(&%L:6=N/3-$6QE/3-$)V9O;G0M9F%M:6QY.B!!4DE!3#LG('-I
M>F4],T0R/CQB/B8C,38P.R8C,38P.S(V-#PO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT
M9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE
M/3-$)V9O;G0M9F%M:6QY.B!!4DE!3#LG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B8C,38P.R8C
M,38P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CPO='(^#0H\='(^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N
M/3-$=&]P/@T*/'`@3H@05))
M04P[)R!S:7IE/3-$,CY%>&5R8VES86)L92P@2G5N928C,38P.S,P+"`R,#$R
M/"]F;VYT/CPOF4],T0Q/B8C,38P.R8C,38P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=F;VYT+69A;6EL>3H@05))04P[
M)R!S:7IE/3-$,CX\8CXF(S$V,#L\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@86QI
M9VX],T1R:6=H="!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@3H@05))04P[)R!S:7IE/3-$,CX\8CXF
M(S$V,#LF(S$V,#L\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T
M=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C,38P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=F;VYT+69A;6EL>3H@05))
M04P[)R!S:7IE/3-$,CX\8CXD/"]B/CPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D(&%L:6=N
M/3-$6QE/3-$)V9O;G0M
M9F%M:6QY.B!!4DE!3#LG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/C(P+C6QE/3-$
M)V9O;G0M9F%M:6QY.B!!4DE!3#LG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/C`N.#,\+V(^/"]F
M;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)A3H@05))04P[)R!S:7IE/3-$
M,CX\8CXF(S$V,#LF(S$V,#L\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N
M/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C,38P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=F;VYT+69A;6EL
M>3H@05))04P[)R!S:7IE/3-$,CX\8CXD/"]B/CPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M(&%L:6=N/3-$6QE/3-$
M)V9O;G0M9F%M:6QY.B!!4DE!3#LG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/C$W.#PO8CX\+V9O
M;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)V9O;G0M9F%M:6QY.B!!4DE!3#LG('-I>F4],T0R
M/CQB/B8C,38P.R8C,38P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CPO='(^#0H\+W1A
M8FQE/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)V-O;&]R.B`C,#`P,#`P.RF4],T0Q("\^#0H\&EM
M871E;'D@&5R
M8VES92!P&5R8VES92!P#L@;6%R9VEN+6)O
M='1O;3H@,'!X.R6QE/3-$)V9O
M;G0M9F%M:6QY.B!!4DE!3#LG('-I>F4],T0R/D1U6QE/3-$
M)V9O;G0M#L@;6%R9VEN+71O6QE/3-$)V9O;G0M9F%M:6QY.B!!4DE!3#LG('-I>F4],T0Q/CQB
M/BA);B!M:6QL:6]NF4],T0Q/B8C,38P.R8C,38P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D(&-O;'-P86X],T0R('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE
M/3-$,3XF(S$V,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^
M/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C,38P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D(&-O;'-P86X],T0R('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$
M,3XF(S$V,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O
M;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C,38P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M(&-O;'-P86X],T0R('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF
M(S$V,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@
M6QE/3-$)V-O
M;&]R.B`C,#`P,#`P.RF4],T0Q/B8C,38P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(S$V,#LF(S$V,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-
M"CQT9"!C;VQS3H@05))04P[)R!S:7IE/3-$
M,3X\8CXR,#$R/"]B/CPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(S$V,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI
M9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C,38P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D(&-O;'-P86X],T0R(&%L:6=N/3-$6QE/3-$)V9O;G0M9F%M:6QY.B!!4DE!3#LG('-I>F4]
M,T0Q/CQB/C(P,3`\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T
M=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C,38P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]T6QE/3-$
M)V9O;G0M9F%M:6QY.B!!4DE!3#LG('-I>F4],T0R/E1O=&%L(&EN=')I;G-I
M8R!V86QU92!O9B!S=&]C:R!O3H@05))04P[
M)R!S:7IE/3-$,CX\8CXT-38\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N
M/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)A3H@05))04P[)R!S:7IE/3-$,CX\8CXF(S$V,#LF(S$V,#L\+V(^
M/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4]
M,T0Q/B8C,38P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\
M9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=F;VYT+69A;6EL>3H@05))04P[)R!S:7IE/3-$,CXD
M/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H="!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T
M;VT^/&9O;G0@3H@05))04P[
M)R!S:7IE/3-$,CXF(S$V,#LF(S$V,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI
M9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)V9O;G0M9F%M
M:6QY.B!!4DE!3#LG('-I>F4],T0R/B0\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!A;&EG
M;CTS1')I9VAT('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=F;VYT
M+69A;6EL>3H@05))04P[)R!S:7IE/3-$,CXS-C4\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT
M9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE
M/3-$)V9O;G0M9F%M:6QY.B!!4DE!3#LG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C,38P.R8C,38P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]T6QE/3-$)V9O;G0M9F%M:6QY.B!!4DE!3#LG('-I
M>F4],T0R/D-AF4],T0Q/B8C,38P.R8C,38P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=F;VYT+69A;6EL>3H@05))
M04P[)R!S:7IE/3-$,CX\8CXD/"]B/CPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D(&%L:6=N
M/3-$6QE/3-$)V9O;G0M
M9F%M:6QY.B!!4DE!3#LG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B8C,38P.R8C,38P.S$L-#$P
M/"]B/CPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`]
M,T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@3H@05))04P[)R!S
M:7IE/3-$,CXF(S$V,#LF(S$V,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)V9O;G0M9F%M:6QY
M.B!!4DE!3#LG('-I>F4],T0R/B0\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!A;&EG;CTS
M1')I9VAT('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=F;VYT+69A
M;6EL>3H@05))04P[)R!S:7IE/3-$,CXF(S$V,#LF(S$V,#LQ+#@S.3PO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^
M/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)W1E
M>'0M:6YD96YT.B`M,65M.R!M87)G:6XM;&5F=#H@,65M.RF4]
M,T0Q/B8C,38P.R8C,38P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=F;VYT+69A;6EL>3H@05))04P[)R!S:7IE
M/3-$,CX\8CXD/"]B/CPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D(&%L:6=N/3-$6QE/3-$)V9O;G0M9F%M:6QY.B!!
M4DE!3#LG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/C$V,#PO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V
M86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$
M)V9O;G0M9F%M:6QY.B!!4DE!3#LG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B8C,38P.R8C,38P
M.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@
M6QE/3-$)V9O;G0M9F%M:6QY.B!!4DE!3#LG('-I>F4]
M,T0R/B0\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=F;VYT+69A;6EL>3H@05))04P[)R!S
M:7IE/3-$,CXW-SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N
M;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C,38P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=F;VYT
M+69A;6EL>3H@05))04P[)R!S:7IE/3-$,CXD/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@
M86QI9VX],T1R:6=H="!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE
M/3-$)V-O;&]R.B`C,#`P,#`P.RF4],T0Q("\^#0H\3H@05))04P[)R!S:7IE/3-$,CX\8CY%;7!L;WEE92!3=&]C:R!0
M=7)C:&%S92!0;&%N/"]B/CPO9F]N=#X\+W`^#0H\65E2!E;7!L;WEE97,@870@=&AR964M;6]N=&@@:6YT97)V86QS
M(&%T(#DP)2!O9B!T:&4@9F%I65E&-E961I;F65E#LG/B8C,38P.SPO
MF4],T0Q/B8C,38P.R8C,38P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D(&-O;'-P
M86X],T0R('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(S$V,#L\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C,38P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D(&-O;'-P86X]
M,T0R('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(S$V,#L\+V9O
M;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C,38P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D(&-O;'-P86X],T0R
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(S$V,#L\+V9O;G0^
M/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)V-O;&]R.B`C,#`P,#`P
M.R6QE/3-$)V9O
M;G0M9F%M:6QY.B!!4DE!3#LG('-I>F4],T0Q/CQB/EEE87(@16YD960@2G5N
M928C,38P.S,P+#PO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T
M;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C,38P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D(&-O;'-P86X],T0R(&%L:6=N/3-$6QE/3-$)V9O;G0M9F%M:6QY.B!!4DE!3#LG('-I>F4],T0Q
M/CQB/C(P,3$\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M
M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C,38P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(S$V,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-
M"CQT9"!C;VQS3H@05))04P[)R!S:7IE/3-$
M,3X\8CXR,#$P/"]B/CPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(S$V,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CPO='(^#0H\
M='(^#0H\=&0^)B,Q-C`[/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!C;VQS3H@05))04P[)R!S:7IE/3-$,CY3:&%R97,@F4],T0Q/B8C,38P.R8C,38P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=F;VYT+69A;6EL>3H@05))04P[
M)R!S:7IE/3-$,CX\8CXF(S$V,#L\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@86QI
M9VX],T1R:6=H="!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@3H@05))04P[)R!S:7IE/3-$,CX\8CXF
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M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q
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M87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)W1E>'0M:6YD
M96YT.B`M,65M.R!M87)G:6XM;&5F=#H@,65M.R6QE/3-$)V9O;G0M9F%M:6QY
M.B!!4DE!3#LG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B0\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@
M86QI9VX],T1R:6=H="!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@3H@05))
M04P[)R!S:7IE/3-$,CX\8CXF(S$V,#LF(S$V,#L\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^
M#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C,38P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS
M1"=F;VYT+69A;6EL>3H@05))04P[)R!S:7IE/3-$,CXD/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^
M#0H\=&0@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H="!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)V9O;G0M9F%M:6QY.B!!4DE!
M3#LG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C,38P.R8C,38P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(S$V,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T
M9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)V9O
M;G0M9F%M:6QY.B!!4DE!3#LG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C,38P.R8C,38P.S(S+C3H@05))04P[)R!S:7IE
M/3-$,CXF(S$V,#LF(S$V,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CPO='(^#0H\+W1A8FQE
M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)V-O;&]R.B`C,#`P,#`P.RF4],T0Q("\^#0H\6QE/3-$)VUA#LG/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)V9O;G0M9F%M:6QY.B!!4DE!3#LG
M('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/E-A=FEN9W,@4&QA;CPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]P/@T*/'`@
M#L@;6%R9VEN+6)O='1O;3H@,'!X
M.R6QE/3-$)V9O;G0M9F%M:6QY
M.B!!4DE!3#LG('-I>F4],T0R/E=E(&AA=F4@82!S879I;F=S('!L86X@:6X@
M=&AE(%4N4RX@=&AA="!Q=6%L:69I97,@=6YD97(@4V5C=&EO;B8C,38P.S0P
M,2AK*2!O9B!T:&4@26YT97)N86P@4F5V96YU92!#;V1E+"!A;F0@82!N=6UB
M97(@;V8@65E&EM=6T@8V]N=')I8G5T:6]N(&]F(#,E
M(&]F(&$@3X-"CPO:'1M;#X-"@T*+2TM
M+2TM/5].97AT4&%R=%\R.6$R9CDV95\T,&9C7S1C,F%?8C$Y95\U-3(X,S=B
M,#$T93(-"D-O;G1E;G0M3&]C871I;VXZ(&9I;&4Z+R\O0SHO,CEA,F8Y-F5?
M-#!F8U\T8S)A7V(Q.65?-34R.#,W8C`Q-&4R+U=O'0O:'1M;#L@8VAA7!E(&-O;G1E;G0],T0G=&5X="]H=&UL.R!C:&%R
M#(P,30[#0I314=-14Y4($E.1D]234%424].($%.1"!'14]'
M4D%02$E#($1!5$$\+W4^/"]F;VYT/CPO6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)
M3BU43U`Z(#$R"3X-"CQF;VYT('-T
M>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"2!B92!A;&QO8V%T960@86UO;F2!B96YE9FEC:6%L#0IA8W1I=FET>2X@06QL;V-A=&5D(&-O2!I;F-L=61E('1H;W-E(')E;&%T:6YG('1O(&1E=F5L;W!M96YT#0IA;F0@
M;6%R:V5T:6YG(&]F('!R;V1U8W1S(&%N9"!S97)V:6-E2!B87-E9"!O;B!T:&4@6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU4
M3U`Z(#$R"65E('-E=F5R86YC92X\+V9O;G0^/"]P/@T*/'`@#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X)R!A;&EG
M;CTS1&IUF4],T0R/E=E(&AA=F4@3X-"CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#$R"$$P.R9A;7`[(%=I;F1O=W,@3&EV90T*1&EV:7-I;VX@
M;V9F97)I;F=S(&-O;G-I3X-"CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"#(P,3,[(%-E#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X)R!A;&EG;CTS1&IUF4],T0R
M/CQB/D]N;&EN92!397)V:6-E#(P,3,[($]N
M;&EN92!397)V:6-E#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X
M)R!A;&EG;CTS1&IUF4],T0R/CQB/DUI8W)O#(P,3,[($UI8W)O#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X)R!A;&EG;CTS
M1&IUF4],T0R/CQB/D5N=&5R=&%I;FUE;G0@86YD#0I$979I8V5S($1I=FES
M:6]N/"]B/B`F(W@R,#$S.R!%;G1E"`S-C`@96YT97)T
M86EN;65N="!P;&%T9F]R;2P@:6YC;'5D:6YG#0I+:6YE8W0@9F]R(%AB;W@@
M,S8P+"!3:WEP92P@86YD(%=I;F1O=W,@4&AO;F4N/"]F;VYT/CPO6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#$R#L@1D].5"U325I%.B`Q3X-"CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"#L@1D].5"U325I%.B`Q,G!X)SX-
M"B8C>$$P.SPOF4],T0Q/CQB
M/BA);B!M:6QL:6]NF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;2!C;VQS6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;2!C;VQS6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;2!C;VQS6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/CQB/E)E=F5N=64\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@
M=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQS6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@
M,65M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4]
M,T0R/E=I;F1O=W,F(WA!,#LF86UP.R!7:6YD;W=S($QI=F4-"D1I=FES:6]N
M/"]F;VYT/CPOF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG
M('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B0\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$
M8F]T=&]M(&%L:6=N/3-$F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P
M.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^
M/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-
M05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,65M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@
M05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/E-E6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R
M/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG
M;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O
M;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/C$U+#$R,3PO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R
M87`^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
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M87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&
M3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T
M>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG
M('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,65M)SX\
M9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/DUI
M8W)O6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q
M/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N
M="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I
M9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T
M9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/C$Y+#4R-3PO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O
M;G0@6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T
M9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P
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M=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/CQB/BDF(WA!,#L\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^
M#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS
M1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT
M('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R
M/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI
M9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/C4V.3PO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!S:7IE/3-$
M,2!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T
M=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE
M9G0@6QE
M/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0Q(&YO
MF4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q('=I
M9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\+W1R/@T*/'1R
M(&)G8V]L;W(],T0C0T-%149&/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1'1O6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,F5M)SX\
M9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/D-O
M;G-O;&ED871E9#PO9F]N=#X\+W`^#0H\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#LF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-
M"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO
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M87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R
M/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]TF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P
M.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH
M6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!S:7IE/3-$
M,R!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T
M=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE
M9G0@6QE
M/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0S(&YO
MF4],T0S(&YOF4],T0S('=I
M9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\+W1R/@T*/"]T
M86)L93X-"CQP('-T>6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#!P>#L@34%21TE.+4)/
M5%1/33H@,'!X.R!&3TY4+5-)6D4Z(#$R6QE/3-$)T)/4D1%4BU#3TQ,05!313H@8V]L;&%P6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF
M(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@
MF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!
M,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CPO='(^#0H\='(^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M
M(&-O;'-P86X],T0Q,CX-"CQHF4],T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D
M92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\+W1R/@T*/'1R/@T*/'1D/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@8V]LF4],T0Q
M/CQB/EEE87(@16YD960@2G5N928C>$$P.S,P+#PO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-
M"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQS6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@
M,65M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4]
M,T0R/E=I;F1O=W,F(WA!,#LF86UP.R!7:6YD;W=S($QI=F4-"D1I=FES:6]N
M/"]F;VYT/CPOF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG
M('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B0\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$
M8F]T=&]M(&%L:6=N/3-$F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P
M.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^
M/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-
M05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,65M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@
M05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/E-E6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO
M8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!
M34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T
M9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S
M='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B@X+#$R
M,CPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI
M9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE
M/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^
M/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/B@R+#,Y-3PO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$
M14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,65M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&
M3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/DUI8W)O6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4
M+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C
M>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\
M9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/C$R+#$P.3PO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@
M05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4]
M,T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\
M9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS
M1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]TF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))
M04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V
M86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&
M3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B@U+#4S-3PO8CX\+V9O
M;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T
M;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!
M,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/B@S
M+#F4],T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N
M;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M
M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C
M,#`P,#`P)R!S:7IE/3-$,2!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\
M=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F
M9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I
M9VAT('-I>F4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q(&YO6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.S(Q+#6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4]
M,T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\
M9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B0\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H
M=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R
M/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.S(T+#`Y.#PO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#LF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT
M9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^#0H\:'(@F4],T0S('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N
M;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M
M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C
M-3DU.34Y)R!S:7IE/3-$,R!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\
M=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F
M9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I
M9VAT('-I>F4],T0S(&YOF4],T0S(&YO3X-"CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"2!A='1R:6)U=&5D('1O(&$@#L@34%2
M1TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X)R!A;&EG;CTS1&IUF4],T0R/E-I9VYI9FEC86YT
M(')E8V]N8VEL:6YG#0II=&5M6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#!P>#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/
M33H@,'!X.R!&3TY4+5-)6D4Z(#$R6QE/3-$)T)/4D1%4BU#3TQ,05!313H@8V]L;&%P6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!
M,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O
M;G0^/"]T9#X-"CPO='(^#0H\='(^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&-O
M;'-P86X],T0Q,CX-"CQHF4],T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O
M/CPO=&0^#0H\+W1R/@T*/'1R/@T*/'1D/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@8V]LF4],T0Q/CQB
M/EEE87(@16YD960@2G5N928C>$$P.S,P+#PO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT
M9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"28C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I
M>F4],T0Q/CQS=7`@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T
M9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]TF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P
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M/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/CQB/BDF(WA!,#L\+V(^/"]F;VYT
M/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S
M='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT
M/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT
M9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/C,Q-#PO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^
M/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI
M9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/C$Q,#PO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!S:7IE/3-$
M,2!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T
M=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE
M9G0@6QE
M/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0Q(&YO
MF4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q('=I
M9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\+W1R/@T*/'1R
M(&)G8V]L;W(],T0C0T-%149&/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1'1O6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,F5M)SX\
M9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/E1O
M=&%L/"]F;VYT/CPOF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))
M04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B0\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N
M/3-$8F]T=&]M(&%L:6=N/3-$F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4
M+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B0\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V
M86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&
M3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.R@T+#(T
M,"D\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@
M05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B0\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B
M;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,
M63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.R@S+#6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0S
M(&YOF4],T0S(&YO
MF4],T0S
M('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L
M:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE
M/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!S:7IE/3-$,R!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D
M92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$
M)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@$$P.SPOF4]
M,T0R/BAA*3PO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1'1O2!I;B!T:&%T(&QI;F4@:71E;2X\+VD^
M/"]F;VYT/CPO6QE
M/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#$R#L@1D].
M5"U325I%.B`Q3X-"CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"2!O=&AE2!T:&4@
M;6%J;W(@9V5O9W)A6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#!P>#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X
M.R!&3TY4+5-)6D4Z(#$R6QE
M/3-$)T)/4D1%4BU#3TQ,05!313H@8V]L;&%P6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O
M;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^
M/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T
M9#X-"CPO='(^#0H\='(^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&-O;'-P86X]
M,T0Q,CX-"CQHF4],T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^
M#0H\+W1R/@T*/'1R/@T*/'1D/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@8V]LF4],T0Q/CQB/EEE87(@
M16YD960@2G5N928C>$$P.S,P+#PO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI
M9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE
M/3-$)U!/4TE424]..B!R96QA=&EV93L@0D]45$]-.B`P+CAE>#L@5D525$E#
M04PM04Q)1TXZ(&)A6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4]
M,T0R/CQB/C,X+#@T-CPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B
M;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@
M05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B0\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B
M;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,
M63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/C,V+#$W,SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
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M6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"F4],T0R/C,Q+#DS-3PO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R
M87`^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O
M/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!S:7IE/3-$,2!N
M;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M
M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@
M6QE/3-$
M)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q(&YO6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&
M3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B0\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT
M9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS
M1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.S8Y
M+#DT,SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`]
M,T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C
M>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]TF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!S:7IE/3-$,R!N
M;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M
M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@
M6QE/3-$
M)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0S(&YOF4],T0S(&YOF4],T0S('=I9'1H
M/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\+W1R/@T*/"]T86)L
M93X-"CQP('-T>6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#!P>#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/
M33H@,'!X.R!&3TY4+5-)6D4Z(#9P>"6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$
M)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#$R"2!S:6=N:69I8V%N="!P#L@
M1D].5"U325I%.B`Q,G!X)SX-"B8C>$$P.SPOF4],T0Q/CQB/BA);B!M:6QL:6]NF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P
M.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQS
MF4],T0Q/B8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q(&YO
MF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQS6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQS6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQS6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&
M5#H@,65M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I
M>F4],T0R/DUI8W)OF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P
M.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N
M="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B0\
M+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&%L:6=N/3-$
MF4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O
M;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT
M9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,65M
M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R
M/E=I;F1O=W,@4$,@;W!E7-T96US/"]F;VYT/CPOF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P
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M9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/C$W+#@R-3PO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)U1%
M6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,65M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL
M93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/E-E6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&
M3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T
M>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R
M/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI
M9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/C$R+#`P-SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3""`S-C`@6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-
M"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/C,L,SF4],T0R/B8C
M>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\
M9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/C,L,#,V/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N
M/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/"]T6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/C(L.3$S/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^
M#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S
M:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T
M;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/C(L-3(X/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T
M=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/"]T6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/C,L-S0Y/"]F;VYT
M/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/B8C
M>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\
M9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/C,L-#F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/"]TF4],T0Q
M(&YOF4]
M,T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@
M=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!S:7IE/3-$,2!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S
M:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE
M/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.S6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))
M04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B0\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T
M;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@
M05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.S8R+#0X-#PO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@
MF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#LF(WA!,#L\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^#0H\:'(@F4]
M,T0S('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@
M=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!S:7IE/3-$,R!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S
M:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE
M/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU
M.34Y)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0S(&YOF4],T0S(&YO3X-"CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F%T:6]N(&%N9"!D97!R96-I
M871I;VX@:7,@:6YC;'5D960@=VET:"!V87)I;W5S(&]T:&5R(&-OF%T:6]N(&%N9`T*9&5P#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@
M,'!X)R!A;&EG;CTS1&IUF4],T0R/DQO;F2!T:&4-"FQO8V%T:6]N(&]F('1H92!C;VYT2!A;F0@=VET:"!C;W5N=')I97,-"F]V97(@
M,3`E(&]F('1H92!T;W1A;"!S:&]W;B!S97!A6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#!P
M>#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X.R!&3TY4+5-)6D4Z(#$R6QE/3-$)T)/4D1%4BU#3TQ,05!313H@8V]L
M;&%P6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q
M/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N
M="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B
M;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S
M:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T
M;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE
M/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CPO='(^#0H\='(^#0H\=&0@=F%L
M:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&-O;'-P86X],T0Q,CX-"CQHF4],T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H
M861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\+W1R/@T*/'1R/@T*/'1D/CPO=&0^
M#0H\=&0@8V]LF4],T0Q/CQB/DIU;F4F(WA!,#LS,"P\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^
M#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQS6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQS6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQS6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M
M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,65M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,
M63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/E5N:71E9"!3=&%T97,\+V9O;G0^/"]P/@T*
M/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/C$T+#`X,3PO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,
M63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B0\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!
M34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/C$X+#6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/C`\+V9O;G0^/"]T
M9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4]
M,T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A
M;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO
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M;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL
M93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF
M;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@
M05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D
M92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q
M/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH
M6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!S:7IE/3-$
M,2!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T
M=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE
M9G0@6QE
M/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0Q(&YO
MF4],T0Q(&YO6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO
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M87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R
M/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]TF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P
M.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH
M6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!S:7IE/3-$
M,R!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T
M=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE
M9G0@6QE
M/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0S(&YO
MF4],T0S(&YOF4],T0S('=I
M9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\+W1R/@T*/"]T
M86)L93X-"CPO9&EV/CQS7!E.B!T97AT+VAT;6P[(&-H87)S970](G5S+6%S8VEI
M(@T*#0H\:'1M;#X-"B`@/&AE860^#0H@("`@/$U%5$$@:'1T'0O:'1M;#L@8VAA7!E/3-$=&5X="]J879A#L@
M34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X)R!A;&EG;CTS1&-E;G1E6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@
M,'!X)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4]
M,T0R/CQB/D%C<75I6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#$R"#(P,4,[66%M;65R)B-X
M,C`Q1#LI+"!A(&QE861I;F#(P,3D[7!E.B!T97AT+VAT;6P[(&-H87)S970](G5S+6%S8VEI
M(@T*#0H\:'1M;#X-"B`@/&AE860^#0H@("`@/$U%5$$@:'1T'0O:'1M;#L@8VAA7!E/3-$=&5X="]J879A2!);F9O'0^/&1I
M=CX-"CQP('-T>6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#!P>#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/
M33H@,'!X)R!A;&EG;CTS1&-E;G1E6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"#L@1D].5"U325I%.B`Q,G!X)SX-"B8C>$$P.SPOF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q(&YO6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQS6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQS6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"F4],T0Q
M/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQS
M6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"$$P.S,P/"]B/CPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF
M(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@
MF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!
M,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O
M;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^
M/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]T6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4]
M,T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O
M;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/CQB/B0\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$
M8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)A6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.S$W+#0P-SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-
M"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C
M>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O
M;G0@F4],T0R/CQB/B0\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\
M=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)A6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM
M3$5&5#H@,65M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG
M('-I>F4],T0R/D=R;W-S('!R;V9I=#PO9F]N=#X\+W`^#0H\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#LF(WA!,#L\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^
M/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q
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M9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P
M.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@
M6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M
M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,65M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS
M1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/DYE="!I;F-O;64\+V9O
M;G0^/"]P/@T*/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P
M.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^
M/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/B8C
M>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T
M;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB
M/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B
M;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"$$P.SQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)U!/4TE424]..B!R96QA=&EV93L@0D]45$]-.B`P+CAE>#L@5D52
M5$E#04PM04Q)1TXZ(&)AF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))
M04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V
M86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&
M3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/C`N-SD\+V(^/"]F;VYT
M/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/CQB
M/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B
M;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B
M;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P
M.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N
M="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B8C
M>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI
M9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG
M('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/C`N-C@\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N
M/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R
M/CQB/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/B@P+C`V/"]B/CPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@
M6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!S:7IE
M/3-$,2!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$
M8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS
M1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0Q
M(&YOF4],T0Q(&YO
MF4],T0Q
M('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L
M:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE
M/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!S:7IE/3-$,2!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D
M92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$
M)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P
M)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q(&YO6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O
M;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^
M/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T
M9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-
M"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CPO
M='(^#0H\='(^#0H\=&0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!C;VQS6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM
M3$5&5#H@,65M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG
M('-I>F4],T0R/E)E=F5N=64\+V9O;G0^/"]P/@T*/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI
M9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P
M.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N
M="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B
M;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&
M3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B0\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT
M9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS
M1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/C$V+#0R.#PO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O
M;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O
M;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'
M24XM3$5&5#H@,65M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))
M04PG('-I>F4],T0R/D=R;W-S('!R;V9I=#PO9F]N=#X\+W`^#0H\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#LF(WA!
M,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/C$S
M+#`U-CPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`]
M,T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R
M/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG
M;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O
M;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/C$S+#8U.3PO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R
M87`^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M
M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,65M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,
M63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/DYE="!I;F-O;64\+V9O;G0^/"]P/@T*/"]T
M9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)U!/4TE424]..B!R96QA=&EV93L@0D]45$]-.B`P+CAE>#L@5D52
M5$E#04PM04Q)1TXZ(&)A6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$
M)U!/4TE424]..B!R96QA=&EV93L@0D]45$]-.B`P+CAE>#L@5D525$E#04PM
M04Q)1TXZ(&)A6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4
M.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,65M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4
M+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/D)AF4],T0R/C`N-C,\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V
M86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q
M/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N
M="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I
M9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S
M:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T
M;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/C`N-S`\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T
M;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&
M3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T
M>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P
M.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N
M="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B
M;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/C`N-S6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS
M1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT
M('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF
M(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@
MF4],T0R
M/C(N-CD\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q(&YO#L@1D].5"U3
M25I%.B`V6QE/3-$)T)/4D1%
M4BU#3TQ,05!313H@8V]L;&%P6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))
M04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQI/DEN8VQU9&5S(&$@9V]O9'=I;&P@:6UP86ER;65N
M="!C:&%R9V4@6QE/3-$)T)/4D1%4BU#3TQ,05!313H@8V]L;&%P6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4
M+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQI/DEN8VQU9&5S(&$@F4],T0R/BAC*3PO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1'1O2!T;R!T:&4-"F%D:G5S=&UE;G0@;V8@;W5R('!R979I;W5S;'D@97-T
M:6UA=&5D(&5F9F5C=&EV92!T87@@&%B;&4@:6YC;VUE+B!);B!A9&1I=&EO;BP@=7!O;B!C;VUP
M;&5T:6]N(&]F(&]U"!R971U"!P"!R971U7!E.B!T97AT+VAT;6P[(&-H87)S
M970](G5S+6%S8VEI(@T*#0H\:'1M;#X-"B`@/&AE860^#0H@("`@/$U%5$$@
M:'1T'0O:'1M
M;#L@8VAA7!E/3-$=&5X="]J879A#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/
M33H@,'!X)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I
M>F4],T0R/CQB/D%C8V]U;G1I;F6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#$R"2!A8V-E#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS
M1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/E!R:6YC:7!L97,@
M;V8-"D-O;G-O;&ED871I;VX\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO6QE/3-$
M)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#$R"2!T#(P,3D['0^/&1I=CX-"CQP('-T>6QE
M/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#$X"#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X
M)R!A;&EG;CTS1&IUF4],T0R/E!R97!A"!R971U#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@
M,'!X)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4]
M,T0R/CQB/D9O#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X
M)R!A;&EG;CTS1&IUF4],T0R/D%S'0^/&1I=CX-"CQP('-T>6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU4
M3U`Z(#$X"3X-
M"CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F5D#0IW:&5N('!E2!H87,-"F]C
M8W5R&5D(&]R(&1E=&5R;6EN86)L92P@86YD
M(&-O;&QE8W1I8FEL:71Y(&ES#0IP2!T87AE0T*3X-"CQF
M;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"&ES=&EN9R!V97)S
M:6]N2!P
M97)I;V0L(&ES(&%L;&]C871E9"!B971W965N(&5X:7-T:6YG#0IP3X-"CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"2!O=F5R('1H92!B:6QL:6YG(&-O=F5R86=E('!E3X-"CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3""`S
M-C`@9V%M:6YG(&%N9"!E;G1E"`S-C`L#0IG86UE0T*2!T
M:&ER9"!P87)T:65S(&9OF5D('=H96X@9V%M97,@87)E(&UA;G5F86-T=7)E9"!B
M>2!T:&4@9V%M90T*#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X)R!A;&EG
M;CTS1&IUF4],T0R/D1I65D+B!3
M96%R8V@-"F%D=F5R=&ES:6YG(')E=F5N=64@:7,@2!T;R!E87)N('1H92!R979E;G5E(&AA
MF5D(&%S('-E2!B87-E9"!O;B!T:&4@;F5G;W1I871E9"!H;W5R;'D@F5D#0IU6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"3X-"CQF;VYT('-T>6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"2!/14US+"!T;R!D#(P
M,40[*3L@8V]S=',@:6YC=7)R960@=&\@6%L=&EE2!O9B!C;VYS=6QT:6YG('-E3PO=&0^#0H@("`@("`@(#QT9"!C;&%S'0^/&1I=CX-"CQP('-T>6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#$X"3X-"CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"2DN#0I4:&4@2!D97!E;F1I;F2!P871C:&5S+`T*;W9E0T*;&EA8FEL:71I97,@
M86YD(&%D:G5S="!T:&4@86UO=6YT#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X)SX\9F]N="!S='EL
M93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/E)E6QE/3-$
M)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#$R"'!E;G-E
MF%T:6]N(&-O2!I2!I'0^/&1I=CX-"CQP('-T>6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z
M(#$X"3X-"CQF
M;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"'!E;G-E+"!A;F0@;W1H97(@:&5A9&-O=6YT+7)E;&%T960@97AP96YS97,-
M"F%S'!E;G-E('=A'0^/&1I=CX-"CQP('-T>6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU4
M3U`Z(#!P>#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&
M3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/E-T;V-K+4)A6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)
M3BU43U`Z(#$R"F4@:70@87,@97AP96YS92P@;F5T
M(&]F(&5S=&EM871E9"!F;W)F96ET=7)E2!F;W5R('1O(&9I=F4@>65A'0^/&1I=CX-"CQP('-T>6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU4
M3U`Z(#$X"#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X)R!A;&EG;CTS
M1&IUF4],T0R/E-H87)E65E2!O9B!E86-H#0IT:')E92UM;VYT:"!P97)I
M;V0N($-O;7!E;G-A=&EO;B!E>'!E;G-E(&9O6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"&5S
M/"]B/CPO9F]N=#X\+W`^#0H\3X-"CQF;VYT
M('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3""!E>'!E;G-E#0II;F-L=61E2!I;G9E
M&5S+B!$969E#L@
M34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,
M63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/D9A:7(@5F%L=64-"DUE87-U#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X)R!A;&EG;CTS1&IUF4],T0R/E=E(&%C
M8V]U;G0@9F]R(&-E2!B96QO=R!L:7-T2X@5&AE6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#!P
M>#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X.R!&3TY4+5-)6D4Z(#9P>"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1'1O
MF4],T0R/B8C>#(P,C([/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^
M#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$=&]P('=I9'1H/3-$,24^/&9O;G0@3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4
M+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQI/DQE=F5L(#$\+VD^("8C>#(P
M,3,[(&EN0T*=')A9&5D(&UU='5A;"!F=6YD$$P.SPO6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"2!O8G-E6QE/3-$)TU!
M4D=)3BU43U`Z(#!P>#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X.R!&3TY4+5-)6D4Z
M(#9P>"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1'1OF4],T0R/B8C>#(P,C([
M/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$=&]P('=I9'1H/3-$,24^/&9O
M;G0@3X\9F]N="!S
M='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQI/DQE=F5L
M(#,\+VD^("8C>#(P,3,[(&EN2!R969L96-T(&UA;F%G96UE;G0F(W@R,#$Y
M.W,@97-T:6UA=&5S(&]F(&%S2X-"E1H92!F86ER('9A;'5E6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU4
M3U`Z(#$R#L@1D].5"U325I%.B`Q3X-"CQF;VYT('-T
M>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"2!I;F-L=61E('%U;W1E9"!M
M87)K970@&-E961S(&ET2X\
M+V9O;G0^/"]P/@T*/'`@#L@34%2
M1TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X)R!A;&EG;CTS1&IUF4],T0R/D]U6EN9R!V86QU97,N/"]F;VYT/CPO#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4
M+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/D9I;F%N8VEA;`T*26YS=')U
M;65N=',\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z
M(#$R"2!B92!C;&%S2!L:7%U
M:60@;F%T=7)E(&%N9"!B96-A=7-E('-U8V@@;6%R:V5T86)L92!S96-U6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#$R"2!S96-UF5D(&=A:6YS(&%N9"!L;W-S
M97,@87)E#0IR96-O2!I;7!A:7)M96YT65A2!M
M971H;V0N/"]F;VYT/CPO6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#$R
M"&5D+6EN8V]M92!A;F0@97%U:71Y('-E8W5R:71I
M97,@=&\@:6YC2!I;G1E3X-"CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"2X@1F%I7-T96UA=&EC(&UE
M=&AO9&]L;V=Y(&]N(&$@<75A2!B969O2P@86YD(&]P97)A
M=&EO;F%L(&%N9"!F:6YA;F-I;F'!E;G-E*2!A;F0@82!N
M976QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#$R"#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X)R!A;&EG;CTS1&IUF4],T0R
M/D9O6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#$R#L@1D].5"U325I%.B`Q3X-"CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"#(P,3D['!OF5D(&EN(&5A3X-"CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"2!U;G)E86QI>F5D(&=A:6YS("AL;W-S97,I(&EN('1H90T*=6YD97)L
M>6EN9R!A=F%I;&%B;&4M9F]R+7-A;&4@'0^/&1I=CX-"CQP('-T
M>6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#$X"#L@34%21TE.+4)/
M5%1/33H@,'!X)R!A;&EG;CTS1&IUF4],T0R/E1H92!A;&QO=V%N8V4@9F]R
M#0ID;W5B=&9U;"!A8V-O=6YT'!E2!A=F%I;&%B
M;&4@979I9&5N8V4N/"]F;VYT/CPO6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)
M3BU43U`Z(#$R"2!R979I
M972!Q=6%N=&ET:65S(&]N(&AA;F0L(&9U='5R92!P=7)C
M:&%S92!C;VUM:71M96YT'0^/&1I=CX-
M"CQP('-T>6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#$X"2!A;F0-"D5Q=6EP;65N=#PO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]P
M/@T*/'`@#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/
M33H@,'!X)R!A;&EG;CTS1&IUF4],T0R/E!R;W!E2!A6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z
M(#$R""#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X)R!A
M;&EG;CTS1&IUF4],T0R/D%L;"!O9B!O=7(@:6YT86YG:6)L90T*87-S971S
M(&%R92!S=6)J96-T('1O(&%M;W)T:7IA=&EO;B!A;F0@87)E(&%M;W)T:7IE
M9"!U2!B92!I;7!A:7)E9"X\
M+V9O;G0^/"]P/@T*/"]D:78^/'-P86X^/"]S2!A9&]P=&5D(&%C8V]U;G1I
M;F6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X)R!A;&EG;CTS1&IUF4],T0R/D]N
M($IU;'DF(WA!,#LQ+"`R,#$Q+"!W90T*861O#(P,4,[1D%30B8C>#(P,40[*2!O;B!D:7-C;&]S=7)E(')E<75I
M$$P.T%D;W!T:6]N(&]F('1H:7,@;F5W(&=U:61A;F-E(&1I
M9"!N;W0@:&%V92!A#0IM871E3X-"CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"28C>$$P.S$L(#(P,3(L#0IW92!A9&]P=&5D(&=U:61A
M;F-E(&ES2!T:&4@1D%30B!O;B!A8V-O=6YT:6YG(&%N9"!D:7-C
M;&]S=7)E#0IR97%U:7)E;65N=',@$$P.T%D9&ET:6]N86QL>2P@=&AE(&=U:61A;F-E(&5X2!R97%U:7)I;F2!O9B!T:&4@9F%I$$P.T%D;W!T:6]N(&]F('1H:7,@;F5W(&=U:61A;F-E
M#0ID:60@;F]T(&AA=F4@82!M871E65T(&%D;W!T960\+W1D/@T*("`@
M("`@("`\=&0@8VQA6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"#L@34%21TE.+4)/
M5%1/33H@,'!X)R!A;&EG;CTS1&IUF4],T0R/DEN($1E8V5M8F5R(#(P,3$L
M('1H90T*1D%30B!I28C>#(P,3D['!O3X-"CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"F5D(&9O3X-"CQF
M;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"#(P,3D[(&5Q=6ET>2XF(WA!,#M);G-T96%D+"!A;B!E;G1I
M='D@=VEL;"!B90T*2X@5&AE(&YE
M=R!G=6ED86YC92!A;'-O(')E<75I2!C;VUP;VYE;G0@
M:6X@8F]T:"!T:&4@2!D969E3X-"CPO:'1M
M;#X-"@T*+2TM+2TM/5].97AT4&%R=%\R.6$R9CDV95\T,&9C7S1C,F%?8C$Y
M95\U-3(X,S=B,#$T93(-"D-O;G1E;G0M3&]C871I;VXZ(&9I;&4Z+R\O0SHO
M,CEA,F8Y-F5?-#!F8U\T8S)A7V(Q.65?-34R.#,W8C`Q-&4R+U=O'0O:'1M;#L@8VAA
M7!E(&-O;G1E;G0],T0G=&5X="]H
M=&UL.R!C:&%R3X-"CQF;VYT('-T>6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"#L@1D].5"U325I%.B`Q,G!X)SX-"B8C
M>$$P.SPOF4],T0Q/CQB/BA)
M;B!M:6QL:6]NF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q(&YOF4]
M,T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;2!C;VQS6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;2!C;VQS6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;2!C;VQS6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M
M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,65M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS
M1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/D)A;&%N8V4L(&)E9VEN
M;FEN9R!O9@T*F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4
M+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B0\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^
M#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&%L:6=N/3-$F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T
M9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-
M"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'
M24XM3$5&5#H@,F5M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))
M04PG('-I>F4],T0R/D-H87)G960@=&\@8V]S=',@86YD(&]T:&5R/"]F;VYT
M/CPOF4]
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M9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/C$T/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T
M=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O
M;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/C0U/"]F;VYT
M/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/B8C
M>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]TF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I
M>F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!
M34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B@U.3PO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-
M"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"$$P
M.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@
M6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T
M9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/B@Q,C$\+V9O;G0^/"]T
M9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]TF4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO
M=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!S:7IE/3-$,2!N;W-H
M861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*
M/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL
M93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B0\+V9O;G0^/"]T
M9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S
M='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/C,S,SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^
M/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/"]TF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2
M.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!S:7IE/3-$,R!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^
M#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C
M9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!A;&EG;CTS
M1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0S(&YOF4],T0S(&YOF4],T0S('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O
M/CPO=&0^#0H\+W1R/@T*/"]T86)L93X-"CPO9&EV/CQS7!E.B!T97AT+VAT;6P[
M(&-H87)S970](G5S+6%S8VEI(@T*#0H\:'1M;#X-"B`@/&AE860^#0H@("`@
M/$U%5$$@:'1T'0O:'1M;#L@8VAA7!E/3-$=&5X="]J
M879A'0^/&1I=CX-"CQP('-T>6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#$R
M"#L@1D].5"U325I%.B`Q,G!X)SX-"B8C
M>$$P.SPOF4],T0Q/CQB/BA)
M;B!M:6QL:6]NF4],T0Q
M/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;2!C;VQSF4]
M,T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C
M;VQSF4],T0Q
M/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQS
MF4]
M,T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQS6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQS6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQS6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'
M24XM3$5&5#H@,65M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))
M04PG('-I>F4],T0R/DYE="!I;F-O;64@879A:6QA8FQE(&9O6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P
M.R8C>$$P.S$V+#DW.#PO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B
M;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&
M3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B0\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT
M9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS
M1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.S$X
M+#6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C
M>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O
M;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"F4]
M,T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\
M9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS
M1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T
M9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/C$Q-#PO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@
M6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P
M,#`P)R!S:7IE/3-$,2!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@
M=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F
M)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT
M('-I>F4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^
M#0H\+W1R/@T*/'1R(&)G8V]L;W(],T0C0T-%149&/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1'1O6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM
M3$5&5#H@,65M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG
M('-I>F4],T0R/D-O;6UO;B!S=&]C:R!A;F0@8V]M;6]N('-T;V-K#0IE<75I
M=F%L96YT6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V
M86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#LF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT
M9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^#0H\:'(@F4],T0S('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N
M;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M
M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C
M-3DU.34Y)R!S:7IE/3-$,R!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\
M=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F
M9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I
M9VAT('-I>F4],T0S(&YOF4],T0S(&YOF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQS6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@
M,65M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4]
M,T0R/D)AF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4
M+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B0\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^
M#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&%L:6=N/3-$F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!
M34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B0\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI
M9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4
M+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/C(N-S,\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT
M9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4]
M,T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\
M9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B0\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H
M=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R
M/C(N,3,\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4
M.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,65M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4
M+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/D1I;'5T960@*$$O0RD\+V9O;G0^
M/"]P/@T*/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/C(N,#`\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L
M:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO
M8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"3X-"CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"#L@1D].
M5"U325I%.B`Q,G!X)SX-"B8C>$$P.SPOF4],T0Q/CQB/BA);B!M:6QL:6]NF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQS6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQS6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQS6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@
M,65M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4]
M,T0R/E-H87)E&-L=61E9"!F6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/C(Q/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@
M=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$
M,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O
M;G0@F4]
M,T0R/C(X/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)A
MF4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]T'1087)T7S(Y83)F.39E7S0P9F-?-&,R85]B,3EE7S4U,C@S-V(P,31E
M,@T*0V]N=&5N="U,;V-A=&EO;CH@9FEL93HO+R]#.B\R.6$R9CDV95\T,&9C
M7S1C,F%?8C$Y95\U-3(X,S=B,#$T93(O5V]R:W-H965T'0O:F%V87-C3X-"B`@("`\=&%B;&4@8VQA'!E;G-E*2`H5&%B;&5S*3QB#L@34%21TE.+4)/
M5%1/33H@,'!X)R!A;&EG;CTS1&IUF4],T0R/E1H92!C;VUP;VYE;G1S(&]F
M(&]T:&5R#0II;F-O;64@*&5X"F4],T0Q
M/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N
M="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B
M;W1T;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q/B8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S
M:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T
M;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]T6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P
M)R!S:7IE/3-$,2!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L
M:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A
M;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/CQB/C(P,3(\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\
M=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF
M(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q/CQB/C(P,3$\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\
M=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF
M(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q/CQB/C(P,3`\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\
M=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]T6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/C@P,#PO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T
M9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS
M1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B0\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-
M"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL
M93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/C@T,SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O
M;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.R@R.34\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V
M86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!
M,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/B8C
M>$$P.R8C>$$P.R@Q-3$\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T
M;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]T6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4]
M,T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A
M;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O
M;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/C,T.#PO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^
M/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"F4],T0R/B@W-SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!
M34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M
M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,65M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!
M34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/DYE="!G86EN2!R96UE87-UF4],T0R
M/B@R-CPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`]
M,T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))
M04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B@S,3PO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS
M1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT
M('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H
M861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF
M;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P
M,#`P)R!S:7IE/3-$,2!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@
M=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F
M)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT
M('-I>F4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q(&YO6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&
M3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B0\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT
M9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS
M1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CDQ,#PO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@
M6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]TF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU
M.34Y)R!S:7IE/3-$,R!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@
M=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F
M)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT
M('-I>F4],T0S(&YOF4],T0S(&YOF4],T0S('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^
M#0H\+W1R/@T*/"]T86)L93X-"CPO9&EV/CQS"F5D(&=A:6YS(&]N
M(&EN=F5S=&UE;G1S(&1U6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#!P>#L@34%21TE.
M+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X.R!&3TY4+5-)6D4Z(#$R6QE/3-$)T)/4D1%4BU#3TQ,05!313H@8V]L;&%P6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$
M,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O
M;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF
M(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@
MF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!
M,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CPO='(^#0H\='(^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T
M=&]M(&-O;'-P86X],T0Q,CX-"CQHF4],T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S
M:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\+W1R/@T*/'1R/@T*/'1D/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@8V]L
MF4]
M,T0Q/CQB/EEE87(@16YD960@2G5N928C>$$P.S,P+#PO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T
M9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL
M93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B0\+V(^/"]F
M;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&%L:6=N/3-$6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$
M,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O
M;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]T6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/C6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE
M/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,65M)SX\9F]N
M="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/E)E86QI
M>F5D(&QOF4],T0R/B@R,34\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT
M9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF
M(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@
MF4],T0R
M/B@Q.#@\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]TF4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E
M/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT
M('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P
M)R!S:7IE/3-$,2!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L
M:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A
M;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R
M/CQB/C4V-#PO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@
M;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C
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M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#LF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^
M/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^#0H\:'(@F4],T0S('=I
M9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N
M/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$
M)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!S:7IE/3-$,R!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O
M/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/
M3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!A
M;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0S(&YOF4],T0S(&YO'1087)T7S(Y83)F
M.39E7S0P9F-?-&,R85]B,3EE7S4U,C@S-V(P,31E,@T*0V]N=&5N="U,;V-A
M=&EO;CH@9FEL93HO+R]#.B\R.6$R9CDV95\T,&9C7S1C,F%?8C$Y95\U-3(X
M,S=B,#$T93(O5V]R:W-H965T'0O:F%V87-C3X-"B`@("`\=&%B;&4@8VQA6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"#L@1D].5"U325I%.B`Q,G!X)SX-"B8C>$$P.SPO6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]L6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#!P>#L@
M34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/@T*/&9O;G0@F5D/"]B/CPO9F]N=#X\+W`^#0H\"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-
M"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]L6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#!P>#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/
M33H@,'!X)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/@T*/&9O;G0@F5D/"]B/CPO9F]N
M=#X\+W`^#0H\"6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3""6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#!P>#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,7!X)R!A
M;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/@T*/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q
M/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQS
MF4],T0Q/CQB
M/D-A6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z
M(#!P>#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/@T*/&9O
M;G0@6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU4
M3U`Z(#!P>#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,7!X)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/@T*
M/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q/CQB/E-H;W)T+71E
M6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#!P
M>#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,7!X)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/@T*/&9O;G0@
MF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q/CQB/D5Q=6ET>3PO8CX\+V9O
M;G0^/"]P/@T*/'`@F4],T0Q/CQB/F%N9`T*3W1H97(\+V(^
M/"]F;VYT/CPO6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#!P>#L@34%2
M1TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,7!X)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/@T*/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q/CQB/DIU;F4F(WA!,#LS,"P@,C`Q
M,CPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@
MF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$
M,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O
M;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF
M(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@
MF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!
M,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O
M;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^
M/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T
M9#X-"CPO='(^#0H\='(^#0H\=&0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!C;VQSF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS
M1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B0\+V(^/"]F;VYT
M/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&%L:6=N/3-$6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB
M/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B
M;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/C(L,#$Y/"]B/CPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O
M;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))
M04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B0\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N
M/3-$8F]T=&]M(&%L:6=N/3-$F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I
M>F4],T0R/CQB/B0\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T
M=&]M(&%L:6=N/3-$6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&
M5#H@,65M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I
M>F4],T0R/DUU='5A;"!F=6YDF4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-
M"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
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M6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-
M"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&
M5#H@,65M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I
M>F4],T0R/D-O;6UE6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T
M9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS
M1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.SPO8CX\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H
M=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R
M/CQB/CDV/"]B/CPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N
M;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO
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M;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS
M1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.SPO8CX\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H
M=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R
M/CQB/C`\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO
M=W)AF4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-
M"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V
M86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!
M34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T
M9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S
M='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/C6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V
M86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4
M+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^
M/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N
M="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/C`\
M+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CPO='(^
M#0H\='(@8F=C;VQO6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB
M/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B
M;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@
M05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT
M9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS
M1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B@R/"]B/CPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^
M/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/CQB
M/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B
M;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@
M05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT
M9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS
M1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/C0V+#6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4
M.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,65M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4
M+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/D9O6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R
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M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^
M/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@
M05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT
M9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS
M1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/C4W-3PO8CX\+V9O
M;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,65M)SX\
M9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/DUO
MF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P
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M='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C
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M='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C
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M='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P
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M='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S
M='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P
M.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX]
M,T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I
M>F4],T0R/CQB/C`\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T
M=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^
M/"]T9#X-"CPO='(^#0H\='(^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$=&]P/@T*/'`@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^
M/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M
M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,65M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,
M63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/DUU;FEC:7!A;"!S96-UF4]
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M9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4]
M,T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B
M;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,
M63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/C0Q-CPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT
M9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4]
M,T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B
M;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,
M63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/C0Q-CPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT
M9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM
M3$5&5#H@,65M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG
M('-I>F4],T0R/D-O;6UO;B!A;F0@F4],T0Q
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M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4]
M,T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B
M;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,
M63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/C(L,C`T/"]B/CPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I
M>F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!
M34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B@T,S8\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^
M#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/CQB/BDF(WA!
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M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I
M>F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!
M34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/C`\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\
M=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C
M>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O
M;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@
M05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT
M9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS
M1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/C`\+V(^/"]F;VYT
M/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/CQB
M/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B
M;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R
M/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@
M05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT
M9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS
M1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/C$L,#0S/"]B/CPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R
M87`^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q('=I9'1H
M/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$
M8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/
M3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!S:7IE/3-$,2!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO
M=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2
M.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!A;&EG
M;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D
M92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q
M/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH
M6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!S:7IE/3-$
M,2!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T
M=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE
M9G0@6QE
M/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0Q(&YO
MF4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q('=I
M9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\+W1R/@T*/'1R
M(&)G8V]L;W(],T0C0T-%149&/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1'1O6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,F5M)SX\
M9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/E1O
M=&%L/"]F;VYT/CPOF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))
M04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B0\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N
M/3-$8F]T=&]M(&%L:6=N/3-$F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V
M86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C
M>$$P.S(L-S$V/"]B/CPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL
M93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B0\+V(^/"]F
M;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&%L:6=N/3-$6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4]
M,T0R/CQB/B0\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M
M(&%L:6=N/3-$6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4
M+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B0\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^
M#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&%L:6=N/3-$6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$
M)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!S:7IE/3-$,R!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O
M/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/
M3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!A
M;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0S(&YOF4],T0S(&YOF4],T0S('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S
M:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4]
M,T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-
M"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!S:7IE
M/3-$,R!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$
M8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS
M1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0S
M(&YOF4],T0S(&YO
MF4],T0S
M('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L
M:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE
M/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!S:7IE/3-$,R!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D
M92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$
M)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@F4],T0Q/CQB/D-OF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q/CQB/E5N6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#!P>#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@
M,7!X)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/@T*/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;2!C;VQSF4]
M,T0Q/CQB/E5N6QE/3-$
M)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#!P>#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,7!X)R!A;&EG;CTS
M1')I9VAT/@T*/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!
M,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]L6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#!P
M>#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/@T*/&9O;G0@
MF4],T0Q/CQB/D)A
M"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/CQB/F%N9"8C>$$P.T-A6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#!P>#L@34%21TE.
M+4)/5%1/33H@,7!X)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/@T*/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q/CQB/E-H;W)T+71E6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#!P>#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/
M33H@,7!X)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/@T*/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q/CQB/D5Q=6ET>3PO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]P/@T*/'`@F4],T0Q/CQB/F%N9"8C>$$P.T]T:&5R/"]B/CPO9F]N=#X\+W`^
M#0H\"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4]
M,T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]T6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2
M.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!S:7IE/3-$,2!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^
M#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C
M9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@F4],T0Q/B8C
M>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C
M;VQSF4],T0Q
M/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQS
MF4],T0Q/B8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQS6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG
M('-I>F4],T0R/B0\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@
M86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))
M04PG('-I>F4],T0R/C$L-C0X/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$
M8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/B8C>$$P
M.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N
M="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B
M;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]T6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R
M/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI
M9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/C`\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL
M93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF
M;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@
M05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4]
M,T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\
M9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS
M1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]TF4]
M,T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4]
M,T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A
M;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O
M;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/C`\+V9O;G0^
M/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I
M>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG
M('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!
M,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/C(R
M-3PO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N
M;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]TF4],T0R/C4Y.#PO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R
M87`^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!
M,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/C`\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))
M04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF
M(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@
MF4],T0R
M/C,W,CPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`]
M,T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4]
M,T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\
M9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS
M1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/C,S+#8P-SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@
M05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!
M,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/C,S
M+#6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&
M3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T
M>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"F4],T0Q
M/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R
M/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG
M;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^
M/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/C$Q/"]F;VYT/CPO
M=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/B8C>$$P
M.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N
M="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B
M;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/B@R/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T
M=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/BDF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V
M86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4]
M,T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A
M;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I
M>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I
M>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^
M/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/C(L-#(T/"]F;VYT
M/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/B8C
M>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\
M9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/C`\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B
M;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS
M1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT
M('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))
M04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/C$P+#4W
M-3PO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N
M;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q
M/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N
M="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I
M9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/BDF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B
M;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4]
M,T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\
M9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS
M1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4
M+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I
M>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,
M63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4]
M,T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\
M9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS
M1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT
M9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/C0U-#PO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-
M"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/C0U-#PO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]TF4],T0R/CF4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S
M:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T
M;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/C(L-#@S/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T
M=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O
M;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/B@Q.3,\+V9O
M;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N
M="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B
M;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/C$P+#(Q-3PO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R
M/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI
M9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/C`\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL
M93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF
M;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]TF4],T0R/C8U-#PO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@
M6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^
M/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/C`\+V9O;G0^/"]T
M9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4]
M,T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A
M;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O
M;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/C`\+V9O;G0^
M/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I
M>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H
M861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF
M;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P
M,#`P)R!S:7IE/3-$,2!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@
M=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F
M)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT
M('-I>F4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^
M#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!S:7IE/3-$,2!N;W-H861E
M/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR
M('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2
M.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N
M;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\+W1R/@T*/'1R(&)G8V]L;W(]
M,T0C0T-%149&/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1'1O6QE/3-$)U1%
M6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,F5M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL
M93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/E1O=&%L/"]F;VYT
M/CPOF4]
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M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&
M3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B0\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT
M9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS
M1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.R@R
M,3D\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI
M9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R
M/B0\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R
M:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4]
M,T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SDL-C$P/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N
M/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!
M,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4
M+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B0\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V
M86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&
M3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.S$P+#@V
M-3PO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N
M;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF
M(WA!,#LF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^
M#0H\:'(@F4],T0S('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O
M/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!S:7IE/3-$,R!N
M;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M
M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@
M6QE/3-$
M)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0S(&YOF4],T0S(&YOF4],T0S('=I9'1H
M/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$
M8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/
M3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!S:7IE/3-$,R!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO
M=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2
M.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!A;&EG
M;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0S(&YOF4],T0S(&YOF4],T0S('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D
M92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\+W1R/@T*/"]T86)L93X-"CPO9&EV/CQS#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X)R!A;&EG;CTS1&IUF4],T0R/DEN
M=F5S=&UE;G1S('=I=&@-"F-O;G1I;G5O=7,@=6YR96%L:7IE9"!L;W-S97,@
M9F]R(&QE#L@1D].5"U325I%.B`Q,G!X)SX-"B8C
M>$$P.SPOF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQS6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!R;W=S"6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#!P>#L@34%2
M1TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/@T*/&9O;G0@F5D
M/"]B/CPO9F]N=#X\+W`^#0H\"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4]
M,T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\
M9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#LF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V
M86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^#0H\:'(@F4],T0Q('=I
M9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N
M/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!S:7IE/3-$,2!N;W-H861E
M/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR
M('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]TF4],T0Q/CQB/D9A:7(F(WA!,#M686QU93PO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT
M9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQS6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T
M9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]LF4]
M,T0Q/CQB/E5NF4]
M,T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C
M;VQS6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/"]T6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!S:7IE/3-$,2!N
M;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M
M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@
M6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"$$P.S,P+"`R,#$R/"]B/CPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF
M(WA!,#LF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@
M8V]LF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$
M,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]L
MF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF
M(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!
M,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O
M;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]T
M0T*6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-
M"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/B@R
M/"]B/CPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`]
M,T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P
M.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@
M6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/B@R/"]B/CPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P
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M;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-
M"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-
M"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/BDF(WA!,#L\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@
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M.3PO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/BDF(WA!,#L\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\+W1R/@T*
M/'1R(&)G8V]L;W(],T0C0T-%149&/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1'1O6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,65M
M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R
M/DUOF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C
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M='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S
M='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P
M.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX]
M,T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I
M>F4],T0R/CQB/C`\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T
M=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^
M/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^
M/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/BDF(WA!,#L\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^
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M;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CPO
M='(^#0H\='(^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$=&]P/@T*/'`@6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V
M86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B
M;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@
M05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT
M9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS
M1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B@Q-3PO8CX\+V9O
M;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CPO='(^#0H\='(@8F=C;VQO
M6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-
M"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT
M9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&
M3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O
M;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\
M9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB
M/B@Q,#F4],T0R/CQB/BDF(WA!,#L\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@
M=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4
M+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^
M/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N
M="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/C(L
M-#0P/"]B/CPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R
M87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
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M=W)AF4],T0R/CQB/BDF(WA!,#L\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\+W1R
M/@T*/'1R/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q
M('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L
M:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE
M/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!S:7IE/3-$,2!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D
M92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$
M)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P
M)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$
M;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I
M>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4]
M,T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q
M(&YO6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^
M/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R
M/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.R@S-CD\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L
M:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/CQB/BDF(WA!,#L\+V(^/"]F
M;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q
M/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N
M="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B0\
M+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&%L:6=N/3-$
MF4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P
M.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@
M6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.R@Q,34\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO
M=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/CQB/BDF
M(WA!,#L\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF
M;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I
M>F4],T0R/CQB/B0\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T
M=&]M(&%L:6=N/3-$6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CPO='(^#0H\
M='(^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE
M/3-$,3XF(WA!,#LF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B
M;W1T;VT^#0H\:'(@F4],T0S('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S
M:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4]
M,T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-
M"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!S:7IE
M/3-$,R!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$
M8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS
M1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0S
M(&YOF4],T0S(&YO
MF4],T0S
M('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L
M:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE
M/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!S:7IE/3-$,R!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D
M92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$
M)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y
M)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0S(&YOF4],T0S(&YOF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQS6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF
M(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@
MF4],T0Q/CQB
M/E1O=&%L/&)R("\^#0I5;G)E86QI>F5D/&)R("\^#0I,;W-S97,\+V(^/"]F
M;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(')O=W-P86X],T0S/CQF
M;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]TF4],T0Q
M/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!A;&EG;CTS
M1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$
M,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O
M;G0@F4],T0Q/CQB/BA);B!M:6QL:6]NF4],T0Q/B8C
M>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C
M;VQS6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"$$P.U9A;'5E/"]B
M/CPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE
M/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^
M/&9O;G0@F5D/&)R("\^#0I,;W-S97,\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N
M/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O
M;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q/CQB/D9A:7(F(WA!,#M686QU93PO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-
M"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q
M/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQS
M6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"$$P.U9A;'5E/"]B/CPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O
M;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;2!C;VQS6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@
M,65M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4]
M,T0R/E4N4RX@9V]V97)N;65N="!A;F0@86=E;F-Y#0IS96-UF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I
M>F4],T0R/B0\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI
M9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG
M('-I>F4],T0R/C0X-#PO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$
M,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O
M;G0@F4]
M,T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V
M86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I
M>F4],T0R/B0\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI
M9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG
M('-I>F4],T0R/B@W/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M
M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/BDF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CPO='(^#0H\
M='(^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$=&]P/@T*/'`@6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@
M05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$
M,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O
M;G0@F4]
M,T0R/B@R/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)A
MF4],T0R/BDF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B
M;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF
M(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@
MF4],T0R
M/C`\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@
M05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$
M,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O
M;G0@F4]
M,T0R/B@R/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)A
MF4],T0R/BDF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CPO='(^#0H\='(@8F=C
M;VQO6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&
M3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T
M>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I
M>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^
M/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/CF4],T0R/B8C>$$P
M.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N
M="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B
M;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/B@T/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T
M=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/BDF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CPO='(^
M#0H\='(^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$=&]P/@T*/'`@6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/C6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-
M"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/C(U/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\
M=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE
M/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^
M/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/B@Q/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO
M=W)AF4],T0R/BDF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4]
M,T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\
M9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS
M1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/BDF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CPO='(^#0H\='(@
M8F=C;VQO6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4
M+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^
M/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/CF4],T0R/B8C>$$P
M.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N
M="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B
M;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/B@R/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T
M=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/BDF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CPO='(^
M#0H\='(^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$=&]P/@T*/'`@6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/BDF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V
M86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4]
M,T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A
M;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"F4],T0R/BDF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V
M86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/BDF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CPO
M='(^#0H\='(^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&-O;'-P86X],T0T/@T*
M/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!S:7IE/3-$,2!N;W-H861E
M/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR
M('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2
M.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N
M;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M
M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C
M,#`P,#`P)R!S:7IE/3-$,2!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\
M=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F
M9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I
M9VAT('-I>F4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO
M=&0^#0H\+W1R/@T*/'1R(&)G8V]L;W(],T0C0T-%149&/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1'1O6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'
M24XM3$5&5#H@,F5M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))
M04PG('-I>F4],T0R/E1O=&%L/"]F;VYT/CPOF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&
M3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B0\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT
M9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS
M1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/C,L,3$X/"]F;VYT/CPO
M=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/B8C>$$P
M.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N
M="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B
M;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/BDF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI
M9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$
M,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O
M;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI
M9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE
M/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0S(&YO
MF4],T0S(&YOF4],T0S('=I
M9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N
M/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$
M)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!S:7IE/3-$,R!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O
M/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/
M3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!A
M;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0S(&YOF4],T0S(&YOF4],T0S('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S
M:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4]
M,T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-
M"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!S:7IE
M/3-$,R!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$
M8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS
M1&QE9G0@'0^
M/&1I=CX-"CQP('-T>6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#$X"6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#!P>#L@34%2
M1TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X.R!&3TY4+5-)6D4Z(#$R6QE/3-$)T)/4D1%4BU#3TQ,05!313H@8V]L;&%PF4],T0Q/CQB/BA);B!M:6QL:6]NF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQS6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"$$P.T)A"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3""6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"$$P.U9A;'5E/"]B/CPO9F]N=#X\+W`^#0H\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O
M;G0^/"]T9#X-"CPO='(^#0H\='(^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&-O
M;'-P86X],T0X/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!S:7IE
M/3-$,2!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$
M8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS
M1&QE9G0@F4],T0Q/CQB/DIU;F4F(WA!,#LS,"P@,C`Q,CPO8CX\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!
M,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CPO='(^#0H\='(^#0H\=&0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!C;VQS
M6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,65M
M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R
M/D1U92!I;B!O;F4@>65AF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL
M93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B0\+V9O;G0^/"]T
M9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S
M='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/C(S+#`Y-SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R
M87`^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/"]TF4],T0R/C,Q+#`R.3PO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)U1%
M6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,65M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL
M93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/D1U92!A9G1EF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S
M='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT
M/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,
M63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&
M5#H@,65M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I
M>F4],T0R/D1U92!A9G1EF4],T0R/C(L
M-#,S/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT
M9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/C(L-3F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]TF4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO
M=&0^#0H\+W1R/@T*/'1R(&)G8V]L;W(],T0C0T-%149&/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1'1O6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'
M24XM3$5&5#H@,F5M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))
M04PG('-I>F4],T0R/E1O=&%L/"]F;VYT/CPOF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&
M3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B0\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT
M9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS
M1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.S4Y
M+#6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C
M>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]TF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!S:7IE/3-$,R!N
M;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M
M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@
M6QE/3-$
M)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0S(&YOF4],T0S(&YO'0O:F%V87-C3X-"B`@("`\=&%B;&4@8VQA'0^/&1I=CX-
M"CQP('-T>6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#$R"#(P,40[*2X@5&AE(&9A:7(@=F%L=65S(&5X8VQU9&4@=&AE(&EM&ES=',@86YD(&9A:7(@=F%L=64-"F%D:G5S=&UE;G1S(')E
M;&%T960@=&\@;W5R(&]W;B!C"6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#!P>#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X
M)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/@T*/&9O;G0@"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#!P>#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@
M,7!X)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/@T*/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q
M/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N
M="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B
M;W1T;VT@8V]L6QE/3-$
M)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#!P>#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X)R!A;&EG;CTS
M1')I9VAT/@T*/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$
M)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#!P>#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,7!X)R!A;&EG;CTS
M1')I9VAT/@T*/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF
M(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]L6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z
M(#!P>#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/@T*/&9O
M;G0@F4],T0Q/CQB
M/E)A=&4\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z
M(#!P>#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,7!X)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/@T*/&9O
M;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^
M/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]L6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#!P>#L@34%21TE.
M+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/@T*/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#!P>#L@34%21TE.
M+4)/5%1/33H@,7!X)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/@T*/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V
M86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]L6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#!P>#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X
M)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/@T*/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#!P>#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@
M,7!X)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/@T*/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q
M/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N
M="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B
M;W1T;VT@8V]L6QE/3-$
M)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#!P>#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X)R!A;&EG;CTS
M1')I9VAT/@T*/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/CQB/D1EF4],T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O
M/CPO=&0^#0H\+W1R/@T*/'1R/@T*/'1D/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@8V]LF4],T0Q/CQB/DIU;F4F(WA!,#LS,"P@,C`Q,CPO
M8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF
M(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@
MF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!
M,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O
M;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^
M/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T
M9#X-"CPO='(^#0H\='(^#0H\=&0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!C;VQS6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O
M;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^
M/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T
M9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-
M"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]TF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT
M9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S
M:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T
M;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT
M9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S
M:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T
M;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT
M9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,V5M)SX\
M9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/E-H
M;W)T+71E6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/B8C
M>$$P.R8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.S$T/"]B/CPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@F4]
M,T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\
M9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB
M/B0\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&%L:6=N
M/3-$F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C
M>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O
M;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.S$P/"]B/CPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R
M87`^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,
M63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B0\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@
M=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&%L:6=N/3-$6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$
M)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,V5M)SX\9F]N="!S
M='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/D]T:&5R(&-U
MF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!
M34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T
M9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S
M='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/C@U/"]B
M/CPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N
M;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!
M34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T
M9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S
M='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/C`\+V(^
M/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4]
M,T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI
M9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,
M63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-
M"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL
M93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/C`\+V(^/"]F
M;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R
M/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R
M/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CPO='(^#0H\='(^
M#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&-O;'-P86X],T0T/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE
M/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!S:7IE/3-$,2!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D
M92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$
M)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P
M)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$
M;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I
M>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4]
M,T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q
M(&YOF4]
M,T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\+W1R
M/@T*/'1R(&)G8V]L;W(],T0C0T-%149&/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1'1O6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@
M-65M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4]
M,T0R/E1O=&%L/"]F;VYT/CPOF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,
M63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B0\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@
M=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&%L:6=N/3-$6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG
M('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B0\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$
M8F]T=&]M(&%L:6=N/3-$6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO
M8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/C,\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$
M8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O
M;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4]
M,T0R/CQB/C,P,#PO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T
M;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI
M9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$
M,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O
M;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^
M/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI
M9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$
M,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O
M;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^
M/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI
M9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$
M,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CPO='(^#0H\='(@8F=C;VQO6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R
M/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@
M05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT
M9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS
M1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/C`\+V(^/"]F;VYT
M/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/CQB
M/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B
M;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB
M/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CPO='(^#0H\='(^#0H\
M=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&-O;'-P86X],T0T/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$
M)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!S:7IE/3-$,2!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O
M/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/
M3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!A
M;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S
M:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4]
M,T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-
M"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!S:7IE
M/3-$,2!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$
M8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS
M1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0Q
M(&YOF4],T0Q(&YO
MF4],T0Q
M('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\+W1R/@T*
M/'1R(&)G8V]L;W(],T0C0T-%149&/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1'1O6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@-65M
M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R
M/E1O=&%L/"]F;VYT/CPOF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@
M05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B0\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L
M:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&%L:6=N/3-$F4],T0R/CQB/B8C
M>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T
M;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"F4],T0R/CQB/C`\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\
M=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C
M>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O
M;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/C`\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L
M:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO
M8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/C`\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$
M8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O
M;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4]
M,T0R/CQB/C`\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M
M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T
M9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB
M/C$X,SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W
M6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2
M.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!S:7IE/3-$,R!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^
M#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C
M9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!A;&EG;CTS
M1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0S(&YOF4],T0S(&YOF4],T0S('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O
M/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!S:7IE/3-$,R!N
M;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M
M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@
M6QE/3-$
M)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0S(&YOF4],T0S(&YOF4],T0S('=I9'1H
M/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\+W1R/@T*/'1R(&)G
M8V]L;W(],T0C0T-%149&/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1'1O6QE
M/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@-V5M)SX\9F]N
M="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/E1O=&%L
M(&%S6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))
M04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B0\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N
M/3-$8F]T=&]M(&%L:6=N/3-$F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P
M.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^
M/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/C$P/"]B/CPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4]
M,T0R/CQB/B0\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M
M(&%L:6=N/3-$6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU
M.34Y)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0S(&YOF4],T0S(&YOF4],T0S('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E
M/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT
M('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y
M)R!S:7IE/3-$,R!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L
M:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A
M;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I
M>F4],T0S(&YOF4]
M,T0S(&YOF4],T0S('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\
M=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!S:7IE/3-$,R!N;W-H861E/3-$
M;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T
M>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQS6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-
M05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,65M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@
M05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/DYO;BUD97-I9VYA=&5D(&AE9&=E#0ID97)I=F%T
M:79EF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!
M,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-
M"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q
M/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N
M="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B
M;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!
M,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-
M"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q
M/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N
M="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B
M;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!
M,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-
M"CPO='(^#0H\='(^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$=&]P/@T*/'`@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CPO='(^#0H\
M='(@8F=C;VQO6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P
M.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N
M="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B
M;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!
M,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-
M"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q
M/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N
M="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B
M;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!
M,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-
M"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q
M/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N
M="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B
M;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!
M,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-
M05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,V5M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@
M05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/D]T:&5R(&-U6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/B@Q-#PO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V
M86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"$$P.SPO8CX\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/C`\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T
M=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^
M/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R
M/CQB/C`\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO
M=W)AF4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-
M"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/C`\
M+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V
M86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/C`\+V(^/"]F
M;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R
M/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/B@Q-#PO8CX\+V9O;G0^
M/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CPO='(^#0H\='(^#0H\=&0@=F%L
M:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&-O;'-P86X],T0T/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2
M.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!S:7IE/3-$,2!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^
M#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C
M9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!A;&EG;CTS
M1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O
M/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!S:7IE/3-$,2!N
M;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M
M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@
M6QE/3-$
M)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q('=I9'1H
M/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\+W1R/@T*/'1R(&)G
M8V]L;W(],T0C0T-%149&/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1'1O6QE
M/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@-V5M)SX\9F]N
M="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/E1O=&%L
M(&QI86)I;&ET:65S/"]F;VYT/CPOF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!
M34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B0\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\
M=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&%L:6=N/3-$F4],T0R
M/CQB/BDF(WA!,#L\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T
M=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))
M04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B0\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N
M/3-$8F]T=&]M(&%L:6=N/3-$F4],T0R/CQB/BDF(WA!
M,#L\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT
M('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4]
M,T0R/CQB/B0\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M
M(&%L:6=N/3-$F4],T0R/CQB/BDF(WA!,#L\+V(^/"]F
M;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q
M/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N
M="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B0\
M+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&%L:6=N/3-$
MF4],T0R/CQB/BDF(WA!,#L\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^
M#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS
M1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B0\+V(^/"]F;VYT
M/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&%L:6=N/3-$F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4
M+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B0\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^
M#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&%L:6=N/3-$F4],T0Q
M/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4]
M,T0S(&YOF4],T0S
M(&YOF4]
M,T0S('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@
M=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!S:7IE/3-$,R!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S
M:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE
M/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU
M.34Y)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0S(&YOF4],T0S(&YOF4],T0S('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E
M/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\+W1R/@T*/'1R/@T*/'1D/CPO=&0^#0H\
M=&0@8V]LF4],T0Q/CQB/BA);B!M:6QL
M:6]NF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q/CQB/D9O6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#!P>#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X
M)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/@T*/&9O;G0@&-H86YG93PO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]P/@T*
M/'`@F4],T0Q/CQB/D-O;G1R86-TF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q/CQB/D5Q=6ET>3PO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]P/@T*/'`@F4],T0Q/CQB/D-O;G1R86-TF4],T0Q/B8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q/CQB/DEN
M=&5R97-T/"]B/CPO9F]N=#X\+W`^#0H\"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/CQB/D-O
M;G1R86-TF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q/CQB/D-R961I=#PO8CX\+V9O
M;G0^/"]P/@T*/'`@F4],T0Q/CQB/D-O;G1R86-TF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q/CQB/D-O;6UO9&ET>3PO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]P/@T*
M/'`@F4],T0Q/CQB/D-O;G1R86-TF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q/CQB/E1O=&%L/"]B/CPO9F]N=#X\+W`^#0H\"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]T6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!S:7IE
M/3-$,2!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$
M8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS
M1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"$$P.S,P+"`R,#$Q/"]B
M/CPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE
M/3-$,3XF(WA!,#LF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B
M;W1T;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q/B8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S
M:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T
M;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE
M/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@
M8V]LF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$
M,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]L
MF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF
M(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!
M,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/"]TF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQS6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M
M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,65M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!
M34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/DYO;BUD97-I9VYA=&5D(&AE9&=E#0ID
M97)I=F%T:79EF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$
M,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O
M;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^
M/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI
M9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$
M,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O
M;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^
M/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI
M9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$
M,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O
M;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^
M/"]T9#X-"CPO='(^#0H\='(^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$=&]P/@T*/'`@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-
M"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R
M/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI
M9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/"]TF4]
M,T0R/CF4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-
M"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/C`\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT
M9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4]
M,T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\
M9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS
M1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE
M/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^
M/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/C`\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W
M6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!
M34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S
M:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4]
M,T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-
M"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!S:7IE
M/3-$,2!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$
M8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS
M1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0Q
M(&YOF4],T0Q(&YO
MF4],T0Q
M('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L
M:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE
M/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!S:7IE/3-$,2!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D
M92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$
M)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P
M)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q(&YO6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$
M,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O
M;G0@F4]
M,T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V
M86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]T
MF4],T0Q/B8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S
M:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T
M;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT
M9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S
M:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T
M;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT
M9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S
M:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T
M;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CPO='(^#0H\='(@8F=C;VQO6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^
M/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE
M/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^
M/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT
M9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!
M,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/B8C
M>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\
M9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]T
MF4],T0R/C$R,SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-
M"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/C`\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT
M9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4]
M,T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\
M9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS
M1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE
M/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^
M/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/C$R,SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N
M;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!S:7IE/3-$,2!N;W-H861E/3-$
M;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T
M>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C
M,#`P,#`P)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H
M861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF
M;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P
M,#`P)R!S:7IE/3-$,2!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@
M=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F
M)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT
M('-I>F4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^
M#0H\+W1R/@T*/'1R(&)G8V]L;W(],T0C0T-%149&/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1'1O6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM
M3$5&5#H@-65M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG
M('-I>F4],T0R/E1O=&%L/"]F;VYT/CPOF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4
M+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B0\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V
M86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&
M3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/C$R.3PO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]TF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!S:7IE/3-$,R!N;W-H861E
M/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR
M('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2
M.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0S(&YOF4],T0S(&YOF4],T0S('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N
M;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M
M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C
M-3DU.34Y)R!S:7IE/3-$,R!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\
M=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F
M9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I
M9VAT('-I>F4],T0S(&YOF4],T0S(&YOF4],T0S('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO
M=&0^#0H\+W1R/@T*/'1R(&)G8V]L;W(],T0C0T-%149&/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1'1O6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'
M24XM3$5&5#H@-V5M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))
M04PG('-I>F4],T0R/E1O=&%L(&%S6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG
M('-I>F4],T0R/B0\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@
M86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))
M04PG('-I>F4],T0R/C$W.3PO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!
M34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B0\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI
M9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4
M+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/C0\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V
M86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q
M/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N
M="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B0\+V9O
M;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\
M9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/C0Q
M-CPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N
M;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF
M(WA!,#LF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^
M#0H\:'(@F4],T0S('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O
M/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!S:7IE/3-$,R!N
M;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M
M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@
M6QE/3-$
M)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0S(&YOF4],T0S(&YOF4],T0S('=I9'1H
M/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$
M8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/
M3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!S:7IE/3-$,R!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO
M=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2
M.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!A;&EG
M;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0S(&YOF4],T0S(&YOF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$
M,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O
M;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF
M(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@
MF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!
M,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O
M;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^
M/"]T9#X-"CPO='(^#0H\='(^#0H\=&0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!C;VQS6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^
M/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI
M9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$
M,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O
M;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^
M/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI
M9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$
M,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O
M;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^
M/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]TF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I
M>F4],T0R/B0\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI
M9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG
M('-I>F4],T0R/B@Y,3PO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!
M34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B0\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI
M9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4
M+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B@Q,CPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S
M='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B0\+V9O;G0^
M/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N
M="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B@Y/"]F
M;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R
M/BDF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O
M;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/BDF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI
M9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!
M,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R
M/BDF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CPO='(^#0H\='(@8F=C;VQO6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!
M,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-
M"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q
M/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N
M="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B
M;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!
M,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-
M"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q
M/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N
M="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B
M;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!
M,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-
M"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,V5M
M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R
M/D]T:&5R(&-U6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I
M>F4],T0R/B0\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI
M9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG
M('-I>F4],T0R/C`\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@
M;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4
M+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B0\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V
M86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&
M3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/C`\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT
M9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4]
M,T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\
M9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B0\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H
M=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R
M/C`\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@
M05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B0\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B
M;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,
M63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/C`\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL
M93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B0\+V9O;G0^/"]T
M9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S
M='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B@Q,C@\+V9O
M;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]TF4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D
M92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q
M/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH
M6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!S:7IE/3-$
M,2!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T
M=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE
M9G0@6QE
M/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0Q(&YO
MF4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q('=I
M9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N
M/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$
M)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!S:7IE/3-$,2!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O
M/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/
M3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL
M93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B0\+V9O;G0^/"]T
M9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S
M='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B@Q,CPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^
M/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4]
M,T0R/B0\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX]
M,T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I
M>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.R@Y/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^
M#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/BDF(WA!,#L\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/BDF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T
M;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^
M/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/BDF(WA!,#L\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CPO='(^#0H\='(^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M
M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#LF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^
M/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^#0H\:'(@F4],T0S('=I
M9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N
M/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$
M)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!S:7IE/3-$,R!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O
M/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/
M3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!A
M;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0S(&YOF4],T0S(&YOF4],T0S('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S
M:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4]
M,T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-
M"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!S:7IE
M/3-$,R!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$
M8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS
M1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0S
M(&YOF4],T0S(&YO
M'0^/'-P86X^/"]S#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X)R!A;&EG;CTS1&IUF4],T0R/E=E
M(')E8V]G;FEZ960@:6X@;W1H97(-"FEN8V]M92`H97AP96YS92D@=&AE(&9O
M;&QO=VEN9R!G86EN"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-
M"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT
M9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]T6QE/3-$
M)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!S:7IE/3-$,2!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O
M/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/
M3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/CQB/C(P,3(\+V(^
M/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4]
M,T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\
M9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q/CQB/C(P,3$\+V(^
M/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4]
M,T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\
M9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q/CQB/C(P,3`\+V(^
M/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4]
M,T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]TF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF
M(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@
MF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!
M,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CPO='(^#0H\='(^#0H\=&0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!C;VQS
M6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.S4R/"]B/CPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O
M;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))
M04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B0\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T
M;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@
M05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B@Y,CPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&
M3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B0\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT
M9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS
M1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B@U-SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@
M6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@
M,65M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4]
M,T0R/DAE9&=E9"!I=&5MF4],T0R/CQB/BDF(WA!,#L\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L
M:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!
M34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,
M63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$
M,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T
M=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2
M.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!S:7IE/3-$,2!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^
M#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C
M9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!A;&EG;CTS
M1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q(&YO6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R
M/B0\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R
M:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4]
M,T0R/C,\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I
M9VAT('-I>F4],T0S(&YOF4],T0S(&YOF4],T0S('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO
M=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!S:7IE/3-$,R!N;W-H
M861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*
M/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@'0^/'-P86X^/"]S#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X)R!A;&EG;CTS1&IUF4],T0R/E=E(')E
M8V]G;FEZ960@=&AE#0IF;VQL;W=I;F&-H86YG92!C;VYT6QE
M/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#!P>#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X.R!&3TY4
M+5-)6D4Z(#$R6QE/3-$)T)/
M4D1%4BU#3TQ,05!313H@8V]L;&%P6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T
M9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-
M"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CPO
M='(^#0H\='(^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&-O;'-P86X],T0Q,CX-
M"CQHF4]
M,T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\+W1R
M/@T*/'1R/@T*/'1D/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@8V]LF4],T0Q/CQB/EEE87(@16YD960@
M2G5N928C>$$P.S,P+#PO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B
M;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;2!C;VQS6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$
M14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,65M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&
M3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/D=A:6X@*&QO"!E9F9E8W0@;V8@/&(^)#$R-RP\
M+V(^("0H,S0P*2!A;F0@)#$X.#PO9F]N=#X\+W`^#0H\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#LF(WA!,#L\+V9O
M;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4]
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M;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^
M/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4
M.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,65M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4
M+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/D=A:6X@*&QOF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S
M='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B0\+V(^
M/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&%L:6=N/3-$F4],T0R/CQB/BDF(WA!,#L\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\
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M#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/BDF(WA!,#L\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]TF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI
M9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]LF4]
M,T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\
M9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q
M/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]T6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4]
M,T0R/CQB/B@R,S$\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T
M=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/CQB/BDF(WA!,#L\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^
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M/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S
M:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T
M;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/BDF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CPO='(^#0H\+W1A
M8FQE/@T*/"]D:78^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X)R!A;&EG;CTS1&IUF4],T0R
M/D=A:6YS("AL;W-S97,I(&9R;VT-"F-H86YG97,@:6X@9F%I'!E;G-E*2X@5&AE2!C;VYT2!E8V]N;VUI8V%L;'D@;V9F"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O
M;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]T
M6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!S:7IE/3-$,2!N;W-H861E
M/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR
M('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q
M/CQB/C(P,3(\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M
M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-
M"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q
M/CQB/C(P,3$\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M
M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-
M"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q
M/CQB/C(P,3`\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M
M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]T6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-
M"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/BDF(WA!
M,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]TF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I
M>F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!
M34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B@X-3PO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-
M"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"$$P
M.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@
M6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R
M/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M
M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,65M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!
M34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/D-R961I="!C;VYT6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/BDF(WA!,#L\+V(^
M/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4]
M,T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\
M9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS
M1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!
M34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4
M.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,65M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4
M+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/D-O;6UO9&ET>2!C;VYT6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O
M;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS
M1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT
M('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]TF4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D
M92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q
M/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH
M6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!S:7IE/3-$
M,2!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T
M=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE
M9G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P
M.R8C>$$P.R@R,SD\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T
M=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/CQB/BDF(WA!,#L\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^
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M.S$Y.3PO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`]
M,T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P
M.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]TF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!S:7IE/3-$,R!N;W-H
M861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*
M/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/
M3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0S(&YOF4],T0S(&YOF4],T0S('=I9'1H/3-$
M,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\+W1R/@T*/"]T86)L93X-
M"CPO9&EV/CQS7!E.B!T97AT+VAT;6P[(&-H87)S970](G5S+6%S8VEI(@T*#0H\
M:'1M;#X-"B`@/&AE860^#0H@("`@/$U%5$$@:'1T'0O:'1M;#L@8VAA7!E/3-$=&5X="]J879A'0^/&1I=CX-"CQP('-T>6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)
M3BU43U`Z(#$R"#L@1D].5"U325I%.B`Q,G!X)SX-"B8C>$$P.SPOF4],T0Q/CQB/BA);B!M:6QL:6]NF4],T0Q/B8C
M>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C
M;VQS6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;2!C;VQS6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;2!C;VQS6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3""6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#!P>#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X)R!A
M;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/@T*/&9O;G0@"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF
M(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q/CQB/DYE='1I;F6QE
M/3-$)U!/4TE424]..B!R96QA=&EV93L@0D]45$]-.B`P+CAE>#L@5D525$E#
M04PM04Q)1TXZ(&)AF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$
M,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]L
MF4],T0Q/CQB/DYE="!&86ER/&)R("\^#0I686QU
M93PO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@
MF4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q/CQB/D%SF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$
M,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O
M;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF
M(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@
MF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!
M,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O
M;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^
M/"]T9#X-"CPO='(^#0H\='(^#0H\=&0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!C;VQS6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,
M63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B0\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@
M=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&%L:6=N/3-$F4],T0R/CQB
M/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT
M9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/C`\+V(^
M/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4]
M,T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T
M9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB
M/C`\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)A
MF4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O
M;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4]
M,T0R/CQB/C@R,#PO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T
M;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM
M3$5&5#H@,65M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG
M('-I>F4],T0R/D-O;6UE6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P
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M;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL
M93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.SPO
M8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R
M:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4]
M,T0R/CQB/C`\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M
M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T
M9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T
M9#X-"CPO='(^#0H\='(@8F=C;VQO6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO
M8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO
M8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO
M8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CPO='(^#0H\='(^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$=&]P
M/@T*/'`@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))
M04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V
M86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&
M3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/C4L,#$Y/"]B/CPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^
M/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@
M05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT
M9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS
M1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/C`\+V(^/"]F;VYT
M/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/CQB
M/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B
M;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,
M63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-
M"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL
M93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/C`\+V(^/"]F
M;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R
M/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,65M
M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R
M/D9O6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S
M='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P
M.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX]
M,T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I
M>F4],T0R/CQB/C$L-S,T/"]B/CPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q
M/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N
M="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B8C
M>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI
M9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG
M('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/C`\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$
M8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O
M;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CPO='(^#0H\='(^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$=&]P/@T*
M/'`@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q
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M;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@F4]
M,T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\
M9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB
M/B8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@
M86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))
M04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/C`\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N
M/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO
M8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CPO='(^#0H\='(@8F=C;VQO6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))
M04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V
M86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&
M3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/CF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@
M05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT
M9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS
M1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/CD\+V(^/"]F;VYT
M/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/CQB
M/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B
M;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R
M/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG
M('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI
M9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4
M+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/C0Q-CPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T
M9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG
M('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI
M9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4
M+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/C0Q-CPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T
M9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG
M('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI
M9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4
M+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/C0Q-CPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T
M9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-
M"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO
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M;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@6QE
M/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,65M)SX\9F]N
M="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/D1EF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@
M05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT
M9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS
M1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/C$V/"]B/CPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^
M/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@
M05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT
M9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS
M1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/C0V-SPO8CX\+V9O
M;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@
M05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT
M9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS
M1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/C0X,SPO8CX\+V9O
M;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB
M/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CPO='(^#0H\='(^#0H\
M=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&-O;'-P86X],T0T/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$
M)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!S:7IE/3-$,2!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O
M/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/
M3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!A
M;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S
M:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4]
M,T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-
M"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!S:7IE
M/3-$,2!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$
M8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS
M1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0Q
M(&YOF4],T0Q(&YO
MF4],T0Q
M('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\+W1R/@T*
M/'1R(&)G8V]L;W(],T0C0T-%149&/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1'1O6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,F5M
M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R
M/E1O=&%L/"]F;VYT/CPOF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@
M05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B0\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L
M:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&%L:6=N/3-$F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT
M9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P
M.R8C>$$P.S$Y+#`U,SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B
M;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO
M8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.S8Y+#6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B
M;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.S8Y+#8R
M,SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C
M-3DU.34Y)R!S:7IE/3-$,R!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\
M=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F
M9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I
M9VAT('-I>F4],T0S(&YOF4],T0S(&YOF4],T0S('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO
M=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!S:7IE/3-$,R!N;W-H
M861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*
M/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/
M3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0S(&YOF4],T0S(&YOF4],T0S('=I9'1H/3-$
M,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\+W1R/@T*/'1R/@T*/'1D
M/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@8V]LF4],T0Q/CQB
M/DQI86)I;&ET:65S/"]B/CPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#LF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-
M"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT
M9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V
M86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI
M9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]LF4]
M,T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\
M9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q
M/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N
M="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B
M;W1T;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q/B8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]T6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4]
M,T0R/CQB/C$P/"]B/CPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL
M93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B0\+V(^/"]F
M;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&%L:6=N/3-$F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-
M"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/C`\
M+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V
M86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/C$U-3PO8CX\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T
M;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"F4],T0R/CQB/C$V/"]B/CPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,
M63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0Q/CQB/B8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-
M"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL
M93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0Q/CQB/DQE=F5L(#(\
M+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0Q/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V
M86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL
M93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0Q/CQB/B8C>$$P.SPO
M8CX\+V9O;G0^/&)R("\^#0H\"6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#!P>#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@
M,7!X)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4]
M,T0Q/CQB/B8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]P/@T*/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI
M9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4
M+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0Q/CQB/D=R;W-S/"]B/CPO9F]N=#X\
M8G(@+SX-"CQP('-T>6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#!P>#L@34%21TE.+4)/
M5%1/33H@,'!X)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/@T*/&9O;G0@"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q
M/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/&)R("\^#0H\"6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU4
M3U`Z(#!P>#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,7!X)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&
M3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0Q/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO
M8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]P/@T*/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O
M;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-
M"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL
M93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0Q/CQB/DYE="!&86ER
M/&)R("\^#0I686QU93PO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B
M;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q/CQB/D%SF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$
M,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O
M;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF
M(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@
MF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!
M,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O
M;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^
M/"]T9#X-"CPO='(^#0H\='(^#0H\=&0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!C;VQS6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,
M63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B0\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!
M34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/C$L-S4R/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@
M=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.R8C
M>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\
M9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF
M(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@
MF4],T0R
M/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T
M9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4
M.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,65M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4
M+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/D-O;6UE6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O
M;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/C8S.3PO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^
M/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/C8S.3PO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R
M87`^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!
M,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/C8S
M.3PO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N
M;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P
M.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N
M="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B
M;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/C4Y.#PO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C
M>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\
M9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/C4Y.#PO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R
M/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI
M9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/C4Y.#PO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&
M3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T
M>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R
M/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI
M9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/C`\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL
M93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF
M;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT
M9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/C`\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V
M86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q
M/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N
M="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I
M9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]T6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@
M05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$
M,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O
M;G0@F4]
M,T0R/C`\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,
M63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE
M/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^
M/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/C`\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W
M6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!
M34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]TF4],T0R/C`\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W
M6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!
M34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4]
M,T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A
M;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/C(L-#(X
M/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4]
M,T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]TF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&
M3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T
M>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL
M93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF
M;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))
M04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$
M,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O
M;G0@F4]
M,T0R/C`\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,
M63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]TF4],T0R
M/C`\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@
M05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$
M,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O
M;G0@F4]
M,T0R/C`\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,
M63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE
M/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^
M/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/C`\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W
M6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!
M34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]TF4],T0R/CDL.#(Q/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\
M=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE
M/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^
M/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/C4U/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO
M=W)AF4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T
M9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/C4\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-
M"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R
M/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG
M;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&
M3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T
M>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF
M(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@
MF4],T0R
M/C,X.#PO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`]
M,T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!
M34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4]
M,T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\
M9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS
M1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]TF4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$
M,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T
M=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2
M.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!S:7IE/3-$,2!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^
M#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C
M9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!A;&EG;CTS
M1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O
M/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!S:7IE/3-$,2!N
M;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M
M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@
M6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4]
M,T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V
M86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4]
M,T0R/B0\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX]
M,T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I
M>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.S@S/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N
M/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!
M,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4
M+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B0\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V
M86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&
M3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.R@R,#0\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\
M9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T-/
M3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0S(&YOF4],T0S(&YOF4],T0S('=I9'1H/3-$
M,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T
M=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2
M.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!S:7IE/3-$,R!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^
M#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C
M9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!A;&EG;CTS
M1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0S(&YOF4],T0S(&YOF4],T0S('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O
M/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!S:7IE/3-$,R!N
M;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M
M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@
M6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQS6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4
M.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,65M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4
M+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/D1E6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS
M1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B0\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-
M"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL
M93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/C(U-SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O
M;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE
M/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^
M/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/BDF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B
M;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/"]T$$P.SPOF4],T0R/BAA*3PO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1'1O2!C3X-"CQF;VYT('-T>6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"#(P,3,[
M#0I);G9E"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O
M;G0^/"]T9#X-"CPO='(^#0H\='(^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&-O
M;'-P86X],T0X/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!S:7IE
M/3-$,2!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$
M8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS
M1&QE9G0@F4],T0Q/CQB/DIU;F4F(WA!,#LS,"P\+V(^/"]F;VYT
M/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C
M>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C
M;VQS6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4]
M,T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C
M;VQS6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R
M/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.S8Y+#8R,SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V
M86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,65M)SX\
M9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/D-A
M6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB
M/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B
M;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@
M05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]T6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/C8U
M,#PO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N
M;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B@U-#PO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@6QE
M/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,65M)SX\9F]N
M="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/D]T:&5R
M/"]F;VYT/CPOF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG
M('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI
M9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4
M+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/C,\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^
M#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P
M.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^
M/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/"]TF4],T0Q(&YO
MF4],T0Q
M('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\+W1R/@T*
M/'1R(&)G8V]L;W(],T0C0T-%149&/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1'1O6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,F5M
M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R
M/E)E8V]R9&5D(&)A6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/C6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!A
M;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0S(&YOF4],T0S(&YOF4],T0S('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S
M:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\+W1R/@T*/"]T86)L93X-"CPO9&EV/CQS'0^/&1I=CX-"CQP('-T>6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU4
M3U`Z(#$R"2!O
M9B!T:&5S92!I;G-T"F4],T0Q/CQB/BA);B!M:6QL:6]NF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q/CQB/D-OF4],T0Q/CQB/DYO
M=&5S)B-X03`[86YD/"]B/CPO9F]N=#X\+W`^#0H\"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O
M;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]L6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#!P>#L@34%2
M1TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/@T*/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#!P>#L@34%2
M1TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/@T*/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#!P>#L@34%21TE.
M+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/@T*/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#!P>#L@34%2
M1TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,7!X)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/@T*/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q/CQB/D1E6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#!P>#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@
M,7!X)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/@T*/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S
M:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T
M;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q/CQB/E1O=&%L/"]B/CPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF
M(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CPO='(^#0H\='(^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$
M8F]T=&]M(&-O;'-P86X],T0Q-CX-"CQHF4],T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$
M;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\+W1R/@T*/'1R/@T*/'1D/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@
M8V]L6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQS6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.S4X
M/"]B/CPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`]
M,T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4
M+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B0\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^
M#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&%L:6=N/3-$F4]
M,T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\
M9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB
M/B0\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&%L:6=N
M/3-$6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CPO='(^
M#0H\='(^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$=&]P/@T*/'`@6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4]
M,T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\
M9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF
M(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@
MF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T
M9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4]
M,T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\
M9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF
M(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@
M6QE/3-$
M)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,F5M)SX\9F]N="!S
M='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/DEN8VQU9&5D
M(&EN(&]T:&5R(&EN8V]M90T**&5XF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S
M='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P
M.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX]
M,T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I
M>F4],T0R/CQB/C`\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T
M=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^
M/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-
M"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/BDF(WA!,#L\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\+W1R
M/@T*/'1R/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1'1O6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M
M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,F5M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS
M1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/DEN8VQU9&5D(&EN(&]T
M:&5R(&-O;7!R96AE;G-I=F4-"FEN8V]M93PO9F]N=#X\+W`^#0H\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#LF(WA!
M,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/CQB/BDF(WA!,#L\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^
M#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS
M1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.SPO8CX\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H
M=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R
M/CQB/C`\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO
M=W)AF4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-
M"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"F4],T0R/CQB/BDF(WA!,#L\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\+W1R
M/@T*/'1R(&)G8V]L;W(],T0C0T-%149&/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1'1O6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@
M,65M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4]
M,T0R/D-O;G9E6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!
M34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T
M9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S
M='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B@Q-3PO
M8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E
M/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT
M('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P
M)R!S:7IE/3-$,2!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L
M:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A
M;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I
M>F4],T0Q(&YOF4]
M,T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q
M/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R
M/CQB/B0\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&%L
M:6=N/3-$F4],T0Q
M/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N
M="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B0\
M+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&%L:6=N/3-$
MF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL
M93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B0\+V(^/"]F
M;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&%L:6=N/3-$F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&
M3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B0\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO
M=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&%L:6=N/3-$6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU
M.34Y)R!S:7IE/3-$,R!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@
M=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F
M)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT
M('-I>F4],T0S(&YOF4],T0S(&YOF4],T0S('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^
M#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!S:7IE/3-$,R!N;W-H861E
M/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR
M('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"$$P.S,P+"`R,#$R/"]F;VYT/CPOF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL
M93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B0\+V(^/"]F
M;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&%L:6=N/3-$F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&
M3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B0\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO
M=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&%L:6=N/3-$F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!
M34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B0\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\
M=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&%L:6=N/3-$F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@
M05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B0\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L
M:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&%L:6=N/3-$F4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q/CQB/BA);B!M
M:6QL:6]NF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQS6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"$$P.V%N9#QBF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI
M9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q/CQB/D-O;6UO
M;CQBF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O
M;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q/CQB/E1O=&%L/"]B/CPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-
M"CPO='(^#0H\='(^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&-O;'-P86X],T0Q
M-CX-"CQHF4],T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\
M+W1R/@T*/'1R/@T*/'1D/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@8V]L6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;2!C;VQSF4]
M,T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C
M;VQS6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^
M/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R
M/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI
M9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4]
M,T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V
M86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&
M5#H@,65M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I
M>F4],T0R/E1O=&%L(')E86QI>F5D(&%N9"!U;G)E86QI>F5D(&=A:6YS#0HH
M;&]SF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF
M(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@
MF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T
M9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4]
M,T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\
M9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF
M(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@
MF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T
M9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M
M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,F5M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!
M34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/DEN8VQU9&5D(&EN(&]T:&5R(&EN8V]M
M90T**&5XF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!
M34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R
M/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG
M;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S
M='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT
M/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/BDF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T
M;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!
M,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/C`\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))
M04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/BDF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T
M9#X-"CPO='(^#0H\='(@8F=C;VQO6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"F4],T0R/B@X-3PO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL
M93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF
M;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!
M,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/B@X
M-3PO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N
M;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H
M861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF
M;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P
M,#`P)R!S:7IE/3-$,2!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@
M=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F
M)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT
M('-I>F4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^
M#0H\+W1R/@T*/'1R(&)G8V]L;W(],T0C0T-%149&/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1'1O6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM
M3$5&5#H@,65M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG
M('-I>F4],T0R/D)A;&%N8V4L(&5N9"!O9B!P97)I;V0\+V9O;G0^/"]P/@T*
M/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@
M05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B0\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B
M;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,
M63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/C4\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL
M93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B0\+V9O;G0^/"]T
M9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S
M='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/C(P/"]F;VYT
M/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/B8C
M>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\
M9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q
M/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N
M="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#LF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI
M9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^#0H\:'(@F4],T0S('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E
M/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT
M('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y
M)R!S:7IE/3-$,R!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L
M:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A
M;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I
M>F4],T0S(&YOF4]
M,T0S(&YOF4],T0S('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\
M+W1R/@T*/'1R(&)G8V]L;W(],T0C0T-%149&/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1'1O
M6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&
M5#H@,65M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I
M>F4],T0R/D-H86YG92!I;B!U;G)E86QI>F5D(&=A:6YS(&EN8VQU9&5D#0II
M;B!O=&AEF4],T0R
M/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI
M9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O
M;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"7!E.B!T97AT+VAT;6P[(&-H87)S970](G5S+6%S
M8VEI(@T*#0H\:'1M;#X-"B`@/&AE860^#0H@("`@/$U%5$$@:'1T'0O:'1M;#L@8VAA7!E/3-$=&5X="]J879A'0^/&1I=CX-"CQP('-T>6QE/3-$)TU!
M4D=)3BU43U`Z(#$R"#L@1D].5"U325I%.B`Q,G!X)SX-
M"B8C>$$P.SPO6QE/3-$)T-/
M3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!S:7IE/3-$,2!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO
M=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2
M.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@F4],T0Q/CQB/DIU;F4F
M(WA!,#LS,"P\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M
M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQS6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQS6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C
M>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\
M9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB
M/B0\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&%L:6=N
M/3-$F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O
M;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4]
M,T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]T6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO
M8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&
M3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T
M>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H
M861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF
M;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P
M,#`P)R!S:7IE/3-$,2!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@
M=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F
M)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4]
M,T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.S$L,3,W/"]B/CPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4]
M,T0R/B0\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX]
M,T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I
M>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.S$L,SF4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]TF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE
M/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!S:7IE/3-$,R!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D
M92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$
M)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y
M)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0S(&YOF4],T0S(&YO'1087)T7S(Y
M83)F.39E7S0P9F-?-&,R85]B,3EE7S4U,C@S-V(P,31E,@T*0V]N=&5N="U,
M;V-A=&EO;CH@9FEL93HO+R]#.B\R.6$R9CDV95\T,&9C7S1C,F%?8C$Y95\U
M-3(X,S=B,#$T93(O5V]R:W-H965T'0O:F%V87-C3X-"B`@("`\=&%B;&4@8VQA2!A;F0@17%U:7!M96YT
M/"]T9#X-"B`@("`@("`@/'1D(&-L87-S/3-$=&5X=#X\9&EV/@T*/'`@#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X)R!A
M;&EG;CTS1&IUF4],T0R/E1H92!C;VUP;VYE;G1S(&]F#0IP2!A
M;F0@97%U:7!M96YT('=E"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\
M+W1R/@T*/'1R/@T*/'1D/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@8V]LF4],T0Q/CQB/C(P,3(\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@
M=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!
M,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q/CQB/C(P,3$\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@
M=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/"]T6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4]
M,T0R/B0\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX]
M,T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I
M>F4],T0R/C4S,SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N
M;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V
M86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/C(L,S0U/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^
M#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]T6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/C8L-C`Q/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N
M/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/"]T6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/C$L.3DQ/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$
M8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/"]TF4],T0Q(&YO
MF4],T0Q
M('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\+W1R/@T*
M/'1R(&)G8V]L;W(],T0C0T-%149&/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1'1O6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,F5M
M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R
M/E1O=&%L+"!A="!C;W-T/"]F;VYT/CPOF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4
M+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^
M/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N
M="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B8C
M>$$P.R8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.S$Y+#(S,3PO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V
M86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.S$W+#DY,3PO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C
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M/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/CQB/BDF(WA!,#L\+V(^/"]F;VYT
M/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S
M='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT
M/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/BDF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CPO='(^#0H\='(^#0H\
M=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&-O;'-P86X],T0T/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$
M)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!S:7IE/3-$,2!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O
M/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/
M3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!A
M;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q(&YOF4]
M,T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4]
M,T0R/CQB/B0\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M
M(&%L:6=N/3-$6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S
M:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#LF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT^#0H\:'(@F4],T0S('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$
M;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I
M>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;3X-"CQH3X-
M"CPO:'1M;#X-"@T*+2TM+2TM/5].97AT4&%R=%\R.6$R9CDV95\T,&9C7S1C
M,F%?8C$Y95\U-3(X,S=B,#$T93(-"D-O;G1E;G0M3&]C871I;VXZ(&9I;&4Z
M+R\O0SHO,CEA,F8Y-F5?-#!F8U\T8S)A7V(Q.65?-34R.#,W8C`Q-&4R+U=O
M'0O:'1M
M;#L@8VAA7!E(&-O;G1E;G0],T0G
M=&5X="]H=&UL.R!C:&%R3X-"CQF;VYT('-T
M>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"#L@1D].5"U325I%.B`Q,G!X)SX-"B8C>$$P.SPOF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T
M9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]LF4]
M,T0Q/CQB/E=E:6=H=&5D/&)R("\^#0I!=F5R86=E)B-X03`[3&EF93PO8CX\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E
M/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\+W1R/@T*/'1R/@T*/'1D/CPO=&0^#0H\
M=&0@8V]L6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"$$P.WEE87)S/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T
M=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/"]TF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@
M05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$
M,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O
M;G0@F4]
M,T0R/C4@>65A6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@
M,65M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4]
M,T0R/D-U6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG
M('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/"]TF4],T0Q(&YO
MF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CPO='(^
M#0H\='(@8F=C;VQO6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q
M/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N
M="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I
M9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"65A6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!A;&EG
M;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0S(&YOF4],T0S(&YOF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CPO='(^#0H\+W1A8FQE/@T*/"]D:78^/'-P86X^/"]S
M3X-"CPO:'1M;#X-"@T*+2TM+2TM/5].97AT4&%R=%\R.6$R9CDV95\T,&9C
M7S1C,F%?8C$Y95\U-3(X,S=B,#$T93(-"D-O;G1E;G0M3&]C871I;VXZ(&9I
M;&4Z+R\O0SHO,CEA,F8Y-F5?-#!F8U\T8S)A7V(Q.65?-34R.#,W8C`Q-&4R
M+U=O'0O
M:'1M;#L@8VAA7!E(&-O;G1E;G0]
M,T0G=&5X="]H=&UL.R!C:&%R6EN9R!!;6]U;G0@
M;V8@1V]O9'=I;&P\+W1D/@T*("`@("`@("`\=&0@8VQA3X-"CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"2!S96=M96YT('=E""6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"$$P.V%S/"]B/CPO9F]N=#X\+W`^#0H\"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3""6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"F4]
M,T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C
M;VQS6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q/CQB/D)A;&%N8V4F(WA!,#MAF4],T0Q/CQB/F]F)B-X03`[2G5N928C>$$P.S,P+#PO
M8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]P/@T*/'`@F4],T0Q/CQB/C(P,3$\+V(^
M/"]F;VYT/CPOF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V
M86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q/CQB/D%C
M<75IF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQS6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T
M9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]L6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#!P>#L@34%21TE.+4)/
M5%1/33H@,'!X)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/@T*/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#!P>#L@
M34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/@T*/&9O;G0@$$P
M.TIU;F4F(WA!,#LS,"P\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO6QE/3-$)TU!
M4D=)3BU43U`Z(#!P>#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,7!X)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I
M9VAT/@T*/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\
M+W1R/@T*/'1R/@T*/'1D/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@8V]L6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S
M:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T
M;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE
M/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^
M/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$
M,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O
M;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF
M(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@
MF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!
M,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O
M;G0^/"]T9#X-"CPO='(^#0H\='(^#0H\=&0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!C;VQS6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q
M/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N
M="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B0\+V9O
M;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\
M9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/C@Y
M/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4]
M,T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V
M86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CPO='(^#0H\='(^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$=&]P/@T*
M/'`@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/C$L,3$X/"]F
M;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R
M/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI
M9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/C$S/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N
M/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!
M,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/C@\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))
M04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q
M/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N
M="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B8C
M>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI
M9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG
M('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/CF4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O
M;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/BDF(WA!,#L\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO
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M='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-
M05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,65M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@
M05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/D]N;&EN92!397)V:6-EF4],T0R/C8L,SF4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/C`\+V9O
M;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG
M('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB
M/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B
M;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB
M/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CPO='(^#0H\='(^#0H\
M=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$=&]P/@T*/'`@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/C0L,#(T/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@
M=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$
M,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O
M;G0@F4]
M,T0R/C0\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,
M63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE
M/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^
M/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/C0L,38W/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M
M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^
M/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"F4],T0R/C@P,CPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/C@Q,SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R
M87`^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB
M/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B
M;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB
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M+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/C4L,3`S/"]B/CPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O
M;G0@F4],T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N
M;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M
M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C
M,#`P,#`P)R!S:7IE/3-$,2!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\
M=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F
M9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I
M9VAT('-I>F4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO
M=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!S:7IE/3-$,2!N;W-H
M861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*
M/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/
M3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$
M,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\+W1R/@T*/'1R(&)G8V]L
M;W(],T0C0T-%149&/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1'1O6QE/3-$
M)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,F5M)SX\9F]N="!S
M='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/E1O=&%L/"]F
M;VYT/CPOF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I
M>F4],T0R/B0\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI
M9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG
M('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.S$R+#,Y-#PO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&
M3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B0\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT
M9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS
M1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.S$T
M,#PO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N
M;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P
M.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N
M="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B
M;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB
M/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B
M;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.R@V+#,R
M-RD\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)A
MF4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT
M9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P
M.R8C>$$P.S$S+#0U,CPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B
M;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE
M/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!S:7IE/3-$,R!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D
M92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$
M)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y
M)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0S(&YOF4],T0S(&YOF4],T0S('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$
M;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I
M>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4]
M,T0S(&YOF4],T0S
M(&YOF4]
M,T0S('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@
M=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!S:7IE/3-$,R!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S
M:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE
M/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@3X-"CPO:'1M;#X-"@T*+2TM+2TM/5].
M97AT4&%R=%\R.6$R9CDV95\T,&9C7S1C,F%?8C$Y95\U-3(X,S=B,#$T93(-
M"D-O;G1E;G0M3&]C871I;VXZ(&9I;&4Z+R\O0SHO,CEA,F8Y-F5?-#!F8U\T
M8S)A7V(Q.65?-34R.#,W8C`Q-&4R+U=O'0O:'1M;#L@8VAA7!E(&-O;G1E;G0],T0G=&5X="]H=&UL.R!C:&%R3X-"CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3""F4],T0Q/CQB/D=R;W-S/&)R("\^#0I#87)R>6EN9SQB
MF%T:6]N/"]B/CPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$
M,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O
M;G0@6EN9SQBF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQS6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;2!C;VQS6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q
M/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;2!C;VQSF4]
M,T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C
M;VQSF4],T0Q
M/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQS
M6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q
M/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQS
MF4],T0Q/B8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQS6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"6QE
M/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,65M)SX\9F]N
M="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/E1E8VAN
M;VQO9WDM8F%S960F(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)U!/4TE424].
M.B!R96QA=&EV93L@0D]45$]-.B`P+CAE>#L@5D525$E#04PM04Q)1TXZ(&)A
M6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/C,L-34P
M/"]B/CPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`]
M,T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4
M+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B0\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^
M#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&%L:6=N/3-$F4],T0R/CQB/BDF(WA!,#L\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N
M/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,
M63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B0\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@
M=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&%L:6=N/3-$6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/BDF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T
M;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/"]T6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/C$Q,SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@
M6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T
M9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/C$U/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^
M#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]TF4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C
M>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O
M;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"$$P
M.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@
M6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4]
M,T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A
M;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS
M1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT
M('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I
M>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/"]TF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,
M63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-
M"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL
M93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/C0P.#PO8CX\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R
M/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4]
M,T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\
M9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS
M1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,
M63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]TF4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO
M=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!S:7IE/3-$,2!N;W-H
M861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*
M/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/
M3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$
M,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T
M=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2
M.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!S:7IE/3-$,2!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^
M#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C
M9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.S8L,3`W/"]B/CPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@
MF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG
M('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B0\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$
M8F]T=&]M(&%L:6=N/3-$F4]
M,T0R/CQB/BDF(WA!,#L\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$
M8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@
M05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B0\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L
M:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&%L:6=N/3-$6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/BDF(WA!
M,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/"]TF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/
M3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!S:7IE/3-$,R!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO
M=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2
M.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!A;&EG
M;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0S(&YOF4],T0S(&YOF4],T0S('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D
M92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q
M/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH
M6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!S:7IE/3-$
M,R!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T
M=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE
M9G0@6QE
M/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0S(&YO
MF4],T0S(&YOF4],T0S('=I
M9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\+W1R/@T*/"]T
M86)L93X-"CQP('-T>6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#!P>#L@34%21TE.+4)/
M5%1/33H@,'!X.R!&3TY4+5-)6D4Z(#9P>"6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"2UB
M87-E9"!I;G1A;F=I8FQE(&%S$$P.S,P+"`R,#$R(&%N
M9"`R,#$Q+"!R97-P96-T:79E;'DL(&]F#0IN970@8V%R3X-"CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3""F4],T0Q/CQB/BA);B!M:6QL:6]NF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;2!C;VQS6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3""6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#!P>#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,7!X)R!A
M;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/@T*/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQS6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3""6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#!P>#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@
M,7!X)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/@T*/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q/CQB/EEE
M87(@16YD960@2G5N928C>$$P.S,P+#PO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V
M86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT
M9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-
M"CPO='(^#0H\='(^#0H\=&0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!C;VQSF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@
M05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B0\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L
M:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&%L:6=N/3-$6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"65AF4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V
M86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P
M.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N
M="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B
M;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/C,F(WA!,#MY96%R6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-
M"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/C$\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@
M;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4
M+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))
M04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V
M86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&
M3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/C6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/C`\+V9O;G0^
M/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT
M9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]TF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P
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M;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"65AF4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO
M8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O
M;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/C0F(WA!,#MY
M96%R6QE
M/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!S:7IE/3-$,2!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D
M92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$
M)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!
M,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/
M3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!S:7IE/3-$,2!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO
M=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2
M.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O
M;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$
M14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,F5M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&
M3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/E1O=&%L/"]F;VYT/CPOF4],T0Q/B8C
M>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\
M9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB
M/B0\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&%L:6=N
M/3-$6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"$$P.WEE87)S/"]B/CPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R
M87`^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4
M+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B0\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V
M86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&
M3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.S$R,CPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R
M87`^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"65A6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$
M)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0S(&YOF4],T0S(&YOF4]
M,T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\
M9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2
M.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0S(&YOF4],T0S(&YOF4],T0Q/B8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S
M:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CPO='(^#0H\+W1A8FQE/@T*
M/"]D:78^/'-P86X^/"]S'!E;G-E
M(%)E;&%T960@=&\@26YT86YG:6)L92!!""F4],T0Q/CQB/BA);B!M:6QL:6]NF4],T0Q/B8C
M>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C
M;VQSF4],T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O
M/CPO=&0^#0H\+W1R/@T*/'1R/@T*/'1D/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@8V]L6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"$$P.S,P+#PO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT
M9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-
M"CPO='(^#0H\='(^#0H\=&0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!C;VQSF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4
M+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B0\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V
M86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&
M3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/C4Y-SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/C0S,CPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R
M/C,V-SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`]
M,T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R
M/C,P-#PO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`]
M,T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/C(S-#PO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/C$L,C,V/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\
M=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]TF4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q/B8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S
M:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#LF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT^#0H\:'(@F4],T0S('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$
M;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\+W1R/@T*/"]T86)L93X-"CPO9&EV/CQS7!E.B!T
M97AT+VAT;6P[(&-H87)S970](G5S+6%S8VEI(@T*#0H\:'1M;#X-"B`@/&AE
M860^#0H@("`@/$U%5$$@:'1T'0O:'1M;#L@8VAA7!E
M/3-$=&5X="]J879A'0^/&1I=CX-"CQP('-T>6QE
M/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#$R"$$P.S,P+"`R,#$R(&%N9"`R,#$Q.CPO9F]N
M=#X\+W`^#0H\#L@1D].5"U325I%.B`Q,G!X)SX-"B8C>$$P.SPO6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQS6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q/CQB/E-T871E9#QB6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z
M(#!P>#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,7!X)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/@T*/&9O
M;G0@"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/CQB
M/E)A=&4\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPOF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T
M9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]L6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#!P>#L@34%21TE.+4)/
M5%1/33H@,'!X)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/@T*/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/CQB/E)E8V]R9"8C>$$P.T1A
M=&4\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPOF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#LF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^
M/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]L6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#!P>#L@34%21TE.
M+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/@T*/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/CQB/E!A>28C>$$P.T1A
M=&4\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPOF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#LF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^
M/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]L6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#!P>#L@34%21TE.
M+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/@T*/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/CQB/E)E8V]R9`T*1&%T
M93PO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]P/@T*/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^
M/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q/CQB/DEN=&5R97-T/"]B/CPO
M9F]N=#X\+W`^#0H\"6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$
M,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\+W1R/@T*/'1R/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^
M/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI
M9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]LF4]
M,T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\
M9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q
M/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N
M="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B
M;W1T;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q/B8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S
M:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#LF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q
M/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N
M="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#LF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI
M9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]LF4]
M,T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\
M9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#LF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V
M86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]TF4],T0Q/CQB/DYO=&5S/"]B/CPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#LF(WA!
M,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O
M;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^
M/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#LF(WA!,#L\+V9O
M;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#LF(WA!,#L\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#LF(WA!
M,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/"]T6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-
M05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,65M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@
M05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/E-E$$P.S(W+"8C>$$P.S(P,3,\
M+V9O;G0^/"]P/@T*/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@
M6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS
M1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT
M('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4]
M,T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V
M86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/C$N,#`P)3PO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"$$P.S$U/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$
M8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#LF
M(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@
MF4],T0R
M/DUA6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL
M93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF
M;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL
M93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF
M;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)U1%
M6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,65M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL
M93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/DIU;F4F(WA!,#LQ
M+"`R,#$T/"]F;VYT/CPOF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@
M05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4]
M,T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\
M9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS
M1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^
M/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/C,N,#0Y)3PO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^
M/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C
M>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\
M9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS
M1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#LF(WA!,#L\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/DYO=F5M
M8F5R(#$U/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)A
MF4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#LF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^
M/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/D1E8V5M8F5R(#$\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$
M)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,65M)SX\9F]N="!S
M='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/E-E$$P.S(U+"8C>$$P.S(P,34\+V9O;G0^/"]P/@T*/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V
M86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q
M/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N
M="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I
M9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T
M9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/DUAF4],T0R/B8C
M>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\
M9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#LF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V
M86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/DUAF4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE
M/3-$,3XF(WA!,#LF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B
M;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/E-E6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE
M/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,65M)SX\9F]N
M="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/D9E8G)U
M87)Y)B-X03`[."P@,C`Q-CPO9F]N=#X\+W`^#0H\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#LF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^
M/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/C6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL
M93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF
M;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT
M9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/D9E8G)U87)Y)B-X03`[,3PO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^
M/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"28C>$$P.S@\+V9O;G0^
M/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))
M04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4]
M,T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4]
M,T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A
M;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'
M24XM3$5&5#H@,65M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))
M04PG('-I>F4],T0R/DIU;F4F(WA!,#LQ+"`R,#$Y/"]F;VYT/CPOF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P
M.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N
M="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I
M9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!
M34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P
M.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N
M="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B
M;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/C0N,S6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!
M34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P
M.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N
M="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#LF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI
M9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/DYO=F5M8F5R(#$U/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\
M=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE
M/3-$,3XF(WA!,#LF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B
M;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/D1E8V5M8F5R(#$\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI
M9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,65M)SX\
M9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/D]C
M=&]B97(F(WA!,#LQ+"`R,#(P/"]F;VYT/CPOF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&
M3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T
M>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG
M('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF
M(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@
MF4],T0R
M/C,N,3,W)3PO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R
M87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$
M,3XF(WA!,#LF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T
M;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/E-E6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&
M5#H@,65M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I
M>F4],T0R/D9E8G)U87)Y)B-X03`[."P@,C`R,3PO9F]N=#X\+W`^#0H\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#LF
M(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@
MF4],T0R
M/C4P,#PO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`]
M,T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R
M/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG
M;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O
M;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/D9E8G)U87)Y
M(#$\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!
M34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"$$P.S$L(#(P,SD\+V9O;G0^/"]P/@T*/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4]
M,T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A
M;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/C4N,C0P
M)3PO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N
M;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4]
M,T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4]
M,T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A
M;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#LF
M(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@
MF4],T0R
M/DYO=F5M8F5R(#$U/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M
M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#LF(WA!,#L\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/D1E8V5M
M8F5R(#$\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,65M)SX\
M9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/D]C
M=&]B97(F(WA!,#LQ+"`R,#0P/"]F;VYT/CPOF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&
M3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T
M>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG
M('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF
M(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@
MF4],T0R
M/C0N-38W)3PO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R
M87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$
M,3XF(WA!,#LF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T
M;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/E-E6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)U1%
M6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,65M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL
M93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/D9E8G)U87)Y)B-X
M03`[."P@,C`T,3PO9F]N=#X\+W`^#0H\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#LF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-
M"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/C$L,#`P/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^
M#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S
M:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T
M;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/C4N,S`P)3PO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))
M04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"2`X/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L
M:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF
M(WA!,#LF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^
M/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/D%U9W5S="`Q/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T
M=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#LF(WA!
M,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/D%U
M9W5S="`X/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)A
MF4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]TF4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q/B8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S
M:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T
M;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT
M9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S
M:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#LF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF
M(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@
MF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O
M;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-
M"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q
M/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]TF4],T0R/C$P+#F4],T0Q/B8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S
M:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T
M;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT
M9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S
M:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T
M;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF
M(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@
MF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O
M;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#LF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-
M"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q
M/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N
M="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CPO='(^#0H\='(^#0H\
M=&0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!C;VQSF4],T0Q/B8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S
M:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T
M;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE
M/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@
M8V]LF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$
M,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]L
MF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF
M(WA!,#LF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@
M8V]LF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$
M,3XF(WA!,#LF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T
M;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE
M/3-$,3XF(WA!,#LF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B
M;W1T;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q/B8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]T6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M
M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,65M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS
M1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/DIU;F4F(WA!,#LQ-2P@
M,C`Q,SPO9F]N=#X\+W`^#0H\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\
M9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#LF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V
M86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/C$L,C4P/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@
M=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$
M,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O
M;G0@F4]
M,T0R/C`N,#`P)3PO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N
M;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT
M9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S
M:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#LF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF
M(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@
MF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O
M;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-
M"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q
M/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]TF4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT
M9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S
M:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T
M;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#LF
M(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@
MF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T
M9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V
M86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P
M.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N
M="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B
M;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/"]TF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P
M.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N
M="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B0\+V9O
M;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\
M9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C
M>$$P.R8C>$$P.S$R+#`P,#PO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q
M/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N
M="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B
M;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!
M,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-
M"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q
M/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N
M="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B
M;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$
M,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O
M;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#LF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T
M9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4]
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M;VT^#0H\:'(@F4],T0S('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D
M92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q
M/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N
M="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B
M;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!
M,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-
M"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q
M/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N
M="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B
M;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$
M,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O
M;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#LF(WA!,#L\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT
M9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4]
M,T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\
M9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@'0^/&1I=CX-
M"CQP('-T>6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#$R"'0@9FEV92!Y96%R6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#!P>#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X
M.R!&3TY4+5-)6D4Z(#$R6QE
M/3-$)T)/4D1%4BU#3TQ,05!313H@8V]L;&%PF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/"]TF4],T0Q(&YO
MF4],T0Q/CQB/EEE87(@16YD
M:6YG($IU;F4F(WA!,#LS,"P\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N
M/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQS6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/C,L,#`P/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@
M=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]TF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL
M93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF
M;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/C(L-3`P
M/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4]
M,T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]TF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I
M>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/C4L,C4P/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L
M:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]TF4]
M,T0Q(&YO6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I
M9VAT('-I>F4],T0S(&YOF4],T0S(&YO'1087)T7S(Y83)F.39E7S0P9F-?
M-&,R85]B,3EE7S4U,C@S-V(P,31E,@T*0V]N=&5N="U,;V-A=&EO;CH@9FEL
M93HO+R]#.B\R.6$R9CDV95\T,&9C7S1C,F%?8C$Y95\U-3(X,S=B,#$T93(O
M5V]R:W-H965T'0O:F%V87-C3X-"B`@
M("`\=&%B;&4@8VQA&5S/"]T9#X-"B`@("`@("`@/'1D(&-L87-S/3-$=&5X
M=#X\9&EV/@T*/'`@#L@34%21TE.
M+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X)R!A;&EG;CTS1&IUF4],T0R/E1H92!C;VUP;VYE;G1S
M(&]F('1H90T*#L@1D].5"U325I%.B`Q,G!X)SX-"B8C
M>$$P.SPOF4],T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO
M=&0^#0H\+W1R/@T*/'1R/@T*/'1D/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@8V]LF4],T0Q/CQB/EEE
M87(@16YD960@2G5N928C>$$P.S,P+#PO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V
M86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S
M:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T
M;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE
M/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^
M/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$
M,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CPO='(^#0H\='(^#0H\=&0^/"]T9#X-
M"CQT9"!C;VQS6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG
M('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B0\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$
M8F]T=&]M(&%L:6=N/3-$6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@
M,65M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4]
M,T0R/E4N4RX@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P
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M;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/C(P
M.3PO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N
M;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M
M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,65M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,
M63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/DEN=&5R;F%T:6]N86P\+V9O;G0^/"]P/@T*
M/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO
M8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2
M.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!S:7IE/3-$,2!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^
M#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C
M9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!A;&EG;CTS
M1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O
M/CPO=&0^#0H\+W1R/@T*/'1R(&)G8V]L;W(],T0C0T-%149&/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1'1O6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-
M05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,F5M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@
M05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/D-U6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQS6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM
M3$5&5#H@,65M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG
M('-I>F4],T0R/D1E9F5R&5S/"]F;VYT/CPOF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P
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M;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/C(\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))
M04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^
M#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!S:7IE/3-$,2!N;W-H861E
M/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR
M('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2
M.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q(&YO6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-
M"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I
M>F4],T0R/B0\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI
M9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG
M('-I>F4],T0R/C8L,C4S/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T
M=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/"]TF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2
M.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!S:7IE/3-$,R!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^
M#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C
M9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!A;&EG;CTS
M1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0S(&YOF4],T0S(&YOF4],T0S('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O
M/CPO=&0^#0H\+W1R/@T*/"]T86)L93X-"CPO9&EV/CQS3X-"CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"#L@1D].5"U3
M25I%.B`Q,G!X)SX-"B8C>$$P.SPOF4],T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E
M/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\+W1R/@T*/'1R/@T*/'1D/CPO=&0^#0H\
M=&0@8V]LF4],T0Q/CQB/EEE87(@16YD960@2G5N928C>$$P.S,P+#PO8CX\+V9O
M;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O
M;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@
M05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B0\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B
M;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,
M63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CDL-3F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]TF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!
M34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T
M9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S
M='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/C(P+#8V
M-SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/C$Y+#(P.3PO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^
M/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO
M=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!S:7IE/3-$,2!N;W-H
M861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*
M/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/
M3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q(&YO6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R
M/B0\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R
M:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4]
M,T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.S(X+#`W,3PO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]T
MF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C
M-3DU.34Y)R!S:7IE/3-$,R!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\
M=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F
M9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I
M9VAT('-I>F4],T0S(&YOF4],T0S(&YOF4],T0S('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO
M=&0^#0H\+W1R/@T*/"]T86)L93X-"CPO9&EV/CQS2!2871E(&%N9"!0'0^/&1I=CX-"CQP('-T>6QE/3-$)TU!
M4D=)3BU43U`Z(#$R"&5S(&-O;7!U=&5D(&%T('1H92!5+E,N
M(&9E9&5R86P-"G-T871U=&]R>2!R871E(&%N9"!O=7(@969F96-T:79E(')A
M=&4@=V5R92!A#L@1D].5"U325I%
M.B`Q,G!X)SX-"B8C>$$P.SPOF4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q/B8C
M>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C
M;VQS6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4]
M,T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C
M;VQS6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4]
M,T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C
M;VQS6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4
M.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,65M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4
M+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/D9E9&5R86P@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB
M/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B
M;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!
M,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-
M"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q
M/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N
M="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B
M;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/"]T&5D(&%T(&QO=V5R
M#0IR871EF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!
M34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/"]TF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
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MF4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT
M9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^
M/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,
M63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@
M,F5M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4]
M,T0R/D]T:&5R(')E8V]N8VEL:6YG(&ET96US+`T*;F5T/"]F;VYT/CPOF4],T0Q/B8C
M>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\
M9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB
M/B8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@
M86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))
M04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/C`N,B4\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L
M:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO
M8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&
M3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T
M>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2
M.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!S:7IE/3-$,2!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^
M#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C
M9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!A;&EG;CTS
M1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O
M/CPO=&0^#0H\+W1R/@T*/'1R(&)G8V]L;W(],T0C0T-%149&/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1'1O6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-
M05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,V5M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@
M05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/D5F9F5C=&EV92!R871E/"]F;VYT/CPOF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P
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M;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@F4]
M,T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\
M9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS
M1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4
M+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0S
M(&YOF4],T0S(&YO
MF4],T0S
M('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L
M:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE
M/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!S:7IE/3-$,R!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D
M92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$
M)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@3X-"CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3""6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!
M,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CPO='(^#0H\='(^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M
M(&-O;'-P86X],T0X/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!S
M:7IE/3-$,2!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N
M/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG
M;CTS1&QE9G0@F4],T0Q/CQB/DIU;F4F(WA!,#LS,"P\+V(^/"]F
M;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q
M/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;2!C;VQS6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;2!C;VQS6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4]
M,T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\
M9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q
M/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N
M="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CPO='(^#0H\='(^#0H\
M=&0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!C;VQS6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M
M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,65M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,
M63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/E-T;V-K+6)A6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4]
M,T0R/B0\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX]
M,T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I
M>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.S$L,#F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]T'!E;G-E(&ET96US/"]F;VYT/CPOF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P
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M;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/C$L
M,S(Q/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]TF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!
M34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T
M9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S
M='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/C4W,3PO
M8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/C0V,SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@
M6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q
M/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N
M="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I
M9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]T6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&
M3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T
M>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'
M24XM3$5&5#H@,65M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))
M04PG('-I>F4],T0R/D]T:&5R(')E=F5N=64@:71E;7,\+V9O;G0^/"]P/@T*
M/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!S:7IE/3-$,2!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S
M:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE
M/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P
M,#`P)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q(&YO6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V
M86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&
M5#H@,65M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I
M>F4],T0R/DQEF4],T0R
M/C`\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$
M,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T
M=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2
M.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!S:7IE/3-$,2!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^
M#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C
M9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3""!A6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P
M.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@
M6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"F4],T0Q
M('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L
M:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE
M/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!S:7IE/3-$,2!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D
M92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$
M)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@F4],T0Q/CQB
M/D1E9F5RF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P
M.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQS
MF4],T0Q/B8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4
M+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B0\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^
M#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&%L:6=N/3-$F4],T0R/CQB/BDF(WA!,#L\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N
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M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,65M)SX\
M9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/E5N
M6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^
M/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/BDF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CPO='(^#0H\='(@8F=C;VQO
M6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F%T:6]N/"]F;VYT/CPOF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS
M1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.SPO8CX\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H
M=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R
M/CQB/B@V-S`\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M
M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/CQB/BDF(WA!,#L\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\
M=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&
M3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T
M>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM
M3$5&5#H@,65M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG
M('-I>F4],T0R/D]T:&5R/"]F;VYT/CPOF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4
M+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^
M/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N
M="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B@Q
M-#PO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI
M9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]TF4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO
M=&0^#0H\+W1R/@T*/'1R(&)G8V]L;W(],T0C0T-%149&/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1'1O6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'
M24XM3$5&5#H@,F5M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))
M04PG('-I>F4],T0R/D1E9F5RF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG
M('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI
M9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4
M+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B@R+#4X-CPO8CX\+V9O;G0^
M/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^
M/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/"]TF4],T0Q(&YO
MF4],T0Q
M('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\+W1R/@T*
M/'1R(&)G8V]L;W(],T0C0T-%149&/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1'1O6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,V5M
M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R
M/DYE="!D969E6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/C$T,CPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B
M;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF
M(WA!,#LF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^
M#0H\:'(@F4],T0S('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O
M/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!S:7IE/3-$,R!N
M;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M
M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@
MF4],T0Q/CQB/E)EF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/"]T6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB
M/C(L,#,U/"]B/CPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N
M;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS
M1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B0\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-
M"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL
M93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/C(L-#8W/"]F;VYT
M/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/B8C
M>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]T`T*
M;&EA8FEL:71I97,\+V9O;G0^/"]P/@T*/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B
M;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B@Q+#0U-CPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@
MF4],T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D
M92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q
M/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH
M6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!S:7IE/3-$
M,2!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T
M=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE
M9G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4]
M,T0R/B0\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX]
M,T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I
M>F4],T0R/C$L,#$Q/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M
M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]T
MF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C
M-3DU.34Y)R!S:7IE/3-$,R!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\
M=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F
M9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I
M9VAT('-I>F4],T0S(&YOF4],T0S(&YOF5D(%1A>"!"96YE9FET'0^/&1I=CX-"CQP('-T>6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z
M(#!P>#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X)R!A;&EG;CTS1&IUF4],T0R/E1H
M92!A9V=R96=A=&4@8VAA;F=EF5D('1A>"!B96YE9FET#L@1D].5"U325I%.B`Q,G!X)SX-"B8C>$$P.SPOF4],T0Q/CQB/BA);B!M:6QL:6]NF4]
M,T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;2!C;VQSF4]
M,T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C
M;VQSF4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQS6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQS6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQS6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-
M05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,65M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@
M05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/D)A;&%N8V4L(&)E9VEN;FEN9R!O9B!Y96%R/"]F
M;VYT/CPOF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I
M>F4],T0R/CQB/B0\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T
M=&]M(&%L:6=N/3-$6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,F5M
M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R
M/D1E8W)E87-EF4],T0R/CQB/BDF(WA!,#L\+V(^/"]F
M;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q
M/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N
M="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I
M9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@
M05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/BDF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^
M/"]T9#X-"CPO='(^#0H\='(@8F=C;VQO6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S
M='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT
M/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT
M9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/C$L,#$R/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\
M=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]T"!P;W-I=&EO;G,@65A6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!
M34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S
M:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T
M;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/C,V-#PO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!
M34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T
M9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S
M='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B@R.3(\
M+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/CQB/BDF(WA!,#L\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N
M/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,
M63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q
M/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N
M="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I
M9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M
M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,F5M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!
M34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/D1E8W)E87-EF4],T0R/CQB/BDF(WA!,#L\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^
M#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS
M1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT
M('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/"]TF4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q('=I
M9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N
M/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$
M)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!S:7IE/3-$,2!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O
M/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/
M3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/CF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,
M63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B0\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!
M34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/C8L.3,U/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@
M=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$
M,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O
M;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$
M,3XF(WA!,#LF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T
M;VT^#0H\:'(@F4],T0S('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D
M92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q
M/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH
M6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!S:7IE/3-$
M,R!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T
M=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE
M9G0@6QE
M/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0S(&YO
MF4],T0S(&YO'1087)T7S(Y83)F.39E7S0P9F-?-&,R85]B,3EE7S4U,C@S
M-V(P,31E,@T*0V]N=&5N="U,;V-A=&EO;CH@9FEL93HO+R]#.B\R.6$R9CDV
M95\T,&9C7S1C,F%?8C$Y95\U-3(X,S=B,#$T93(O5V]R:W-H965T'0O:F%V87-C3X-"B`@("`\=&%B;&4@8VQA#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@
M,'!X)R!A;&EG;CTS1&IUF4],T0R/E1H92!C;VUP;VYE;G1S(&]F#0IU;F5A
M"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S
M:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T
M;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE
M/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CPO='(^#0H\='(^#0H\=&0@=F%L
M:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&-O;'-P86X],T0X/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2
M.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!S:7IE/3-$,2!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^
M#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C
M9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@F4],T0Q/CQB/DIU;F4F(WA!
M,#LS,"P\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF
M;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQS6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQS6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I
M>F4],T0R/CQB/B0\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T
M=&]M(&%L:6=N/3-$F4],T0R
M/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C
M>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]T$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS
M1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0Q/CQS=7`@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R
M/C(L-#DU/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)A
MF4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]TF4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N
M;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\+W1R/@T*/'1R(&)G8V]L;W(]
M,T0C0T-%149&/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1'1O6QE/3-$)U1%
M6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,F5M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL
M93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/E1O=&%L/"]F;VYT
M/CPOF4]
M,T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4]
M,T0R/CQB/B0\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M
M(&%L:6=N/3-$F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P
M.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@
M6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]T
MF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C
M-3DU.34Y)R!S:7IE/3-$,R!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\
M=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F
M9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I
M9VAT('-I>F4],T0S(&YOF4],T0S(&YO#L@1D].5"U325I%.B`V
M6QE/3-$)T)/4D1%4BU#3TQ,
M05!313H@8V]L;&%P6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I
M>F4],T0R/CQI/D]T:&5R(&%S(&]F($IU;F4F(WA!,#LS,"P@,C`Q,B!I;F-L
M=61E3X-"CQF;VYT
M('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"0T*"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI
M9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4]
M,T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\
M9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CPO='(^#0H\='(^
M#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&-O;'-P86X],T0X/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE
M/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!S:7IE/3-$,2!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D
M92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$
M)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@F4],T0Q/CQB
M/DIU;F4F(WA!,#LS,"P\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$
M8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQS6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQS6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-
M"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'
M24XM3$5&5#H@,65M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))
M04PG('-I>F4],T0R/E-E6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/C@L,3@W/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M
M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]T
M6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/C@S-CPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!S:7IE
M/3-$,2!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$
M8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS
M1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0Q
M(&YOF4],T0Q(&YO
M6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL
M93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B0\+V9O;G0^/"]T
M9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S
M='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C
M>$$P.S$W+#$R,#PO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N
M;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S
M:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#LF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT^#0H\:'(@F4],T0S('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$
M;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I
M>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;3X-"CQH3X-
M"CPO:'1M;#X-"@T*+2TM+2TM/5].97AT4&%R=%\R.6$R9CDV95\T,&9C7S1C
M,F%?8C$Y95\U-3(X,S=B,#$T93(-"D-O;G1E;G0M3&]C871I;VXZ(&9I;&4Z
M+R\O0SHO,CEA,F8Y-F5?-#!F8U\T8S)A7V(Q.65?-34R.#,W8C`Q-&4R+U=O
M'0O:'1M
M;#L@8VAA7!E(&-O;G1E;G0],T0G
M=&5X="]H=&UL.R!C:&%R6QE/3-$)T)/4D1%4BU#
M3TQ,05!313H@8V]L;&%PF4],T0Q/CQB/BA);B!M:6QL:6]NF4]
M,T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D
M92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\+W1R/@T*/'1R/@T*/'1D/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@8V]LF4],T0Q/CQB/C(P,3(\+V(^/"]F;VYT
M/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S
M:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T
M;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q/CQB/C(P,3$\+V(^/"]F;VYT
M/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]T6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"`T*;&EA8FEL
M:71I97,\+V9O;G0^/"]P/@T*/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^
M/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4
M+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B0\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V
M86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&
M3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SF4]
M,T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]TF4]
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M9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/C(W-CPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4
M+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P
M.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]TF4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D
M92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\+W1R/@T*/'1R(&)G8V]L;W(],T0C0T-%149&/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1'1O6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M
M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,F5M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,
M63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/E1O=&%L/"]F;VYT/CPOF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL
M93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B0\+V(^/"]F
M;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&%L:6=N/3-$6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#LF
M(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^#0H\:'(@
MF4],T0S('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^
M#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!S:7IE/3-$,R!N;W-H861E
M/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR
M('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@3X-"CPO:'1M;#X-"@T*+2TM
M+2TM/5].97AT4&%R=%\R.6$R9CDV95\T,&9C7S1C,F%?8C$Y95\U-3(X,S=B
M,#$T93(-"D-O;G1E;G0M3&]C871I;VXZ(&9I;&4Z+R\O0SHO,CEA,F8Y-F5?
M-#!F8U\T8S)A7V(Q.65?-34R.#,W8C`Q-&4R+U=O'0O:'1M;#L@8VAA7!E(&-O;G1E;G0],T0G=&5X="]H=&UL.R!C:&%R
M'0^/&1I
M=CX-"CQP('-T>6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#$R"$$P
M.S,P+"`R,#$R(&%R92!A#L@1D].
M5"U325I%.B`Q,G!X)SX-"B8C>$$P.SPO6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CPO
M='(^#0H\='(^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&-O;'-P86X],T0T/@T*
M/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!S:7IE/3-$,2!N;W-H861E
M/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR
M('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]T6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,65M)SX\
M9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/C(P
M,3,\+V9O;G0^/"]P/@T*/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O
M;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/"]TF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I
M>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/"]TF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4
M+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P
M.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]TF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4
M+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P
M.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]TF4],T0Q/B8C
M>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\
M9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS
M1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]TF4]
M,T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4]
M,T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A
M;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/"]TF4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#LF
M(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^#0H\:'(@
MF4],T0S('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^
M#0H\+W1R/@T*/"]T86)L93X-"CPO9&EV/CQS7!E.B!T97AT+VAT;6P[(&-H87)S
M970](G5S+6%S8VEI(@T*#0H\:'1M;#X-"B`@/&AE860^#0H@("`@/$U%5$$@
M:'1T'0O:'1M
M;#L@8VAA7!E/3-$=&5X="]J879A2`H5&%B;&5S*3QB'0^/&1I=CX-"CQP('-T>6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#$R"6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#!P>#L@34%21TE.
M+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X.R!&3TY4+5-)6D4Z(#$R6QE/3-$)T)/4D1%4BU#3TQ,05!313H@8V]L;&%P6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$
M,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O
M;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF
M(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@
MF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!
M,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CPO='(^#0H\='(^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T
M=&]M(&-O;'-P86X],T0Q,CX-"CQHF4],T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S
M:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\+W1R/@T*/'1R/@T*/'1D/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@8V]L
MF4]
M,T0Q/CQB/EEE87(@16YD960@2G5N928C>$$P.S,P+#PO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T
M9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB
M/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B
M;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q
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M86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/C$U-3PO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M
M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,F5M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS
M1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/E)EF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I
M>F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!
M34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B@Q-#(\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^
M#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/CQB/BDF(WA!
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M3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4
M+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S
M:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4]
M,T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-
M"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!S:7IE
M/3-$,2!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$
M8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS
M1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0Q
M(&YOF4],T0Q(&YO
M65A6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4]
M,T0R/C@L,SF4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T
M9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/C@L-C8X/"]F;VYT/CPO
M=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/B8C>$$P
M.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]TF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!S:7IE/3-$,R!N;W-H
M861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*
M/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/
M3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0S(&YOF4],T0S(&YOF4],T0S('=I9'1H/3-$
M,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\+W1R/@T*/"]T86)L93X-
M"CPO9&EV/CQS3X-"CQF
M;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE
M/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#!P>#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X.R!&3TY4
M+5-)6D4Z(#$R6QE/3-$)T)/
M4D1%4BU#3TQ,05!313H@8V]L;&%P6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^
M/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q/CQB/D%M;W5N=#PO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQS6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q/CQB/E-H87)EF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQS6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"F4],T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO
M=&0^#0H\+W1R/@T*/'1R/@T*/'1D/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@8V]LF4],T0Q/CQB/EEE87(@16YD960@2G5N928C>$$P.S,P
M+#PO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@
MF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$
M,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O
M;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF
M(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@
MF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!
M,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O
M;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,
M63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B0\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!
M34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/C0L,#`P/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@
M=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$
M,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O
M;G0@F4]
M,T0R/C4X/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)A
MF4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-
M"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT
M9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-
M"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG
M('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S
M='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT
M/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT
M9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/C,L-3@S/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\
M=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]TF4],T0Q
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M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R
M/CQB/B8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T
M;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@
M05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/C$L,#`P/"]B/CPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4]
M,T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A
M;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&
M3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T
M>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C
M>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\
M9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/C8W/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$
M8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/C(L,#`P
M/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4]
M,T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]T6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/C8V/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M
M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^
M/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/C$L-C,Q/"]F;VYT
M/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/B8C
M>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\
M9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/C$S,#PO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$
M)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!S:7IE/3-$,2!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O
M/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/
M3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!A
M;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S
M:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4]
M,T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-
M"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!S:7IE
M/3-$,2!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$
M8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS
M1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0Q
M(&YOF4],T0Q(&YO
MF4],T0Q
M('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\+W1R/@T*
M/'1R(&)G8V]L;W(],T0C0T-%149&/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1'1O6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,F5M
M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R
M/E1O=&%L/"]F;VYT/CPOF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@
M05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT
M9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS
M1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/C$T,CPO8CX\+V9O
M;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB
M/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B
M;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q
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M='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG
M('-I>F4],T0R/B0\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@
M86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))
M04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.S$P+#@S-CPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#LF(WA!,#L\+V9O
M;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^#0H\:'(@F4],T0S
M('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L
M:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE
M/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!S:7IE/3-$,R!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D
M92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$
M)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y
M)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0S(&YOF4],T0S(&YOF4],T0S('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$
M;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I
M>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4]
M,T0S(&YOF4],T0S
M(&YO'0^/&1I=CX-"CQP('-T
M>6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#$R"65A"F4],T0Q/CQB/D1E8VQAF4],T0Q
M/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;2!C;VQSF4]
M,T0Q/CQB/D1I=FED96YD/"]B/CPO9F]N=#X\+W`^#0H\"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$
M,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]L
MF4],T0Q/CQB/E)E8V]R9"!$871E/"]B/CPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF
M(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@
M$$P.T%M
M;W5N=#PO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O
M;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQS6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"$$P.T1A=&4\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N
M/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/"]T6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!S:7IE/3-$,2!N;W-H
M861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*
M/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@F4],T0Q
M/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N
M="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#LF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI
M9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]LF4]
M,T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\
M9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q
M/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N
M="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B
M;W1T;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q/CQB/BA);B!M:6QL:6]N
MF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V
M86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]T6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-
M05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,65M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@
M05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/E-E6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.S`N,C`\+V(^/"]F;VYT
M/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/CQB
M/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B
M;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q
M/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N
M="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B0\
M+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&%L:6=N/3-$
M6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"$$P.S@L)B-X03`[
M,C`Q,3PO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W
M6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/C`N,C`\+V(^
M/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4]
M,T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI
M9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^
M/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R
M/CQB/C$L-C@S/"]B/CPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL
M93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.SPO
M8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R
M:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4]
M,T0R/CQB/DUAF4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO
M8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CPO='(^#0H\='(@8F=C;VQO6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG
M('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B0\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$
M8F]T=&]M(&%L:6=N/3-$F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I
M>F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!
M34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/DUA>2`Q-RP@,C`Q,CPO8CX\+V9O
M;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB
M/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B
M;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT
M9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/C$L-CF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4
M+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^
M/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N
M="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/E-E
M$$P.S$S+"8C>$$P.S(P,3(\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\
M=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C
M>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CPO='(^#0H\+W1A8FQE/@T*/&AR('-T
M>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z
M(#$R"6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#$R"65A"F4],T0Q/CQB/D1E8VQA
MF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q/CQB/D1I=FED96YD/"]B/CPO9F]N=#X\
M+W`^#0H\"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V
M86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q/CQB/E)E
M8V]R9"!$871E/"]B/CPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI
M9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@$$P.T%M;W5N=#PO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V
M86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQS6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"$$P.T1A=&4\+V(^/"]F;VYT
M/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]T6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P
M,#`P)R!S:7IE/3-$,2!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@
M=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F
M)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#LF(WA!,#L\+V9O
M;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^
M/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T
M9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]LF4]
M,T0Q/CQB/BA);B!M:6QL:6]NF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/"]T6QE/3-$)U1%
M6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,65M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL
M93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/E-EF4],T0R/B8C>$$P
M.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N
M="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B
M;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/DYO=F5M8F5R)B-X03`[,3@L)B-X03`[,C`Q,#PO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^
M/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4]
M,T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\
M9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS
M1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"$$P.S(P,3`\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-
M"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&
M5#H@,65M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I
M>F4],T0R/D1E8V5M8F5R(#$U+"`R,#$P/"]F;VYT/CPOF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL
M93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B0\+V9O;G0^/"]T
M9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S
M='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/C`N,38\+V9O
M;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG
M('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4]
M,T0R/B0\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX]
M,T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I
M>F4],T0R/C$L,S0Y/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M
M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^
M/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/DUAF4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]TF4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$
M,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O
M;G0@F4]
M,T0R/DUA>2`Q.2P@,C`Q,3PO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I
M>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]TF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4
M+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B0\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V
M86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&
M3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/C`N,38\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-
M"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R
M/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG
M;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF
M(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@
M6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"$$P
M.S(P,3$\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"7!E.B!T97AT+VAT;6P[(&-H87)S970](G5S+6%S8VEI
M(@T*#0H\:'1M;#X-"B`@/&AE860^#0H@("`@/$U%5$$@:'1T'0O:'1M;#L@8VAA7!E/3-$=&5X="]J879A'0^/&1I=CX-"CQP('-T>6QE
M/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#$R""F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O
M;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]T
M6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!S:7IE/3-$,2!N;W-H861E
M/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR
M('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q
M/CQB/C(P,3(\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M
M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-
M"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q
M/CQB/C(P,3$\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M
M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-
M"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q
M/CQB/C(P,3`\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M
M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]TF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T
M9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-
M"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CPO
M='(^#0H\='(^#0H\=&0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!C;VQS6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"`T*969F96-T6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!
M34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B0\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI
M9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4
M+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B@V,S(\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT
M9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF
M(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@
M6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$
M)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,65M)SX\9F]N="!S
M='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/E)E8VQA6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T
M9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R
M/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI
M9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/B@S,C(\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI
M9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/"]TF4],T0Q(&YO
MF4],T0Q
M('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L
M:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE
M/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!S:7IE/3-$,2!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D
M92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$
M)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4]
M,T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4]
M,T0R/CQB/B0\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M
M(&%L:6=N/3-$F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO
M8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@
M05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B0\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B
M;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,
M63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/C(W/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N
M/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/"]TF4],T0Q
M(&YOF4]
M,T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@
M=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!S:7IE/3-$,2!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S
M:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE
M/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQS6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&
M5#H@,65M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I
M>F4],T0R/E5N6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"$$P.SPO8CX\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS
M1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B0\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-
M"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL
M93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/C0X.#PO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O
M;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3""!E9F9E
M8W1S(&]F(#QB/B0H,3$W*3PO8CXL#0HD*#$U.2DL(&%N9"`D*#$R,"D\+V9O
M;G0^/"]P/@T*/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"$$P
M.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@
M6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/BDF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V
M86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/BDF(WA!
M,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CPO='(^#0H\='(^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T
M=&]M(&-O;'-P86X],T0T/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P
M)R!S:7IE/3-$,2!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L
M:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A
M;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I
M>F4],T0Q(&YOF4]
M,T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\
M+W1R/@T*/'1R(&)G8V]L;W(],T0C0T-%149&/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1'1O
M6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&
M5#H@,F5M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I
M>F4],T0R/DYE="!U;G)E86QI>F5D(&=A:6YS("AL;W-S97,I(&]N#0II;G9E
MF4],T0R/C$L,#4T/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@
M=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$
M,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O
M;G0@F4]
M,T0R/C(V-3PO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R
M87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!S:7IE/3-$,2!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S
M:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE
M/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P
M,#`P)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E
M/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\+W1R/@T*/'1R(&)G8V]L;W(],T0C0T-%
M149&/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1'1O6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$
M14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,65M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&
M3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/E1R86YS;&%T:6]N(&%D:G5S
M=&UE;G1S(&%N9"!O=&AE6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T
M9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))
M04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^
M#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!S:7IE/3-$,2!N;W-H861E
M/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR
M('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2
M.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P
M.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N
M="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B0\
M+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&%L:6=N/3-$
M6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I
M>F4],T0R/B0\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI
M9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG
M('-I>F4],T0R/C@V/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M
M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]T
MF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C
M-3DU.34Y)R!S:7IE/3-$,R!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\
M=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F
M9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I
M9VAT('-I>F4],T0S(&YOF4],T0S(&YOF4],T0S('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO
M=&0^#0H\+W1R/@T*/"]T86)L93X-"CPO9&EV/CQS3X-"CQF;VYT
M('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3""F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O
M;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]T
M6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!S:7IE/3-$,2!N;W-H861E
M/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR
M('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"$$P.S,P
M+#PO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@
M6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q
M/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R
M/CQB/B0\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&%L
M:6=N/3-$6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/BDF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T
M;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/"]T6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$
M14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,65M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&
M3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/E1R86YS;&%T:6]N(&%D:G5S
M=&UE;G1S(&%N9`T*;W1H97(\+V9O;G0^/"]P/@T*/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI
M9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V
M86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4]
M,T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A
M;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"F4],T0Q
M('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L
M:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE
M/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!S:7IE/3-$,2!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D
M92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$
M)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P
M)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q(&YO6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R
M/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.S$L-#(R/"]B/CPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R
M/B0\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R
M:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4]
M,T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.S$L.#8S/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N
M/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!
M,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S
M:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#LF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT^#0H\:'(@F4],T0S('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$
M;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I
M>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4]
M,T0S(&YOF4],T0S
M(&YO'1087)T7S(Y83)F.39E7S0P9F-?-&,R85]B,3EE
M7S4U,C@S-V(P,31E,@T*0V]N=&5N="U,;V-A=&EO;CH@9FEL93HO+R]#.B\R
M.6$R9CDV95\T,&9C7S1C,F%?8C$Y95\U-3(X,S=B,#$T93(O5V]R:W-H965T
M'0O:F%V87-C
M3X-"B`@("`\=&%B;&4@
M8VQA"!"96YE9FET'0^/&1I=CX-"CQP('-T>6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#$R""!B96YE9FET6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#!P>#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X.R!&
M3TY4+5-)6D4Z(#$R6QE/3-$
M)T)/4D1%4BU#3TQ,05!313H@8V]L;&%P6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^
M/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T
M9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-
M"CPO='(^#0H\='(^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&-O;'-P86X],T0Q
M,CX-"CQHF4],T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\
M+W1R/@T*/'1R/@T*/'1D/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@8V]LF4],T0Q/CQB/EEE87(@16YD
M960@2G5N928C>$$P.S,P+#PO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"'!E;G-E/"]F;VYT
M/CPOF4]
M,T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4]
M,T0R/CQB/B0\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M
M(&%L:6=N/3-$6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,65M)SX\
M9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/DEN
M8V]M92!T87@@8F5N969I=',@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,
M63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B0\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@
M=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&%L:6=N/3-$F4],T0R/CQB
M/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B
M;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!
M,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"'0^/&1I=CX-"CQP('-T>6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#$X"2!F;W(@86QL('-T;V-K
M#0IP;&%N#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X)R!A;&EG;CTS1&IUF4],T0R
M/E1H92!F86ER('9A;'5E(&]F(&5A8V@-"F%W87)D('=A6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z
M(#!P>#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X.R!&3TY4+5-)6D4Z(#$R6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!A;&EG
M;CTS1&QE9G0@F4],T0Q/CQB/EEE87(@16YD960@2G5N
M928C>$$P.S,P+#PO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T
M;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"$$P.R0F(WA!,#LF(WA!
M,#LP+C(P/"]B/CPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N
M;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R
M87`^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"$$P.RTF
M(WA!,#LD)B-X03`[)B-X03`[,"XQ-CPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/B0\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W
MF4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]T6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/C`N-R4F
M(WA!,#LM)B-X03`[,2XW)3PO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"$$P
M.RTF(WA!,#LR+C0E/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M
M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^
M/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"$$P.RTF
M(WA!,#LR+CDE/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO
M=W)AF4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]T"#L@1D].5"U325I%.B`Q,G!X)SX-"B8C>$$P.SPOF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQS6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"F4],T0Q/CQB/E=E:6=H=&5D/"]B/CPO9F]N=#X\+W`^#0H\"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/CQB/D=R86YT+41A=&4\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#!P>#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,7!X)R!A
M;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/@T*/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S
M:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\+W1R/@T*/'1R/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI
M9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$
M,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]L
MF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]T6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$
M,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]L
MF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]T6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"65AF4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO
M8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.S(S+C4Y/"]B/CPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@
M6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-
M05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,F5M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@
M05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/D=R86YT960\+V9O;G0^/"]P/@T*/"]T9#X-"CQT
M9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T
M9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB
M/C(T+CDV/"]B/CPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N
M;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM
M3$5&5#H@,F5M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG
M('-I>F4],T0R/E9EF4],T0R/CQB/BDF(WA!,#L\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L
M:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!
M34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B0\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\
M=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&%L:6=N/3-$6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O
M;G0^/"]T9#X-"CPO='(^#0H\='(^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&-O
M;'-P86X],T0T/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!S:7IE
M/3-$,2!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$
M8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS
M1&QE9G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI
M9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM
M3$5&5#H@,65M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG
M('-I>F4],T0R/DYO;G9E6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I
M>F4],T0R/CQB/B0\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T
M=&]M(&%L:6=N/3-$6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!S:7IE/3-$,R!N;W-H
M861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*
M/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@F4],T0Q/B8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S
M:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T
M;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE
M/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@
M8V]LF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]T6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"65A6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO
M8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CPO='(^#0H\='(^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$=&]P
M/@T*/'`@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4]
M,T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CPO='(^#0H\
M='(@8F=C;VQO6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@
M05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT
M9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS
M1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B@Q-3PO8CX\+V9O
M;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T
M;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"F4],T0R/CQB/C(T+C8Y/"]B/CPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@
M6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-
M05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,F5M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@
M05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/D9O6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-
M"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/C(S
M+C@R/"]B/CPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R
M87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@F4]
M,T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@
M=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!
M,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]TF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P
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M1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q
M/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N
M="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B0\
M+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&%L:6=N/3-$
M6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE
M/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!S:7IE/3-$,R!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D
M92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$
M)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!
M,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#$R"F5D#0IC;VUP96YS871I;VX@8V]S=',@6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)
M3BU43U`Z(#$R""6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"&-EF4],T0Q/CQB/C(P,3$\
M+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I
M>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI
M9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q/CQB/C(P,3`\
M+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I
M>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]TF4],T0Q(&YO6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI
M9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]LF4]
M,T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]T6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@
M05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]T6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&
M3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B0\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT
M9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS
M1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/C(S+C0S/"]F;VYT/CPO
M=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/B8C>$$P
M.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]T6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT
M9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CPO='(^
M#0H\='(^#0H\=&0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!C;VQS6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$
M14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,65M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&
M3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/D%W87)DF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I
M>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS
M1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT
M('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-
M05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,65M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@
M05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/E=E:6=H=&5D(&%V97)A9V4@9W)A;G0M9&%T92!F
M86ER#0IV86QU93PO9F]N=#X\+W`^#0H\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#LF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-
M"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X)R!A;&EG;CTS
M1&IUF4],T0R/D9O;&QO=VEN9R!A"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT
M9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V
M86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]T6QE/3-$)T-/
M3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!S:7IE/3-$,2!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO
M=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2
M.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!
M,#LF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]L
MF4],T0Q/CQB/C(P,3(\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^
M#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$
M,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]L
MF4],T0Q/CQB/C(P,3$\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^
M#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$
M,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]L
MF4],T0Q/CQB/C(P,3`\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^
M#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]T6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P
M.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@
M6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C
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M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]T
M6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/C,X.#PO8CX\+V9O
M;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S
M='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B0\+V9O;G0^
M/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N
M="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/C(R-SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R
M87`^/&9O;G0@3X-"CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#!P>#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X.R!&
M3TY4+5-)6D4Z(#$R6QE/3-$
M)T)/4D1%4BU#3TQ,05!313H@8V]L;&%PF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQS6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3""6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#!P>#L@34%21TE.
M+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/@T*/&9O;G0@"6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q/CQB/E=E:6=H=&5D/"]B/CPO
M9F]N=#X\+W`^#0H\"6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/CQB/E)E;6%I;FEN9SPO
M8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]P/@T*/'`@F4],T0Q/CQB/D-O;G1R86-T
M=6%L/"]B/CPO9F]N=#X\+W`^#0H\"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q/CQB/D%G9W)E9V%T93PO8CX\+V9O;G0^
M/"]P/@T*/'`@F4],T0Q/CQB/DEN=')I;G-I8SPO8CX\+V9O
M;G0^/"]P/@T*/'`@F4],T0Q/CQB/E9A;'5E/"]B/CPO9F]N
M=#X\+W`^#0H\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE
M/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CPO='(^#0H\='(^#0H\=&0@=F%L
M:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&-O;'-P86X],T0Q-CX-"CQHF4],T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H
M861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\+W1R/@T*/'1R/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-
M"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q
M/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N
M="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B
M;W1T;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q/B8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S
M:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T
M;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q/CQB/BA996%RF4],T0Q
M/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N
M="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B
M;W1T;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q/CQB/BA);B8C>$$P.VUI
M;&QI;VYS*3PO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^
M/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"28C>$$P.S$L
M(#(P,3$\+V9O;G0^/"]P/@T*/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^
M/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB
M/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B
M;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/C(S+C(Q/"]B/CPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O
M;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T
M9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4]
M,T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\
M9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF
M(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CPO='(^#0H\='(^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$
M=&]P/@T*/'`@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4
M+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B0\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^
M#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&%L:6=N/3-$F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT
M9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S
M:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CPO='(^#0H\='(@8F=C;VQO
M6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG
M('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI
M9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4
M+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B@V-#PO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T
M9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O
M;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.S(R+C(P/"]B/CPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^
M/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^
M/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI
M9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$
M,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CPO='(^#0H\='(^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N
M/3-$=&]P/@T*/'`@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V
M86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE
M/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^
M/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O
M;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]TF4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$
M,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O
M;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^
M/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI
M9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]TF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))
M04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V
M86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&
M3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/C(R/"]B/CPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O
M;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))
M04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B0\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N
M/3-$8F]T=&]M(&%L:6=N/3-$6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))
M04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B0\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N
M/3-$8F]T=&]M(&%L:6=N/3-$F4]
M,T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CPO='(^#0H\
M='(^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$=&]P/@T*/'`@6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V
M86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/C(P+CF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!
M34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T
M9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S
M='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/C`N.#,\
M+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V
M86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/C$W.#PO8CX\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"&5R8VES92!!8W1I=FET
M>3PO=&0^#0H@("`@("`@(#QT9"!C;&%S'0^/&1I=CX-"CQP('-T
M>6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#$R"&5R8VES92!A8W1I=FET
M>0T*;V-C=7)R960Z/"]F;VYT/CPO6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU4
M3U`Z(#!P>#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X.R!&3TY4+5-)6D4Z(#$R6QE/3-$)T)/4D1%4BU#3TQ,05!3
M13H@8V]L;&%P6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI
M9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4]
M,T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\
M9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q
M/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N
M="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CPO='(^#0H\='(^#0H\
M=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&-O;'-P86X],T0Q,CX-"CQHF4],T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$
M,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\+W1R/@T*/'1R/@T*/'1D
M/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@8V]L6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S
M='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B0\+V9O;G0^
M/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N
M="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/C(R,CPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R
M87`^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/"]T&5R8VES97,\+V9O;G0^/"]P
M/@T*/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.S$L-#$P/"]B/CPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@
MF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG
M('-I>F4],T0R/B0\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@
M86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))
M04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.S$L.34T/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\
M=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE
M/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^
M/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!
M34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B0\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI
M9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4
M+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CF4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$
M,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O
M;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"'0^/&1I=CX-"CQP('-T>6QE/3-$)TU!
M4D=)3BU43U`Z(#$R"#L@1D].5"U325I%.B`Q,G!X)SX-"B8C>$$P.SPOF4],T0Q/CQB/BA3:&%R97,@:6X@;6EL;&EO;G,I
M/"]B/CPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S
M:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#LF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q
M/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N
M="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B
M;W1T;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q/B8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S
M:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T
M;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]T6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P
M)R!S:7IE/3-$,2!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L
M:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A
M;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/CQB/C(P,3(\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\
M=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF
M(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q/CQB/C(P,3$\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\
M=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF
M(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q/CQB/C(P,3`\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\
M=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]TF4],T0Q
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M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R
M/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG
M;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4
M+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM
M3$5&5#H@,65M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG
M('-I>F4],T0R/D%V97)A9V4@F4],T0Q/B8C
M>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\
M9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB
M/B0\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&%L:6=N
M/3-$6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"7!E.B!T97AT+VAT;6P[(&-H87)S
M970](G5S+6%S8VEI(@T*#0H\:'1M;#X-"B`@/&AE860^#0H@("`@/$U%5$$@
M:'1T'0O:'1M
M;#L@8VAA7!E/3-$=&5X="]J879A'0^/&1I=CX-"CQP
M('-T>6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#!P>#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X
M)R!A;&EG;CTS1&IUF4],T0R/E-E9VUE;G0@"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O
M;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^
M/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]T6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!S:7IE/3-$,2!N;W-H861E/3-$
M;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T
M>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/CQB
M/C(P,3(\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF
M;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT
M9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q/CQB
M/C(P,3$\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF
M;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT
M9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q/CQB
M/C(P,3`\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF
M;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]TF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF
M(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!
M,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/"]T6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,
M63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B0\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!
M34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/C$X+#6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]TF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I
M>F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!
M34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/C$X+#8Y-CPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T
M9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/C$V+#8Y,3PO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,65M
M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R
M/D]N;&EN92!397)V:6-E6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R
M/C(L-C@P/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)A
MF4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-
M"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/C(L,S0U/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^
M#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]TF4],T0Q
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M9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/C(R+#,Q-#PO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE
M/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,65M)SX\9F]N
M="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/D5N=&5R
M=&%I;FUE;G0@86YD($1E=FEC97,-"D1I=FES:6]N/"]F;VYT/CPOF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P
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M;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@F4]
M,T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\
M9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS
M1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4
M+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'
M24XM3$5&5#H@,65M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))
M04PG('-I>F4],T0R/E5N86QL;V-A=&5D(&%N9"!O=&AEF4]
M,T0R/C4W-3PO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R
M87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S
M:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4]
M,T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-
M"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!S:7IE
M/3-$,2!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$
M8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS
M1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0Q
M(&YOF4],T0Q(&YO
M6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/B8C
M>$$P.R8C>$$P.S6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO
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M87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE
M/3-$,3XF(WA!,#LF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B
M;W1T;VT^#0H\:'(@F4],T0S('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S
M:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4]
M,T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-
M"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!S:7IE
M/3-$,R!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$
M8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS
M1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0S
M(&YOF4],T0S(&YO
M#L@1D].5"U325I%.B`Q,G!X)SX-"B8C>$$P
M.SPOF4],T0Q/CQB/BA);B!M
M:6QL:6]NF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q
M/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;2!C;VQS6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;2!C;VQS6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;2!C;VQS6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/CQB/D]P97)A=&EN9R!);F-O;64@*$QOF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF
M(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!
M,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/"]T6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,
M63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B0\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!
M34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/C$Q+#DW,3PO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]TF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I
M>F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!
M34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/CF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG
M('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S
M='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT
M/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,65M)SX\
M9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/D]N
M;&EN92!397)V:6-EF4],T0R/CQB/BDF(WA!,#L\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^
M#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS
M1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT
M('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4]
M,T0R/BDF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^
M/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/"]TF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO
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M;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/C$T
M+#0U,SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`]
M,T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4
M.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,65M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4
M+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/D5N=&5R=&%I;FUE;G0@86YD($1E
M=FEC97,-"D1I=FES:6]N/"]F;VYT/CPOF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4
M+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^
M/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N
M="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/C,V
M-3PO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/C$L,CDT/"]F;VYT
M/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/B8C
M>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\
M9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/C4R-3PO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/BDF(WA!,#L\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L
M:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!
M34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/BDF(WA!
M,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]TF4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$
M,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T
M=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2
M.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!S:7IE/3-$,2!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^
M#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C
M9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I
M>F4],T0R/CQB/B0\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T
M=&]M(&%L:6=N/3-$F4],T0R
M/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C
M>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\
M9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T-/
M3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0S(&YOF4],T0S(&YOF4],T0S('=I9'1H/3-$
M,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T
M=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2
M.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!S:7IE/3-$,R!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^
M#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C
M9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@'0^/&1I=CX-"CQP('-T>6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU4
M3U`Z(#$R"#L@1D].5"U325I%.B`Q,G!X)SX-"B8C>$$P
M.SPOF4],T0Q/CQB/BA);B!M
M:6QL:6]NF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q
M/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;2!C;VQS6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;2!C;VQS6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;2!C;VQS6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$
M14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,65M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&
M3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/D-O6QE/3-$)U!/4TE424]..B!R
M96QA=&EV93L@0D]45$]-.B`P+CAE>#L@5D525$E#04PM04Q)1TXZ(&)A6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/B@U+#`Y,#PO
M8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/BDF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^
M/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4]
M,T0R/BDF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CPO='(^#0H\='(^#0H\=&0@=F%L
M:6=N/3-$=&]P/@T*/'`@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"F4],T0R/C,X,3PO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)U1%
M6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,65M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL
M93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/D]T:&5R/"]F;VYT
M/CPOF4]
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M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4]
M,T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A
M;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"F4],T0R/BDF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V
M86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$
M;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I
M>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4]
M,T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q
M(&YO6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O
M;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]TF4]
M,T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y
M)R!S:7IE/3-$,R!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L
M:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A
M;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I
M>F4],T0S(&YOF4]
M,T0S(&YOF4],T0S('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\
M+W1R/@T*/"]T86)L93X-"CQP('-T>6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#!P>#L@
M34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X.R!&3TY4+5-)6D4Z(#9P>"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"2!-86IO3X-"CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"0T*=&AE(&UA:F]R(&=E;V=R87!H:6,@87)E87,@:6X@=VAI8V@@;W5R
M(&-U#L@1D].5"U325I%.B`Q,G!X)SX-"B8C>$$P.SPOF4],T0Q/CQB/BA);B!M:6QL:6]NF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQS6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQS6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQS6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M
M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,65M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,
M63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/E5N:71E9`T*4W1A=&5S)B-X03`[/"]F;VYT
M/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4]
M,T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4]
M,T0R/CQB/B0\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M
M(&%L:6=N/3-$F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P
M.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@
M6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^
M/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM
M3$5&5#H@,65M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG
M('-I>F4],T0R/D]T:&5R(&-O=6YTF4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O
M;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!
M34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P
M.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]TF4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D
M92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q
M/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH
M6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!S:7IE/3-$
M,2!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T
M=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE
M9G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P
M.R8C>$$P.S6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&
M3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B0\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT
M9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS
M1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.S8R
M+#0X-#PO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`]
M,T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$
M,3XF(WA!,#LF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T
M;VT^#0H\:'(@F4],T0S('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D
M92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q
M/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH
M6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!S:7IE/3-$
M,R!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T
M=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE
M9G0@6QE
M/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0S(&YO
MF4],T0S(&YO#L@1D].5"U325I%.B`V6QE/3-$)T)/4D1%4BU#3TQ,05!313H@8V]L;&%P6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"3X\9F]N="!S
M='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQI/DEN8VQU
M9&5S(&)I;&QI;F=S('1O($]%37,@86YD(&-EF%T:6]N2!3:6=N:69I8V%N="!0'0^/&1I=CX-"CQP('-T>6QE/3-$)TU!4D=)3BU43U`Z(#$R
M"2!S
M:6=N:69I8V%N="!P#L@1D].5"U325I%.B`Q,G!X
M)SX-"B8C>$$P.SPOF4],T0Q
M/CQB/BA);B!M:6QL:6]NF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQS6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQS6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQS6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$
M)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,65M)SX\9F]N="!S
M='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/DUI8W)OF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4
M+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B0\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^
M#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&%L:6=N/3-$F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V
M86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S
M:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T
M;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M
M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,65M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS
M1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/E=I;F1O=W,@4$,@;W!E
M7-T96US/"]F;VYT/CPOF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
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M6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"F4],T0R/C$W+#@R-3PO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R
M87`^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M
M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,65M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,
M63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/E-E6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))
M04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$
M,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O
M;G0@F4]
M,T0R/C$R+#`P-SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N
M;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3""`S-C`@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB
M/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B
M;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/C,L,SF4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF
M(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@
MF4],T0R
M/C,L,#,V/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)A
MF4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]T6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/C(L.3$S/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$
M8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/C(L-3(X
M/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4]
M,T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]T6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/C,L-S0Y/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L
M:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF
M(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@
MF4],T0R
M/C,L-#F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]TF4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N
M;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M
M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C
M,#`P,#`P)R!S:7IE/3-$,2!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\
M=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F
M9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.S6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4]
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M1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#LF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT
M9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^#0H\:'(@F4],T0S('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N
M;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M
M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C
M-3DU.34Y)R!S:7IE/3-$,R!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\
M=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F
M9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I
M9VAT('-I>F4],T0S(&YOF4],T0S(&YO&-L=61I;F2!#;VUP86YY/"]T9#X-"B`@("`@("`@/'1D(&-L
M87-S/3-$=&5X=#X\9&EV/@T*/'`@#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X)R!A;&EG;CTS1&IUF4],T0R/DQO;F2P@=V5R92!A"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF
M(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!
M,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/"]T6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!S:7IE/3-$,2!N
M;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M
M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@
M6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"$$P.S,P+#PO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^
M/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,
M63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B0\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!
M34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/C$X+#0Y.#PO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]TF4],T0Q
M/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R
M/CQB/B8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T
M;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@
M05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/C8L.3F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4]
M,T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A
M;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P
M.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]T6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/B8C
M>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T
M;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!S:7IE/3-$,2!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S
M:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE
M/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P
M,#`P)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E
M/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\+W1R/@T*/'1R(&)G8V]L;W(],T0C0T-%
M149&/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1'1O6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$
M14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,F5M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&
M3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/E1O=&%L/"]F;VYT/CPOF4],T0Q/B8C
M>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\
M9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB
M/B0\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&%L:6=N
M/3-$F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P
M.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^
M/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!
M3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE
M/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^
M/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU
M.34Y)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0S(&YOF4],T0S(&YOF4],T0S('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E
M/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT
M('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C-3DU.34Y
M)R!S:7IE/3-$,R!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L
M:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A
M;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@3X-"CPO:'1M;#X-"@T*+2TM+2TM/5].97AT4&%R=%\R.6$R9CDV95\T,&9C
M7S1C,F%?8C$Y95\U-3(X,S=B,#$T93(-"D-O;G1E;G0M3&]C871I;VXZ(&9I
M;&4Z+R\O0SHO,CEA,F8Y-F5?-#!F8U\T8S)A7V(Q.65?-34R.#,W8C`Q-&4R
M+U=O'0O
M:'1M;#L@8VAA7!E(&-O;G1E;G0]
M,T0G=&5X="]H=&UL.R!C:&%R2!);F9O6QE/3-$)T)/4D1%4BU#3TQ,05!313H@8V]L;&%PF4],T0Q/CQB/BA);B!M:6QL:6]NF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-
M"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT
M9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V
M86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI
M9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4]
M,T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\
M9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CPO='(^#0H\='(^
M#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&-O;'-P86X],T0R,#X-"CQHF4],T0Q('=I9'1H
M/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\+W1R/@T*/'1R/@T*
M/'1D/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@8V]LF4],T0Q/CQB/E-E$$P
M.S,P/"]B/CPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N
M="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B
M;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@$$P.S,Q/"]B/CPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT
M9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@$$P.S,Q/"]B/CPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^
M/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE
M/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@
M8V]LF4],T0Q/CQB/E1O=&%L/"]B/CPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!
M,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CPO='(^#0H\='(^#0H\=&0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!C
M;VQSF4],T0Q/CQB/D9IF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!C;VQSF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.S$W+#,W,CPO8CX\+V9O
M;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.R8C
M>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O
M;G0@F4],T0R/CQB/B0\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\
M=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)A6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R
M/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.S$X+#`U.3PO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V
M86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$
M)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO
M8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CPO='(^#0H\='(^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$=&]P
M/@T*/'`@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
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M;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^
M/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q
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M9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P
M.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CPO='(^#0H\='(@8F=C;VQO6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\
M=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&%L:6=N/3-$6QE/3-$)U!/4TE424]..B!R96QA=&EV93L@
M0D]45$]-.B`P+CAE>#L@5D525$E#04PM04Q)1TXZ(&)AF4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+V(^
M/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&%L:6=N/3-$F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.R`\9F]N="!S='EL
M93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0Q/CQS=7`@F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\+W1R/@T*/'1R/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1'1O6QE/3-$)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM
M3$5&5#H@,65M)SX\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG
M('-I>F4],T0R/D)AF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I
M>F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!
M34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/C`N-C@\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^
M#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P
M.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^
M/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A
M;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))
M04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V
M86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&
M3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B@P+C`V/"]B/CPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^
M/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$
M)U1%6%0M24Y$14Y4.B`M,65M.R!-05)'24XM3$5&5#H@,65M)SX\9F]N="!S
M='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/D1I;'5T960@
M96%R;FEN9W,@*&QO6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q
M/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N
M="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/B8C
M>$$P.SPO8CX\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI
M9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG
M('-I>F4],T0R/CQB/C`N-C`\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N
M/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/CQB/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO8CX\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/CQB/BDF(WA!,#L@
M/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)U!/4TE424]..B!R96QA=&EV93L@0D]45$]-.B`P+CAE
M>#L@5D525$E#04PM04Q)1TXZ(&)AF4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+V(^/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^
M#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&%L:6=N/3-$6QE/3-$)U!/4TE424]..B!R
M96QA=&EV93L@0D]45$]-.B`P+CAE>#L@5D525$E#04PM04Q)1TXZ(&)AF4],T0Q
M(&YOF4]
M,T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@
M=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/CQF;VYT('-I>F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X-"CQH6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!S:7IE/3-$,2!N;W-H861E/3-$;F]S
M:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M/@T*/&AR('-T>6QE
M/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C9F9F9F9F)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P
M,#`P)R!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT('-I>F4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q(&YOF4],T0Q('=I9'1H/3-$,"!N;W-H861E
M/3-$;F]S:&%D92`O/CPO=&0^#0H\+W1R/@T*/'1R/@T*/'1D/CPO=&0^#0H\
M=&0@8V]LF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!
M,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O
M;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^
M/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@8V]LF4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]T6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R
M/B0\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R
M:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4]
M,T0R/C$Y+#DU,SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N
M;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S
M:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T
M;VT^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4
M+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B0\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V
M86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@86QI9VX],T1R:6=H=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&
M3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/C8Y+#DT,SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@
M6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO
M9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS
M1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT
M('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4]
M,T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V
M86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/C$U+#$R,#PO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D
M('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\
M+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4
M+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*
M/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C
M>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\
M9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/C4T+#,V-CPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!
M4DE!3"F4],T0R/C4L
M-#$P/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT
M9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/C8L-C,T/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\
M=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE
M/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^
M/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/C4L,C,R/"]F;VYT/CPO=&0^#0H\=&0@=F%L:6=N/3-$8F]T=&]M
M(&YO=W)AF4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\9F]N="!S='EL
M93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0Q/CQS=7`@F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF
M(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@
MF4],T0R
M/C4L.#F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&
M3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0Q/CQS=7`@F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D
M/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\
M+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/C(S+#$U
M,#PO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!N;W=R87`],T1N
M;W=R87`^/&9O;G0@6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG
M;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG
M('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O
M='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT
M9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/C`N-C(\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT
M9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE
M/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4]
M,T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\
M9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C
M>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS
M1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C>$$P
M.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/"]TF4],T0R/C`N-C(\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-
M"CQT9"!V86QI9VX],T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O
M;3X\9F]N="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R
M/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG
M;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/
M3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0R/B8C
M>$$P.R8C>$$P.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\
M9F]N="!S:7IE/3-$,3XF(WA!,#L\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT^/&9O;G0@F4],T0R/C`N-CD\+V9O;G0^/"]T9#X-"CQT9"!V86QI9VX]
M,T1B;W1T;VT@;F]W6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M
M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"F4],T0Q/B8C>$$P
M.SPO9F]N=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;3X\9F]N="!S='EL
M93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/B8C>$$P.SPO9F]N
M=#X\+W1D/@T*/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS1&)O='1O;2!A;&EG;CTS1')I9VAT/CQF
M;VYT('-T>6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T-/3$]2.B`C,#`P,#`P)R!A;&EG;CTS1&QE9G0@
M6QE/3-$)TU!
M4D=)3BU43U`Z(#!P>#L@34%21TE.+4)/5%1/33H@,'!X.R!&3TY4+5-)6D4Z
M(#9P>"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9.B!!4DE!3"6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-
M24Q9.B!!4DE!3"`T*>65A2`D-#8Q
M#0IM:6QL:6]N+CPO:3X\+V9O;G0^/"]P/@T*/"]T9#X-"CPO='(^#0H\+W1A
M8FQE/@T*/'1A8FQE('-T>6QE/3-$)T)/4D1%4BU#3TQ,05!313H@8V]L;&%P
M6QE/3-$)T9/3E0M1D%-24Q9
M.B!!4DE!3"3X\9F]N
M="!S='EL93TS1"=&3TY4+49!34E,63H@05))04PG('-I>F4],T0R/CQI/E)E
M9FQE8W1S(&%N(&5F9F5C=&EV92!T87@@2!E"!R871E(&9O"!R871E+CPO:3X\+V9O;G0^/"]P/@T*/"]T9#X-"CPO
M='(^#0H\+W1A8FQE/@T*/"]D:78^/'-P86X^/"]S3X-"CPO:'1M;#X-"@T*
M+2TM+2TM/5].97AT4&%R=%\R.6$R9CDV95\T,&9C7S1C,F%?8C$Y95\U-3(X
M,S=B,#$T93(-"D-O;G1E;G0M3&]C871I;VXZ(&9I;&4Z+R\O0SHO,CEA,F8Y
M-F5?-#!F8U\T8S)A7V(Q.65?-34R.#,W8C`Q-&4R+U=O'0O:'1M;#L@8VAA7!E(&-O;G1E;G0],T0G=&5X="]H=&UL.R!C
M:&%R'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S65A'0^-"!Y96%R'0^,2!Y96%R/'-P86X^/"]S'0^,2!Y96%R/'-P86X^/"]S'0^,2!Y96%R/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S65A
M'0^-2!Y96%R'0^,34@>65A'0^/'-P86X^
M/"]S'0^/'-P86X^
M/"]S'0^/'-P86X^
M/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S65A'0^,B!Y96%R'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^,R!Y96%R65A'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^
M-2!Y96%R65A'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^,34@>65A'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S65A'0^,B!Y96%R'0^,3`@>65A'1U'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S65A
M'0^-2!Y96%R7!E.B!T97AT+VAT;6P[(&-H87)S970](G5S+6%S
M8VEI(@T*#0H\:'1M;#X-"B`@/&AE860^#0H@("`@/$U%5$$@:'1T'0O:'1M;#L@8VAA7!E/3-$=&5X="]J879A3X-"CPO:'1M;#X-"@T*+2TM
M+2TM/5].97AT4&%R=%\R.6$R9CDV95\T,&9C7S1C,F%?8C$Y95\U-3(X,S=B
M,#$T93(-"D-O;G1E;G0M3&]C871I;VXZ(&9I;&4Z+R\O0SHO,CEA,F8Y-F5?
M-#!F8U\T8S)A7V(Q.65?-34R.#,W8C`Q-&4R+U=O'0O:'1M;#L@8VAA7!E(&-O;G1E;G0],T0G=&5X="]H=&UL.R!C:&%R
M'0^/'-P86X^/"]S
M'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S
M'0^/'-P86X^/"]S
M2`D-BXR(&)I;&QI;VX@86YD(&1I;'5T960@96%R;FEN9W,@2!T;R!T:&4@861J=7-T;65N="!O9B!O=7(@2!E"!R871E(&9O65A"!O9B!F;W)E:6=N
M(&%N9"!5+E,N('1A>&%B;&4@:6YC;VUE+B!);B!A9&1I=&EO;BP@=7!O;B!C
M;VUP;&5T:6]N(&]F(&]U"!B96YE9FET('=H:6-H(&QO=V5R960@
M;W5R(&5F9F5C=&EV92!T87@@"!Y96%R7!E.B!T97AT+VAT;6P[
M(&-H87)S970](G5S+6%S8VEI(@T*#0H\:'1M;#X-"B`@/&AE860^#0H@("`@
M/$U%5$$@:'1T'0O:'1M;#L@8VAA7!E/3-$=&5X="]J
M879A&-L=61E9"!&&-L=61E9"!F'1087)T
M7S(Y83)F.39E7S0P9F-?-&,R85]B,3EE7S4U,C@S-V(P,31E,@T*0V]N=&5N
M="U,;V-A=&EO;CH@9FEL93HO+R]#.B\R.6$R9CDV95\T,&9C7S1C,F%?8C$Y
M95\U-3(X,S=B,#$T93(O5V]R:W-H965T'0O:F%V87-C3X-"B`@("`\=&%B;&4@8VQA'0^/'-P86X^/"]S
M'0^/'-P86X^/"]S
M'0^/'-P86X^/"]S
M'0^/'-P
M86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S
M'0^/'-P86X^/"]S
M'0^/'-P86X^/"]S
M'1087)T7S(Y
M83)F.39E7S0P9F-?-&,R85]B,3EE7S4U,C@S-V(P,31E,@T*0V]N=&5N="U,
M;V-A=&EO;CH@9FEL93HO+R]#.B\R.6$R9CDV95\T,&9C7S1C,F%?8C$Y95\U
M-3(X,S=B,#$T93(O5V]R:W-H965T'0O:F%V87-C3X-"B`@("`\=&%B;&4@8VQA'0^/'-P
M86X^/"]S'0^/'-P
M86X^/"]S'0^/'-P
M86X^/"]S'!E
M;G-E/"]T9#X-"B`@("`@("`@/'1D(&-L87-S/3-$;G5M/B@S.#`I/'-P86X^
M/"]SF5D(&=A:6YS(&]N(&EN=F5S=&UE;G1S/"]T9#X-
M"B`@("`@("`@/'1D(&-L87-S/3-$;G5M2!R96UE87-U3X-"CPO
M:'1M;#X-"@T*+2TM+2TM/5].97AT4&%R=%\R.6$R9CDV95\T,&9C7S1C,F%?
M8C$Y95\U-3(X,S=B,#$T93(-"D-O;G1E;G0M3&]C871I;VXZ(&9I;&4Z+R\O
M0SHO,CEA,F8Y-F5?-#!F8U\T8S)A7V(Q.65?-34R.#,W8C`Q-&4R+U=O'0O:'1M;#L@
M8VAA7!E(&-O;G1E;G0],T0G=&5X
M="]H=&UL.R!C:&%R'1087)T7S(Y83)F.39E7S0P9F-?-&,R85]B,3EE7S4U,C@S
M-V(P,31E,@T*0V]N=&5N="U,;V-A=&EO;CH@9FEL93HO+R]#.B\R.6$R9CDV
M95\T,&9C7S1C,F%?8C$Y95\U-3(X,S=B,#$T93(O5V]R:W-H965T'0O:F%V87-C3X-"B`@("`\=&%B;&4@8VQA'0^/'-P
M86X^/"]S'0^/'-P
M86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^
M/'-P86X^/"]S'0^
M/'-P86X^/"]S'0^
M/'-P86X^/"]S'0^
M/'-P86X^/"]S2!A;F0@3W1H97(@26YV97-T;65N
M=',\+W1D/@T*("`@("`@("`\=&0@8VQA'0^/'-P86X^/"]S
M'0^/'-P86X^/"]S
M'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]SF5D($QO'0^
M/'-P86X^/"]S'0^
M/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]SF5D($=A:6YS/"]T9#X-"B`@("`@
M("`@/'1D(&-L87-S/3-$;G5M'0^/'-P86X^/"]S
M'0^/'-P86X^/"]S
M'0^/'-P86X^
M/"]S'0^/'-P86X^
M/"]S'0^/'-P86X^
M/"]S'0^/'-P86X^
M/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^
M/'-P86X^/"]S'0^
M/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]SF5D($QO'0^/'-P86X^/"]S
M'0^/'-P86X^/"]S
M'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S2!A;F0@3W1H97(@26YV97-T;65N=',\+W1D/@T*("`@("`@
M("`\=&0@8VQA'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S
M'0^/'-P86X^/"]S
M'0^/'-P86X^/"]S
M'0^/'-P86X^/"]S
M'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]SF5D($=A:6YS/"]T9#X-"B`@("`@("`@
M/'1D(&-L87-S/3-$;G5M'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]SF5D($QO'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]SF5D($=A:6YS/"]T9#X-"B`@("`@("`@/'1D(&-L87-S
M/3-$;G5M'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S2!A;F0@3W1H97(@26YV97-T;65N=',\
M+W1D/@T*("`@("`@("`\=&0@8VQA7!E
M.B!T97AT+VAT;6P[(&-H87)S970](G5S+6%S8VEI(@T*#0H\:'1M;#X-"B`@
M/&AE860^#0H@("`@/$U%5$$@:'1T'0O:'1M;#L@8VAA7!E/3-$=&5X="]J879A'0^/'-P
M86X^/"]S'0^/'-P
M86X^/"]SF5D($QOF5D($QO'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]SF5D($QOF5D($QOF5D($QOF5D($QOF5D($QOF5D($QO'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]SF5D($QOF5D
M($QO'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^
M/"]SF5D($QO'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]SF5D($QO'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^
M/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S
M'0^/'-P86X^/"]S
M'1087)T7S(Y83)F.39E7S0P9F-?-&,R85]B,3EE
M7S4U,C@S-V(P,31E,@T*0V]N=&5N="U,;V-A=&EO;CH@9FEL93HO+R]#.B\R
M.6$R9CDV95\T,&9C7S1C,F%?8C$Y95\U-3(X,S=B,#$T93(O5V]R:W-H965T
M'0O:F%V87-C
M3X-"B`@("`\=&%B;&4@
M8VQA'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S3X-"CPO:'1M;#X-"@T*
M+2TM+2TM/5].97AT4&%R=%\R.6$R9CDV95\T,&9C7S1C,F%?8C$Y95\U-3(X
M,S=B,#$T93(-"D-O;G1E;G0M3&]C871I;VXZ(&9I;&4Z+R\O0SHO,CEA,F8Y
M-F5?-#!F8U\T8S)A7V(Q.65?-34R.#,W8C`Q-&4R+U=O'0O:'1M;#L@8VAA7!E(&-O;G1E;G0],T0G=&5X="]H=&UL.R!C
M:&%R65A65A'0^
M/'-P86X^/"]S65A65A3X-"CPO:'1M;#X-"@T*+2TM+2TM/5].97AT4&%R
M=%\R.6$R9CDV95\T,&9C7S1C,F%?8C$Y95\U-3(X,S=B,#$T93(-"D-O;G1E
M;G0M3&]C871I;VXZ(&9I;&4Z+R\O0SHO,CEA,F8Y-F5?-#!F8U\T8S)A7V(Q
M.65?-34R.#,W8C`Q-&4R+U=O'0O:'1M;#L@8VAA2!#;VYT
M2!#;VYT&EM=6T@
M;&5N9W1H(&]F('1I;64@:&5D9V5D(&EN(&-A'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^,R!Y96%R&-H86YG92!C;VYT'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P
M86X^/"]S'0^/'-P
M86X^/"]S'0^/'-P
M86X^/"]S'0^/'-P
M86X^/"]S'0^/'-P
M86X^/"]S'0^/'-P
M86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S&5D+6EN=&5R97-T(')A=&4@8V]N=')A8W1S(&YO="!D97-I9VYA
M=&5D(&%S(&AE9&=E'0^
M/'-P86X^/"]S'0^
M/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P
M86X^/"]S'0^/'-P
M86X^/"]S'0^/'-P
M86X^/"]S'0^/'-P
M86X^/"]S'0^/'-P
M86X^/"]S'0^/'-P
M86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^
M/'-P86X^/"]S'0^
M/'-P86X^/"]S2!C;VYT'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S2!C97)T86EN(&-O=6YT97)P87)T>2!A9W)E96UE;G1S
M/"]T9#X-"B`@("`@("`@/'1D(&-L87-S/3-$;G5M'0^
M/'-P86X^/"]S'0^
M/'-P86X^/"]S'0^
M/'-P86X^/"]S'0^
M/'-P86X^/"]S'0^
M/'-P86X^/"]S'0^
M/'-P86X^/"]S'0^
M/'-P86X^/"]S'0^
M/'-P86X^/"]S'0^
M/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S3X-"CPO:'1M;#X-
M"@T*+2TM+2TM/5].97AT4&%R=%\R.6$R9CDV95\T,&9C7S1C,F%?8C$Y95\U
M-3(X,S=B,#$T93(-"D-O;G1E;G0M3&]C871I;VXZ(&9I;&4Z+R\O0SHO,CEA
M,F8Y-F5?-#!F8U\T8S)A7V(Q.65?-34R.#,W8C`Q-&4R+U=O'0O:'1M;#L@8VAA'0^/'-P86X^/"]S
M'0^/'-P86X^/"]S
M'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^
M/"]S'0^/'-P86X^
M/"]S&-H86YG92!#;VYT'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S2!#;VYT'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^
M/"]S'0^/'-P86X^
M/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S2!#;VYT
M'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S
M'0^/'-P86X^/"]S
M2!#;VYT'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S2!#;VYT'0^/'-P
M86X^/"]S'0^/'-P
M86X^/"]S'0^/'-P
M86X^/"]S'0^/'-P
M86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P
M86X^/"]S'0^/'-P
M86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S7!E.B!T97AT+VAT;6P[
M(&-H87)S970](G5S+6%S8VEI(@T*#0H\:'1M;#X-"B`@/&AE860^#0H@("`@
M/$U%5$$@:'1T'0O:'1M;#L@8VAA7!E/3-$=&5X="]J
M879A&-H86YG92!#;VYT'1087)T7S(Y83)F.39E7S0P9F-?-&,R85]B,3EE
M7S4U,C@S-V(P,31E,@T*0V]N=&5N="U,;V-A=&EO;CH@9FEL93HO+R]#.B\R
M.6$R9CDV95\T,&9C7S1C,F%?8C$Y95\U-3(X,S=B,#$T93(O5V]R:W-H965T
M'0O:F%V87-C
M3X-"B`@("`\=&%B;&4@
M8VQA'1087)T7S(Y83)F.39E7S0P9F-?-&,R
M85]B,3EE7S4U,C@S-V(P,31E,@T*0V]N=&5N="U,;V-A=&EO;CH@9FEL93HO
M+R]#.B\R.6$R9CDV95\T,&9C7S1C,F%?8C$Y95\U-3(X,S=B,#$T93(O5V]R
M:W-H965T'0O
M:F%V87-C3X-"B`@("`\
M=&%B;&4@8VQA'0^
M/'-P86X^/"]S'0^
M/'-P86X^/"]S'0^
M/'-P86X^/"]SF5D(&EN($]#22P@=&%X(&5F9F5C=#PO
M=&0^#0H@("`@("`@(#QT9"!C;&%S7!E.B!T97AT+VAT;6P[(&-H87)S970](G5S+6%S8VEI(@T*#0H\:'1M;#X-
M"B`@/&AE860^#0H@("`@/$U%5$$@:'1T'0O:'1M;#L@8VAA2!#;VYT'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'1087)T7S(Y83)F.39E
M7S0P9F-?-&,R85]B,3EE7S4U,C@S-V(P,31E,@T*0V]N=&5N="U,;V-A=&EO
M;CH@9FEL93HO+R]#.B\R.6$R9CDV95\T,&9C7S1C,F%?8C$Y95\U-3(X,S=B
M,#$T93(O5V]R:W-H965T'0O:F%V87-C3X-"B`@("`\=&%B;&4@8VQA'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P
M86X^/"]S'0^
M/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^
M/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S
M'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S
M'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^
M/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P
M86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S
M2!S96-U'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S
M'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P
M86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S
M'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^
M/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S2!S96-U'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^
M/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P
M86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^
M/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P
M86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^
M/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P
M86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^
M/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P
M86X^/"]S'0^/'-P
M86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S
M'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^
M/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P
M86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^
M/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P
M86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S
M'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^
M/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P
M86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^
M/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S&ES=',@86YD(&9A:7(@=F%L=64@861J
M=7-T;65N=',@'1087)T7S(Y83)F.39E7S0P9F-?-&,R85]B,3EE7S4U,C@S-V(P,31E,@T*
M0V]N=&5N="U,;V-A=&EO;CH@9FEL93HO+R]#.B\R.6$R9CDV95\T,&9C7S1C
M,F%?8C$Y95\U-3(X,S=B,#$T93(O5V]R:W-H965T'0O:F%V87-C3X-"B`@("`\=&%B;&4@8VQA'0^/'-P
M86X^/"]S'0^/'-P
M86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S7!E.B!T97AT+VAT;6P[(&-H
M87)S970](G5S+6%S8VEI(@T*#0H\:'1M;#X-"B`@/&AE860^#0H@("`@/$U%
M5$$@:'1T'0O
M:'1M;#L@8VAA7!E/3-$=&5X="]J879A
MF5D(&%N9"!U;G)E86QI>F5D(&=A:6YS
M("AL;W-S97,I.CPO'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]SF5D
M(&=A:6YS("AL;W-S97,I(&EN8VQU9&5D(&EN(&]T:&5R(&EN8V]M92`H97AP
M96YS92D@F5D(&%N9"!U;G)E86QI>F5D(&=A:6YS("AL;W-S97,I
M.CPO'0^/'-P
M86X^/"]S'0^/'-P
M86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'!E;G-E*3PO=&0^#0H@("`@("`@(#QT9"!C;&%S'0^/'-P86X^
M/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S
M7!E.B!T97AT+VAT;6P[(&-H87)S970]
M(G5S+6%S8VEI(@T*#0H\:'1M;#X-"B`@/&AE860^#0H@("`@/$U%5$$@:'1T
M'0O:'1M;#L@
M8VAA7!E/3-$=&5X="]J879A'0^/'-P86X^
M/"]S'0^/'-P86X^
M/"]S7!E.B!T97AT+VAT
M;6P[(&-H87)S970](G5S+6%S8VEI(@T*#0H\:'1M;#X-"B`@/&AE860^#0H@
M("`@/$U%5$$@:'1T'0O:'1M;#L@8VAA7!E/3-$=&5X
M="]J879A2P@4&QA
M;G0@86YD($5Q=6EP;65N="!;3&EN92!)=&5M'1087)T7S(Y
M83)F.39E7S0P9F-?-&,R85]B,3EE7S4U,C@S-V(P,31E,@T*0V]N=&5N="U,
M;V-A=&EO;CH@9FEL93HO+R]#.B\R.6$R9CDV95\T,&9C7S1C,F%?8C$Y95\U
M-3(X,S=B,#$T93(O5V]R:W-H965T'0O:F%V87-C3X-"B`@("`\=&%B;&4@8VQA2!A;F0@17%U
M:7!M96YT("T@061D:71I;VYA;"!);F9O2P@4&QA;G0@86YD($5Q=6EP;65N="!;3&EN92!)=&5M
M'1087)T7S(Y83)F.39E7S0P9F-?-&,R85]B,3EE7S4U,C@S
M-V(P,31E,@T*0V]N=&5N="U,;V-A=&EO;CH@9FEL93HO+R]#.B\R.6$R9CDV
M95\T,&9C7S1C,F%?8C$Y95\U-3(X,S=B,#$T93(O5V]R:W-H965T'0O:F%V87-C3X-"B`@("`\=&%B;&4@8VQA7!E($=L;V)A;"!3
M+F$@'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S3PO=&0^
M#0H@("`@("`@(#QT9"!C;&%S'0^4VMY7!E(BD\'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P
M86X^/"]S'0^/'-P
M86X^/"]S'0^/'-P
M86X^/"]S'0^/'-P
M86X^/"]S'0^/'-P
M86X^/"]S'0^/'-P
M86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^
M/'-P86X^/"]S'0^
M/'-P86X^/"]S'0^
M/'-P86X^/"]S'0^
M/'-P86X^/"]S'0^
M/'-P86X^/"]S'0^
M/'-P86X^/"]S7!E.B!T97AT
M+VAT;6P[(&-H87)S970](G5S+6%S8VEI(@T*#0H\:'1M;#X-"B`@/&AE860^
M#0H@("`@/$U%5$$@:'1T'0O:'1M;#L@8VAA7!E/3-$
M=&5X="]J879A2UB
M87-E9#QB7!E($=L;V)A
M;"!3+F$@'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S65A'0^,R!Y96%R65A'0^-R!Y96%R'0^,34@>65A'0^-2!Y96%R65A'1087)T
M7S(Y83)F.39E7S0P9F-?-&,R85]B,3EE7S4U,C@S-V(P,31E,@T*0V]N=&5N
M="U,;V-A=&EO;CH@9FEL93HO+R]#.B\R.6$R9CDV95\T,&9C7S1C,F%?8C$Y
M95\U-3(X,S=B,#$T93(O5V]R:W-H965T'0O:F%V87-C3X-"B`@("`\=&%B;&4@8VQA6EN9R!!;6]U
M;G0@;V8@1V]O9'=I;&P@*$1E=&%I;"D@*%531"`D*3QB'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S3X-"CPO:'1M;#X-"@T*+2TM+2TM/5].
M97AT4&%R=%\R.6$R9CDV95\T,&9C7S1C,F%?8C$Y95\U-3(X,S=B,#$T93(-
M"D-O;G1E;G0M3&]C871I;VXZ(&9I;&4Z+R\O0SHO,CEA,F8Y-F5?-#!F8U\T
M8S)A7V(Q.65?-34R.#,W8C`Q-&4R+U=O'0O:'1M;#L@8VAA7!E(&-O;G1E;G0],T0G=&5X="]H=&UL.R!C:&%R3X-"CPO:'1M;#X-"@T*
M+2TM+2TM/5].97AT4&%R=%\R.6$R9CDV95\T,&9C7S1C,F%?8C$Y95\U-3(X
M,S=B,#$T93(-"D-O;G1E;G0M3&]C871I;VXZ(&9I;&4Z+R\O0SHO,CEA,F8Y
M-F5?-#!F8U\T8S)A7V(Q.65?-34R.#,W8C`Q-&4R+U=O'0O:'1M;#L@8VAA7!E(&-O;G1E;G0],T0G=&5X="]H=&UL.R!C
M:&%RF%T:6]N/"]T9#X-"B`@("`@("`@/'1D(&-L87-S
M/3-$;G5M/B@R+#DS-RD\2UB87-E9#PO=&0^
M#0H@("`@("`@(#QT9"!C;&%S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]SF%T:6]N/"]T9#X-"B`@("`@("`@/'1D(&-L87-S/3-$;G5M
M/B@Q+#@Y.2D\'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]SF%T:6]N/"]T9#X-"B`@
M("`@("`@/'1D(&-L87-S/3-$;G5M/B@Q,S8I/'-P86X^/"]S3X-"CPO:'1M;#X-"@T*+2TM+2TM/5].97AT
M4&%R=%\R.6$R9CDV95\T,&9C7S1C,F%?8C$Y95\U-3(X,S=B,#$T93(-"D-O
M;G1E;G0M3&]C871I;VXZ(&9I;&4Z+R\O0SHO,CEA,F8Y-F5?-#!F8U\T8S)A
M7V(Q.65?-34R.#,W8C`Q-&4R+U=O'0O:'1M;#L@8VAA7!E(&-O;G1E;G0],T0G=&5X="]H=&UL.R!C:&%R6EN9R!!;6]U;G0\+W1D/@T*("`@("`@
M("`\=&0@8VQA'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S3X-"CPO:'1M;#X-"@T*+2TM+2TM/5].97AT4&%R=%\R.6$R9CDV95\T,&9C
M7S1C,F%?8C$Y95\U-3(X,S=B,#$T93(-"D-O;G1E;G0M3&]C871I;VXZ(&9I
M;&4Z+R\O0SHO,CEA,F8Y-F5?-#!F8U\T8S)A7V(Q.65?-34R.#,W8C`Q-&4R
M+U=O'0O
M:'1M;#L@8VAA7!E(&-O;G1E;G0]
M,T0G=&5X="]H=&UL.R!C:&%R65A65A65A'0^,R!Y96%R'0^,34@>65A'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^-R!Y96%R'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S65A3X-
M"CPO:'1M;#X-"@T*+2TM+2TM/5].97AT4&%R=%\R.6$R9CDV95\T,&9C7S1C
M,F%?8C$Y95\U-3(X,S=B,#$T93(-"D-O;G1E;G0M3&]C871I;VXZ(&9I;&4Z
M+R\O0SHO,CEA,F8Y-F5?-#!F8U\T8S)A7V(Q.65?-34R.#,W8C`Q-&4R+U=O
M'0O:'1M
M;#L@8VAA7!E(&-O;G1E;G0],T0G
M=&5X="]H=&UL.R!C:&%RF%T:6]N(&5XF%T:6]N(&]F(&-AF5D('-O9G1W87)E/"]T9#X-"B`@("`@("`@/'1D(&-L87-S/3-$;G5M
M7!E.B!T97AT+VAT;6P[(&-H87)S970](G5S+6%S
M8VEI(@T*#0H\:'1M;#X-"B`@/&AE860^#0H@("`@/$U%5$$@:'1T'0O:'1M;#L@8VAA7!E/3-$=&5X="]J879AF%T:6]N($5X'!E8W1E9"!!;6]R=&EZ871I;VX@17AP96YS92!;3&EN92!)=&5M'0^
M/'-P86X^/"]S'1087)T7S(Y83)F.39E7S0P9F-?-&,R85]B,3EE7S4U,C@S-V(P,31E
M,@T*0V]N=&5N="U,;V-A=&EO;CH@9FEL93HO+R]#.B\R.6$R9CDV95\T,&9C
M7S1C,F%?8C$Y95\U-3(X,S=B,#$T93(O5V]R:W-H965T'0O:F%V87-C3X-"B`@("`\=&%B;&4@8VQA'0^/'-P
M86X^/"]S'0^/'-P
M86X^/"]S'0^/'-P
M86X^/"]S'0^/'-P
M86X^/"]S'0^
M/'-P86X^/"]SF5D(&1I
M'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P
M86X^/"]S'0^/'-P
M86X^/"]S'0^/'-P
M86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]SF5D(&1I'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^2G5N(#$U+`T*"0DR,#$S
M/'-P86X^/"]S'0^
M2G5N(#$U+`T*"0DR,#$S/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S7!E.B!T97AT+VAT;6P[(&-H87)S970](G5S+6%S8VEI(@T*#0H\:'1M
M;#X-"B`@/&AE860^#0H@("`@/$U%5$$@:'1T'0O:'1M;#L@8VAA7!E/3-$=&5X="]J879A'0^/'-P
M86X^/"]S'0^/'-P
M86X^/"]S'0^/'-P
M86X^/"]S2!D871E/"]T9#X-"B`@("`@("`@/'1D(&-L87-S/3-$=&5X=#Y397`@,C'0^/'-P86X^/"]S6UE;G0L($9I6UE;G0\+W1D/@T*("`@("`@("`\=&0@8VQA'0^+2TP,RTQ-3QS'0^/'-P86X^
M/"]S6UE;G0\+W1D/@T*("`@("`@
M("`\=&0@8VQA'0^+2TP.2TQ-3QS'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^2G5N(#$L#0H)"3(P,30\'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^+2TP-2TQ-3QS2!$871E/"]T9#X-"B`@("`@("`@/'1D(&-L87-S/3-$
M=&5X=#XM+3`V+3`Q/'-P86X^/"]S'0^+2TP-BTP,3QS6UE;G0\+W1D/@T*("`@("`@("`\=&0@8VQA'0^+2TQ
M,2TQ-3QS'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^
M/'-P86X^/"]S'0^
M/'-P86X^/"]S'0^
M/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P
M86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^+2TP,RTR
M-3QS'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^
M/'-P86X^/"]S'0^+2TP.2TR-3QS2`X=&@@,C`Q-CPO=&0^#0H@("`@("`@(#QT9"!C;&%S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S2!D871E/"]T9#X-"B`@("`@("`@/'1D(&-L87-S/3-$=&5X=#Y&
M96(@."P-"@D),C`Q-CQS'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^+2TP,BTP.#QS2`X=&@@,C`Q-B!\(%-E;6D@06YN=6%L
M(%!A>6UE;G0L(%-E8V]N9"!087EM96YT/"]T9#X-"B`@("`@("`@/'1D(&-L
M87-S/3-$=&5X=#X\'0^
M/'-P86X^/"]S'0^
M/'-P86X^/"]S'0^
M/'-P86X^/"]S'0^+2TP."TP,3QS2!$871E/"]T
M9#X-"B`@("`@("`@/'1D(&-L87-S/3-$=&5X=#XM+3`X+3`X/'-P86X^/"]S
M'0^+2TP."TP.#QS
M'0^2G5N(#$L#0H)"3(P,3D\'0^/'-P86X^/"]S6UE;G0L($9I6UE;G0\+W1D/@T*("`@
M("`@("`\=&0@8VQA'0^+2TP-2TQ-3QS'0^/'-P86X^/"]S6UE;G0L(%-E8V]N9"!087EM96YT/"]T9#X-
M"B`@("`@("`@/'1D(&-L87-S/3-$=&5X=#X\'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^+2TQ,2TQ-3QS2!$871E/"]T9#X-"B`@("`@("`@/'1D(&-L87-S/3-$=&5X=#XM
M+3$R+3`Q/'-P86X^/"]S'0^+2TQ,BTP,3QS'0^3V-T(#$L#0H)
M"3(P,C`\'0^/'-P86X^/"]S6UE;G0L($9I
M6UE;G0\+W1D/@T*("`@("`@("`\=&0@8VQA'0^+2TP,RTQ-3QS'0^/'-P86X^/"]S6UE
M;G0L(%-E8V]N9"!087EM96YT/"]T9#X-"B`@("`@("`@/'1D(&-L87-S/3-$
M=&5X=#X\'0^/'-P86X^
M/"]S'0^/'-P86X^
M/"]S'0^/'-P86X^
M/"]S'0^+2TP.2TQ-3QS2!$871E/"]T9#X-"B`@
M("`@("`@/'1D(&-L87-S/3-$=&5X=#XM+3$P+3`Q/'-P86X^/"]S'0^+2TQ,"TP,3QS'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^1F5B(#@L#0H)"3(P,C$\
M'0^
M/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^+2TP,BTP,3QS2!$871E/"]T9#X-"B`@("`@("`@/'1D(&-L87-S/3-$=&5X=#XM+3`R+3`X
M/'-P86X^/"]S'0^
M+2TP,BTP.#QS6UE;G0\+W1D
M/@T*("`@("`@("`\=&0@8VQA'0^+2TP."TP,3QS'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^
M/"]S'0^/'-P86X^
M/"]S'0^/'-P86X^
M/"]S2!D
M871E/"]T9#X-"B`@("`@("`@/'1D(&-L87-S/3-$=&5X=#Y*=6X@,2P-"@D)
M,C`S.3QS'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P
M86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^+2TP-2TQ-3QS2!$871E/"]T9#X-"B`@("`@("`@/'1D(&-L87-S
M/3-$=&5X=#XM+3`V+3`Q/'-P86X^/"]S'0^+2TP-BTP,3QS'0^/'-P86X^
M/"]S'0^/'-P86X^
M/"]S'0^/'-P86X^
M/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^+2TQ,BTP,3QS'0^/'-P
M86X^/"]S'0^/'-P
M86X^/"]S'0^/'-P
M86X^/"]S'0^3V-T(#$L#0H)"3(P-#`\'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^
M/'-P86X^/"]S'0^
M/'-P86X^/"]S'0^
M/'-P86X^/"]S'0^+2TP,RTQ-3QS2!$871E/"]T
M9#X-"B`@("`@("`@/'1D(&-L87-S/3-$=&5X=#XM+3`T+3`Q/'-P86X^/"]S
M'0^+2TP-"TP,3QS
M'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^+2TQ,"TP,3QS
M2`X=&@@,C`T
M,3PO=&0^#0H@("`@("`@(#QT9"!C;&%S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S2!D871E/"]T
M9#X-"B`@("`@("`@/'1D(&-L87-S/3-$=&5X=#Y&96(@."P-"@D),C`T,3QS
M'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S2`X=&@@,C`T,2!\(%-E;6D@06YN=6%L(%!A>6UE;G0L($9I6UE;G0\+W1D/@T*("`@("`@("`\=&0@8VQA'0^+2TP
M,BTP,3QS'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^
M/'-P86X^/"]S'0^
M/'-P86X^/"]S'0^
M/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^+2TP."TP.#QS'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'1087)T7S(Y83)F.39E7S0P9F-?
M-&,R85]B,3EE7S4U,C@S-V(P,31E,@T*0V]N=&5N="U,;V-A=&EO;CH@9FEL
M93HO+R]#.B\R.6$R9CDV95\T,&9C7S1C,F%?8C$Y95\U-3(X,S=B,#$T93(O
M5V]R:W-H965T'0O:F%V87-C3X-"B`@
M("`\=&%B;&4@8VQA'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S3X-"CPO:'1M;#X-"@T*+2TM
M+2TM/5].97AT4&%R=%\R.6$R9CDV95\T,&9C7S1C,F%?8C$Y95\U-3(X,S=B
M,#$T93(-"D-O;G1E;G0M3&]C871I;VXZ(&9I;&4Z+R\O0SHO,CEA,F8Y-F5?
M-#!F8U\T8S)A7V(Q.65?-34R.#,W8C`Q-&4R+U=O'0O:'1M;#L@8VAA7!E(&-O;G1E;G0],T0G=&5X="]H=&UL.R!C:&%R
M'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S&5S/"]S=')O;F&5S/"]T9#X-"B`@("`@("`@
M/'1D(&-L87-S/3-$;G5M&5S/"]T9#X-"B`@("`@("`@/'1D(&-L87-S/3-$;G5M'1087)T7S(Y83)F.39E7S0P9F-?-&,R85]B,3EE7S4U,C@S-V(P
M,31E,@T*0V]N=&5N="U,;V-A=&EO;CH@9FEL93HO+R]#.B\R.6$R9CDV95\T
M,&9C7S1C,F%?8C$Y95\U-3(X,S=B,#$T93(O5V]R:W-H965T'0O:F%V87-C3X-"B`@("`\=&%B;&4@8VQA"!%>'!E;G-E("A"96YE9FET*2!;3&EN92!)=&5M3X-"CPO:'1M;#X-"@T*+2TM+2TM
M/5].97AT4&%R=%\R.6$R9CDV95\T,&9C7S1C,F%?8C$Y95\U-3(X,S=B,#$T
M93(-"D-O;G1E;G0M3&]C871I;VXZ(&9I;&4Z+R\O0SHO,CEA,F8Y-F5?-#!F
M8U\T8S)A7V(Q.65?-34R.#,W8C`Q-&4R+U=O'0O:'1M;#L@8VAA7!E(&-O;G1E;G0],T0G=&5X="]H=&UL.R!C:&%R2!2871E(&%N9"!02!&961E"!2871E(%M,:6YE($ET96US
M73PO'0^/'-P
M86X^/"]S'0^/'-P
M86X^/"]S'0^/'-P
M86X^/"]S'0^/'-P
M86X^/"]S2!R871E/"]T9#X-"B`@("`@("`@/'1D(&-L87-S
M/3-$=&5X=#X\'0^/'-P
M86X^/"]S'0^/'-P
M86X^/"]S'0^/'-P
M86X^/"]S'0^/'-P
M86X^/"]S&5D(&%T(&QO=V5R(')A=&5S/"]T9#X-"B`@
M("`@("`@/'1D(&-L87-S/3-$=&5X=#X\'1087)T7S(Y83)F.39E7S0P9F-?-&,R85]B,3EE7S4U,C@S-V(P,31E
M,@T*0V]N=&5N="U,;V-A=&EO;CH@9FEL93HO+R]#.B\R.6$R9CDV95\T,&9C
M7S1C,F%?8C$Y95\U-3(X,S=B,#$T93(O5V]R:W-H965T'0O:F%V87-C3X-"B`@("`\=&%B;&4@8VQA"!!69O"!AF5D(&=A:6X@
M;VX@:6YV97-T;65N=',\+W1D/@T*("`@("`@("`\=&0@8VQA"!L:6%B:6QI=&EE'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S"!L:6%B
M:6QI=&EE'1087)T7S(Y83)F.39E7S0P
M9F-?-&,R85]B,3EE7S4U,C@S-V(P,31E,@T*0V]N=&5N="U,;V-A=&EO;CH@
M9FEL93HO+R]#.B\R.6$R9CDV95\T,&9C7S1C,F%?8C$Y95\U-3(X,S=B,#$T
M93(O5V]R:W-H965T'0O:F%V87-C3X-
M"B`@("`\=&%B;&4@8VQAF5D('1A>"!L:6%B:6QI='D@;VX@=&5M&5S('!A:60\+W1D/@T*("`@("`@("`\=&0@8VQAF5D('1A>"!B96YE9FETF5D('1A>"!B96YE9FET
MF5D('1A>"!B96YE9FET65A'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'1087)T7S(Y83)F.39E
M7S0P9F-?-&,R85]B,3EE7S4U,C@S-V(P,31E,@T*0V]N=&5N="U,;V-A=&EO
M;CH@9FEL93HO+R]#.B\R.6$R9CDV95\T,&9C7S1C,F%?8C$Y95\U-3(X,S=B
M,#$T93(O5V]R:W-H965T'0O:F%V87-C3X-"B`@("`\=&%B;&4@8VQA"!#
M;VYT:6YG96YC>2!;3&EN92!)=&5M"!P;W-I=&EO;G,@"!P;W-I=&EO;G,@7!E
M.B!T97AT+VAT;6P[(&-H87)S970](G5S+6%S8VEI(@T*#0H\:'1M;#X-"B`@
M/&AE860^#0H@("`@/$U%5$$@:'1T'0O:'1M;#L@8VAA7!E/3-$=&5X="]J879A'0^/'-P86X^/"]S65A"!Y96%R'0^/'-P86X^/"]S"!Y96%R'0^,C`P-CQS2!\($QO=V5R($QI;6ET/"]T9#X-"B`@("`@("`@
M/'1D(&-L87-S/3-$=&5X=#X\"!%>&%M:6YA
M=&EO;B!;3&EN92!)=&5M2!\(%5P"!%>&%M:6YA=&EO;B!;
M3&EN92!)=&5M'1087)T7S(Y83)F.39E7S0P9F-?-&,R
M85]B,3EE7S4U,C@S-V(P,31E,@T*0V]N=&5N="U,;V-A=&EO;CH@9FEL93HO
M+R]#.B\R.6$R9CDV95\T,&9C7S1C,F%?8C$Y95\U-3(X,S=B,#$T93(O5V]R
M:W-H965T'0O
M:F%V87-C3X-"B`@("`\
M=&%B;&4@8VQA'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^
M/'-P86X^/"]S'0^
M/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S3X-"CPO:'1M;#X-"@T*+2TM+2TM/5].97AT
M4&%R=%\R.6$R9CDV95\T,&9C7S1C,F%?8C$Y95\U-3(X,S=B,#$T93(-"D-O
M;G1E;G0M3&]C871I;VXZ(&9I;&4Z+R\O0SHO,CEA,F8Y-F5?-#!F8U\T8S)A
M7V(Q.65?-34R.#,W8C`Q-&4R+U=O'0O:'1M;#L@8VAA7!E(&-O;G1E;G0],T0G=&5X="]H=&UL.R!C:&%R'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S
M'0^/'-P86X^/"]S7!E.B!T
M97AT+VAT;6P[(&-H87)S970](G5S+6%S8VEI(@T*#0H\:'1M;#X-"B`@/&AE
M860^#0H@("`@/$U%5$$@:'1T'0O:'1M;#L@8VAA7!E
M/3-$=&5X="]J879A'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^
M/'-P86X^/"]S'0^
M/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S7!E.B!T97AT+VAT;6P[(&-H87)S
M970](G5S+6%S8VEI(@T*#0H\:'1M;#X-"B`@/&AE860^#0H@("`@/$U%5$$@
M:'1T'0O:'1M
M;#L@8VAA7!E/3-$=&5X="]J879A"!L:6%B:6QI=&EE7!E.B!T97AT+VAT;6P[(&-H87)S970](G5S
M+6%S8VEI(@T*#0H\:'1M;#X-"B`@/&AE860^#0H@("`@/$U%5$$@:'1T'0O:'1M;#L@8VAA
M7!E/3-$=&5X="]J879A'0^/'-P86X^
M/"]S'0^/'-P86X^
M/"]S'0^/'-P86X^
M/"]S'0^/'-P86X^
M/"]S'0^/'-P86X^
M/"]S'0^/'-P86X^
M/"]S'!E;G-E(&9O'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P
M86X^/"]S'0^/'-P
M86X^/"]S'0^/'-P
M86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S
M'0^/'-P86X^/"]S
M'0^/'-P86X^/"]S
M'0^/'-P86X^/"]S
M'1087)T7S(Y83)F.39E
M7S0P9F-?-&,R85]B,3EE7S4U,C@S-V(P,31E,@T*0V]N=&5N="U,;V-A=&EO
M;CH@9FEL93HO+R]#.B\R.6$R9CDV95\T,&9C7S1C,F%?8C$Y95\U-3(X,S=B
M,#$T93(O5V]R:W-H965T'0O:F%V87-C3X-"B`@("`\=&%B;&4@8VQA'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0O:F%V
M87-C3X-"B`@("`\=&%B
M;&4@8VQA2!#;&%I;7,\8G(^55,@4W1A=&4@1&ES=')I8W0@
M0V]U2`S,2P@,C`Q,CQB2!#;&%I;7,\8G(^1T5234%.63QB2!#;&%I;7,\8G(^1T5234%.63QB6YC('!R;W1O8V]L/&)R/DQE9V%L36%T=&5R/&)R/CPO=&@^#0H@("`@("`@
M(#QT:"!C;&%S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^
M/'-P86X^/"]S'0^
M/'-P86X^/"]S'0^
M/'-P86X^/"]S'0^
M/'-P86X^/"]S'0^
M/'-P86X^/"]S'0^
M/'-P86X^/"]S'0^
M/'-P86X^/"]S'0^
M/'-P86X^/"]S'0^
M/'-P86X^/"]S'0^
M/'-P86X^/"]S'0^
M/'-P86X^/"]S'0^
M/'-P86X^/"]S'0^
M/'-P86X^/"]S'0^
M/'-P86X^/"]S'0^
M/'-P86X^/"]S'0^
M/'-P86X^/"]S'0^
M/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S&EM=6T\+W1D/@T*("`@("`@("`\=&0@8VQA'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P
M86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S2!B92!F:6YE9"!I
M9B!F;W5N9"!T;R!H879E(&)R96%C:&5D(&$@;&5G86QL>2!B:6YD:6YG(&-O
M;6UI=&UE;G0\+W1D/@T*("`@("`@("`\=&0@8VQA'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^
M/"]S'0^/'-P86X^
M/"]S'0^/'-P86X^
M/"]S'0^/'-P86X^
M/"]S'0^/'-P86X^
M/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'1087)T7S(Y83)F.39E7S0P9F-?-&,R85]B
M,3EE7S4U,C@S-V(P,31E,@T*0V]N=&5N="U,;V-A=&EO;CH@9FEL93HO+R]#
M.B\R.6$R9CDV95\T,&9C7S1C,F%?8C$Y95\U-3(X,S=B,#$T93(O5V]R:W-H
M965T'0O:'1M;#L@
M8VAA7!E(&-O;G1E;G0],T0G=&5X
M="]H=&UL.R!C:&%R'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S65A'0^/'-P86X^
M/"]S'0^/'-P86X^
M/"]S'0^/'-P86X^
M/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'1087)T7S(Y83)F.39E7S0P9F-?-&,R85]B
M,3EE7S4U,C@S-V(P,31E,@T*0V]N=&5N="U,;V-A=&EO;CH@9FEL93HO+R]#
M.B\R.6$R9CDV95\T,&9C7S1C,F%?8C$Y95\U-3(X,S=B,#$T93(O5V]R:W-H
M965T'0O:'1M;#L@
M8VAA7!E(&-O;G1E;G0],T0G=&5X
M="]H=&UL.R!C:&%R'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S2!T:&4@8V]M2=S($)O87)D(&]F($1I
M'!I'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^4V5P(#,P+`T*"0DR,#$S/'-P86X^
M/"]S3X-"CPO:'1M;#X-"@T*+2TM+2TM/5].97AT4&%R=%\R.6$R9CDV95\T
M,&9C7S1C,F%?8C$Y95\U-3(X,S=B,#$T93(-"D-O;G1E;G0M3&]C871I;VXZ
M(&9I;&4Z+R\O0SHO,CEA,F8Y-F5?-#!F8U\T8S)A7V(Q.65?-34R.#,W8C`Q
M-&4R+U=O7!E.B!T
M97AT+VAT;6P[(&-H87)S970](G5S+6%S8VEI(@T*#0H\:'1M;#X-"B`@/&AE
M860^#0H@("`@/$U%5$$@:'1T'0O:'1M;#L@8VAA7!E
M/3-$=&5X="]J879A'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S3X-"CPO:'1M
M;#X-"@T*+2TM+2TM/5].97AT4&%R=%\R.6$R9CDV95\T,&9C7S1C,F%?8C$Y
M95\U-3(X,S=B,#$T93(-"D-O;G1E;G0M3&]C871I;VXZ(&9I;&4Z+R\O0SHO
M,CEA,F8Y-F5?-#!F8U\T8S)A7V(Q.65?-34R.#,W8C`Q-&4R+U=O7!E.B!T97AT+VAT;6P[(&-H
M87)S970](G5S+6%S8VEI(@T*#0H\:'1M;#X-"B`@/&AE860^#0H@("`@/$U%
M5$$@:'1T'0O
M:'1M;#L@8VAA7!E/3-$=&5X="]J879A
M&-E'0^2G5N(#$S+`T*"0DR,#$R
M/'-P86X^/"]S'0^
M36%R(#$S+`T*"0DR,#$R/'-P86X^/"]S'0^1&5C(#$T+`T*"0DR,#$Q/'-P86X^/"]S'0^4V5P(#(P+`T*"0DR,#$Q
M/'-P86X^/"]S'0^
M2G5N(#$U+`T*"0DR,#$Q/'-P86X^/"]S'0^36%R(#$T+`T*"0DR,#$Q/'-P86X^/"]S'0^1&5C(#$U+`T*"0DR,#$P
M/'-P86X^/"]S'0^
M4V5P(#(Q+`T*"0DR,#$P/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S6UE;G0@
M1&%T93PO=&0^#0H@("`@("`@(#QT9"!C;&%S'0^4V5P(#$S+`T*
M"0DR,#$R/'-P86X^/"]S'0^2G5N(#$T+`T*"0DR,#$R/'-P86X^/"]S'0^36%R(#@L#0H)"3(P,3(\'0^2G5N(#DL#0H)"3(P,3$\'0O:F%V87-C3X-"B`@("`\=&%B;&4@8VQA"!E9F9E8W1S(&]F("0Q,C"!E9F9E8W1S(&]F("0Q,"P@)#(L(&%N9"`D*#$W,RD\+W1D/@T*("`@
M("`@("`\=&0@8VQAF5D($=A:6YS("A,;W-S97,I(&]N($EN=F5S=&UE;G1S/"]S=')O;FF5D(&=A:6YS("AL;W-S97,I(&]N(&EN=F5S=&UE;G1S/"]T9#X-"B`@
M("`@("`@/'1D(&-L87-S/3-$;G5M/B@S.3`I/'-P86X^/"]S"!E9F9E8W1S
M(&]F("0H,38U*2P@)#(P-2!A;F0@)"@Q,#,I/"]T9#X-"B`@("`@("`@/'1D
M(&-L87-S/3-$;G5M/B@S,#8I/'-P86X^/"]S3X-"CPO:'1M;#X-"@T*+2TM
M+2TM/5].97AT4&%R=%\R.6$R9CDV95\T,&9C7S1C,F%?8C$Y95\U-3(X,S=B
M,#$T93(-"D-O;G1E;G0M3&]C871I;VXZ(&9I;&4Z+R\O0SHO,CEA,F8Y-F5?
M-#!F8U\T8S)A7V(Q.65?-34R.#,W8C`Q-&4R+U=O7!E.B!T97AT+VAT;6P[(&-H87)S970](G5S
M+6%S8VEI(@T*#0H\:'1M;#X-"B`@/&AE860^#0H@("`@/$U%5$$@:'1T'0O:'1M;#L@8VAA
M7!E/3-$=&5X="]J879A'0^
M/'-P86X^/"]S'0^
M/'-P86X^/"]S'0^
M/'-P86X^/"]SF5D(&=A:6YS("AL;W-S97,I+"!T87@@969F96-T"!E9F9E8W1S/"]T9#X-"B`@("`@("`@/'1D(&-L87-S/3-$;G5M/B0@*#$V
M-2D\'0O:F%V87-C3X-"B`@("`\=&%B;&4@8VQA3X-"CPO:'1M;#X-"@T*+2TM+2TM/5].
M97AT4&%R=%\R.6$R9CDV95\T,&9C7S1C,F%?8C$Y95\U-3(X,S=B,#$T93(-
M"D-O;G1E;G0M3&]C871I;VXZ(&9I;&4Z+R\O0SHO,CEA,F8Y-F5?-#!F8U\T
M8S)A7V(Q.65?-34R.#,W8C`Q-&4R+U=O7!E.B!T97AT+VAT;6P[(&-H87)S970](G5S+6%S8VEI
M(@T*#0H\:'1M;#X-"B`@/&AE860^#0H@("`@/$U%5$$@:'1T'0O:'1M;#L@8VAA7!E/3-$=&5X="]J879A65E(%-T;V-K(&%N9"!3879I;F=S(%!L86YS("T@061D:71I;VYA;"!);F9O
M&-E
MF5D(&9O'0^/'-P86X^/"]S
M'0^/'-P86X^/"]S
M'0^/'-P86X^/"]S&5R8VES92!P'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^
M/'-P86X^/"]S'0^
M/'-P86X^/"]S2!C;VYT2!C;VYT65E('-A=FEN9W,@'0^
M/'-P86X^/"]S'0^
M/'-P86X^/"]S'0^
M/'-P86X^/"]S2!P87)T:6-I2!C;VYT65A'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'!E8W1E9"!T;R!B92!R96-O9VYI>F5D(&]V97(@82!W96EG:'1E9"!A=F5R
M86=E('!E65A'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]SF5D(&-O;7!E;G-A=&EO;B!C;W-T'0^,B!Y
M96%R'0^
M/'-P86X^/"]S'0^
M/'-P86X^/"]S'0^
M/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S65E
M'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^
M/"]S'0^/'-P86X^
M/"]S'0^/'-P86X^
M/"]S&5R8VES92!P'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^
M/'-P86X^/"]S'0^
M/'-P86X^/"]S'0^
M/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S&5C=71I=F4@3V9F:6-E'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S2!A9G1E'0^/'-P86X^/"]S
M'0^/'-P86X^/"]S
M'0^/'-P86X^/"]S
M'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0O:F%V87-C
M3X-"B`@("`\=&%B;&4@
M8VQA65E(%-E'0^
M/'-P86X^/"]S'0^
M/'-P86X^/"]S'0^
M/'-P86X^/"]S'1087)T7S(Y83)F.39E7S0P9F-?-&,R85]B,3EE7S4U,C@S-V(P,31E,@T*
M0V]N=&5N="U,;V-A=&EO;CH@9FEL93HO+R]#.B\R.6$R9CDV95\T,&9C7S1C
M,F%?8C$Y95\U-3(X,S=B,#$T93(O5V]R:W-H965T'0O:'1M;#L@8VAA7!E(&-O;G1E;G0],T0G=&5X="]H=&UL.R!C:&%R2!3:&%R92!B87-E9"!087EM96YT
M($%W87)D+"!&86ER(%9A;'5E($%S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S2!3:&%R92!B87-E9"!087EM96YT($%W87)D
M+"!&86ER(%9A;'5E($%S'0^/'-P86X^
M/"]S'0^/'-P86X^
M/"]S'0^/'-P86X^
M/"]S'0^/'-P86X^
M/"]S2!3
M:&%R92!B87-E9"!087EM96YT($%W87)D+"!&86ER(%9A;'5E($%S'0O:'1M;#L@8VAA7!E(&-O;G1E;G0],T0G=&5X="]H=&UL.R!C:&%R
M2`H1&5T86EL*2`H55-$("0I/&)R/DEN($UI
M;&QI;VYS+"!E>&-E65A'0^/'-P86X^/"]S65A'0^/'-P86X^
M/"]S'0^/'-P86X^
M/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^
M/'-P86X^/"]S'0^
M/'-P86X^/"]S'0^
M/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S
M'0^/'-P86X^/"]S
M'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S3X-"CPO:'1M;#X-"@T*+2TM+2TM/5].97AT4&%R=%\R
M.6$R9CDV95\T,&9C7S1C,F%?8C$Y95\U-3(X,S=B,#$T93(-"D-O;G1E;G0M
M3&]C871I;VXZ(&9I;&4Z+R\O0SHO,CEA,F8Y-F5?-#!F8U\T8S)A7V(Q.65?
M-34R.#,W8C`Q-&4R+U=O7!E.B!T97AT+VAT;6P[(&-H87)S970](G5S+6%S8VEI(@T*#0H\:'1M
M;#X-"B`@/&AE860^#0H@("`@/$U%5$$@:'1T'0O:'1M;#L@8VAA7!E/3-$=&5X="]J879A2`H1&5T86EL*2`H55-$
M("0I/&)R/DEN($UI;&QI;VYS+"!U;FQE6UE;G0@07=A'0O:F%V87-C3X-"B`@("`\=&%B;&4@8VQA&5R8VES960\+W1D/@T*
M("`@("`@("`\=&0@8VQA&5R
M8VES86)L92P@96YD(&]F('EE87(\+W1D/@T*("`@("`@("`\=&0@8VQA65A'0^/'-P86X^/"]S
M65A'0^
M,B!Y96%R7,\65A'0^.2!M;VYT:',@
M,CD@9&%Y'0O:F%V87-C
M3X-"B`@("`\=&%B;&4@
M8VQA6UE;G0@07=A&5R8VES97,\+W1D/@T*("`@("`@("`\=&0@8VQA3X-"CPO:'1M;#X-"@T*+2TM+2TM/5].97AT
M4&%R=%\R.6$R9CDV95\T,&9C7S1C,F%?8C$Y95\U-3(X,S=B,#$T93(-"D-O
M;G1E;G0M3&]C871I;VXZ(&9I;&4Z+R\O0SHO,CEA,F8Y-F5?-#!F8U\T8S)A
M7V(Q.65?-34R.#,W8C`Q-&4R+U=O7!E.B!T97AT+VAT;6P[(&-H87)S970](G5S+6%S8VEI(@T*
M#0H\:'1M;#X-"B`@/&AE860^#0H@("`@/$U%5$$@:'1T'0O:'1M;#L@8VAA7!E/3-$=&5X="]J879A65E
M(%!U'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'1087)T
M7S(Y83)F.39E7S0P9F-?-&,R85]B,3EE7S4U,C@S-V(P,31E,@T*0V]N=&5N
M="U,;V-A=&EO;CH@9FEL93HO+R]#.B\R.6$R9CDV95\T,&9C7S1C,F%?8C$Y
M95\U-3(X,S=B,#$T93(O5V]R:W-H965T'0O:'1M;#L@8VAA2!O=&AE'0^3F\@'0O:F%V87-C3X-"B`@("`\=&%B;&4@8VQA'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S
M'0^/'-P86X^/"]S
M'0^/'-P86X^/"]S
M'0^/'-P86X^/"]S
M'0^/'-P86X^/"]S
M'0^/'-P86X^/"]S
M'0^/'-P86X^/"]S
M'0^/'-P86X^/"]S
M'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S
M'0^/'-P86X^/"]S
M'0^/'-P86X^/"]S
M'0^/'-P86X^/"]S
M'0^/'-P86X^/"]S
M'0^/'-P86X^/"]S
M'0^/'-P86X^/"]S
M'0^/'-P86X^/"]S
M'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S3X-"CPO:'1M;#X-"@T*+2TM+2TM/5].97AT4&%R=%\R.6$R
M9CDV95\T,&9C7S1C,F%?8C$Y95\U-3(X,S=B,#$T93(-"D-O;G1E;G0M3&]C
M871I;VXZ(&9I;&4Z+R\O0SHO,CEA,F8Y-F5?-#!F8U\T8S)A7V(Q.65?-34R
M.#,W8C`Q-&4R+U=O7!E.B!T97AT+VAT;6P[(&-H87)S970](G5S+6%S8VEI(@T*#0H\:'1M;#X-
M"B`@/&AE860^#0H@("`@/$U%5$$@:'1T'0O:'1M;#L@8VAA'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^
M/"]S'0^
M/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S2!E>&-L=61E'10
M87)T7S(Y83)F.39E7S0P9F-?-&,R85]B,3EE7S4U,C@S-V(P,31E,@T*0V]N
M=&5N="U,;V-A=&EO;CH@9FEL93HO+R]#.B\R.6$R9CDV95\T,&9C7S1C,F%?
M8C$Y95\U-3(X,S=B,#$T93(O5V]R:W-H965T'0O:'1M;#L@8VAA7!E(&-O;G1E;G0],T0G=&5X="]H=&UL.R!C:&%R'0^/'-P86X^/"]S
M'0^/'-P86X^/"]S
M'0^/'-P86X^/"]S
M'0^/'-P86X^/"]S
M'0^/'-P86X^/"]S
M'0^/'-P86X^/"]S
M'0^/'-P86X^/"]S
M'0^/'-P86X^/"]S
MF%T:6]N'1087)T7S(Y83)F.39E7S0P9F-?
M-&,R85]B,3EE7S4U,C@S-V(P,31E,@T*0V]N=&5N="U,;V-A=&EO;CH@9FEL
M93HO+R]#.B\R.6$R9CDV95\T,&9C7S1C,F%?8C$Y95\U-3(X,S=B,#$T93(O
M5V]R:W-H965T'0O
M:'1M;#L@8VAA7!E(&-O;G1E;G0]
M,T0G=&5X="]H=&UL.R!C:&%R'1E7-T96T\+W1D/@T*("`@("`@("`\=&0@8VQA'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'1E'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P
M86X^/"]S'0^/'-P
M86X^/"]S'0^/'-P
M86X^/"]S'0^/'-P
M86X^/"]S'0^/'-P
M86X^/"]S'0^/'-P
M86X^/"]S'0^/'-P
M86X^/"]S'0^/'-P
M86X^/"]S'0^/'-P
M86X^/"]S'0^/'-P
M86X^/"]S'0^/'-P
M86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S
M'0^/'-P86X^/"]S
M'0^/'-P86X^/"]S
M'0^/'-P86X^/"]S
M'0^/'-P86X^/"]S
M'0^/'-P86X^/"]S
M'0^/'-P86X^/"]S
M'0^/'-P86X^/"]S
M'0^/'-P86X^/"]S
M'0^/'-P86X^/"]S
M'0^/'-P86X^/"]S
M'1E'0^/'-P86X^/"]S
M'0^/'-P86X^/"]S
M'0^/'-P86X^/"]S
M'0^/'-P86X^/"]S
M'0^/'-P86X^/"]S
M'0^/'-P86X^/"]S
M'0^/'-P86X^/"]S
M'0^/'-P86X^/"]S
M'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'1E'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0O:F%V87-C3X-"B`@("`\=&%B;&4@8VQA2!,;V-A=&EO;B!O9B!#
M;VYT2`H1&5T86EL*2`H55-$("0I
M/&)R/DEN($UI;&QI;VYS+"!U;FQE'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S&5M8F]U2!;3&EN92!)=&5M2!;3&EN92!)=&5M
M'1087)T7S(Y83)F.39E7S0P9F-?-&,R85]B,3EE7S4U
M,C@S-V(P,31E,@T*0V]N=&5N="U,;V-A=&EO;CH@9FEL93HO+R]#.B\R.6$R
M9CDV95\T,&9C7S1C,F%?8C$Y95\U-3(X,S=B,#$T93(O5V]R:W-H965T'0O:'1M;#L@8VAA'0^3VX@2G5L>2`Q."P@,C`Q,BP@=V4@86-Q=6ER960@66%M;65R
M+"!);F,N("CB@)Q986UM97+B@)TI+"!A(&QE861I;F3X-"CPO:'1M;#X-"@T*+2TM+2TM/5].97AT4&%R=%\R.6$R9CDV95\T
M,&9C7S1C,F%?8C$Y95\U-3(X,S=B,#$T93(-"D-O;G1E;G0M3&]C871I;VXZ
M(&9I;&4Z+R\O0SHO,CEA,F8Y-F5?-#!F8U\T8S)A7V(Q.65?-34R.#,W8C`Q
M-&4R+U=O7!E.B!T
M97AT+VAT;6P[(&-H87)S970](G5S+6%S8VEI(@T*#0H\:'1M;#X-"B`@/&AE
M860^#0H@("`@/$U%5$$@:'1T'0O:'1M;#L@8VAA7!E
M/3-$=&5X="]J879A2!);F9O&-E'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S"!R971U"!R871E+CPO=&0^#0H@("`@("`\+W1R/@T*("`@("`@/'1R
M(&-L87-S/3-$:6YN97)&;V]T;F]T93X-"B`@("`@("`@/'1D('9A;&EG;CTS
M1'1O3X-"CPO:'1M;#X-
M"@T*+2TM+2TM/5].97AT4&%R=%\R.6$R9CDV95\T,&9C7S1C,F%?8C$Y95\U
M-3(X,S=B,#$T93(-"D-O;G1E;G0M3&]C871I;VXZ(&9I;&4Z+R\O0SHO,CEA
M,F8Y-F5?-#!F8U\T8S)A7V(Q.65?-34R.#,W8C`Q-&4R+U=O7!E.B!T97AT+VAT;6P[(&-H87)S
M970](G5S+6%S8VEI(@T*#0H\:'1M;#X-"B`@/&AE860^#0H@("`@/$U%5$$@
M:'1T'0O:'1M
M;#L@8VAA7!E/3-$=&5X="]J879A2!);F9O2!&:6YA;F-I86P@26YF;W)M871I;VX@6TQI;F4@271E
M;7-=/"]S=')O;F'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S'0^/'-P86X^/"]S65A"!Y96%R
M"!R
M871E/"]T9#X-"B`@("`@("`@/'1D(&-L87-S/3-$=&5X=#X\7!E.B!T97AT+VAT;6P[(&-H87)S970](G5S+6%S8VEI
M(@T*#0H\>&UL('AM;&YS.F\],T0B=7)N.G-C:&5M87,M;6EC'1087)T7S(Y83)F.39E7S0P9F-?-&,R85]B,3EE7S4U,C@S-V(P,31E,BTM
"#0H`
`
end




XML
56
R43.htm
IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT


/* Do Not Remove This Comment */
v2.4.0.6










XML
57
R29.htm
IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT


/* Do Not Remove This Comment */
v2.4.0.6






XML
58
R28.htm
IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT


/* Do Not Remove This Comment */
v2.4.0.6






XML
59
R100.htm
IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT


/* Do Not Remove This Comment */
v2.4.0.6























XML
60
R56.htm
IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT


/* Do Not Remove This Comment */
v2.4.0.6







XML
61
R44.htm
IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT


/* Do Not Remove This Comment */
v2.4.0.6







XML
62
R30.htm
IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT


/* Do Not Remove This Comment */
v2.4.0.6


























XML
63
R31.htm
IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT


/* Do Not Remove This Comment */
v2.4.0.6






XML
64
R8.htm
IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT


/* Do Not Remove This Comment */
v2.4.0.6






XML
65
R32.htm
IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT


/* Do Not Remove This Comment */
v2.4.0.6







XML
66
R83.htm
IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT


/* Do Not Remove This Comment */
v2.4.0.6













XML
67
R114.htm
IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT


/* Do Not Remove This Comment */
v2.4.0.6









XML
68
R40.htm
IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT


/* Do Not Remove This Comment */
v2.4.0.6






XML
69
R53.htm
IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT


/* Do Not Remove This Comment */
v2.4.0.6









XML
70
R72.htm
IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT


/* Do Not Remove This Comment */
v2.4.0.6










XML
71
R2.htm
IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT


/* Do Not Remove This Comment */
v2.4.0.6

























XML
72
R45.htm
IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT


/* Do Not Remove This Comment */
v2.4.0.6






XML
73
R96.htm
IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT


/* Do Not Remove This Comment */
v2.4.0.6







XML
74
R113.htm
IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT


/* Do Not Remove This Comment */
v2.4.0.6























XML
75
R6.htm
IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT


/* Do Not Remove This Comment */
v2.4.0.6


















XML
76
R94.htm
IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT


/* Do Not Remove This Comment */
v2.4.0.6







XML
77
R59.htm
IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT


/* Do Not Remove This Comment */
v2.4.0.6













XML
78
R99.htm
IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT


/* Do Not Remove This Comment */
v2.4.0.6













XML
79
R35.htm
IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT


/* Do Not Remove This Comment */
v2.4.0.6







XML
80
R65.htm
IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT


/* Do Not Remove This Comment */
v2.4.0.6









XML
81
R22.htm
IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT


/* Do Not Remove This Comment */
v2.4.0.6






XML
82
R36.htm
IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT


/* Do Not Remove This Comment */
v2.4.0.6








XML
83
R98.htm
IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT


/* Do Not Remove This Comment */
v2.4.0.6













XML
84
R123.htm
IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT


/* Do Not Remove This Comment */
v2.4.0.6











XML
85
R24.htm
IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT


/* Do Not Remove This Comment */
v2.4.0.6






XML
86
R68.htm
IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT


/* Do Not Remove This Comment */
v2.4.0.6







XML
87
R108.htm
IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT


/* Do Not Remove This Comment */
v2.4.0.6



























XML
88
Show.js
IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT

/**
 * Rivet Software Inc.
 *
 * @copyright Copyright (c) 2006-2011 Rivet Software, Inc. All rights reserved.
 * Version 2.1.0.1
 *
 */

var moreDialog = null;
var Show = {
    Default:'raw',

    more:function( obj ){
        var bClosed = false;
        if( moreDialog != null )
        {
			try
			{
				bClosed = moreDialog.closed;
			}
			catch(e)
			{
				//Per article at http://support.microsoft.com/kb/244375 there is a problem with the WebBrowser control
				// that somtimes causes it to throw when checking the closed property on a child window that has been
				//closed.  So if the exception occurs we assume the window is closed and move on from there.
				bClosed = true;
			}

			if( !bClosed ){
				moreDialog.close();
			}
        }

        obj = obj.parentNode.getElementsByTagName( 'pre' )[0];
		var hasHtmlTag = false;
		var objHtml = '';
		var raw = '';

		//Check for raw HTML
		var nodes = obj.getElementsByTagName( '*' );
		if( nodes.length ){
			objHtml = obj.innerHTML;
		}else{
			if( obj.innerText ){
				raw = obj.innerText;
			}else{
				raw = obj.textContent;
			}

			var matches = raw.match( /]*>/g );
			if( matches && matches.length ){
				objHtml = raw;

				//If there is an html node it will be 1st or 2nd,
				//   but we can check a little further.
				var n = Math.min( 5, matches.length );
				for( var i = 0; i < n; i++ ){
					var el = matches[ i ].toString().toLowerCase();
					if( el.indexOf( '= 0 ){
						hasHtmlTag = true;
						break;
					}
				}
			}
		}

        if( objHtml.length ){
			var html = '';

			if( hasHtmlTag ){
				html = objHtml;
			}else{
				html = ''+
					"\n"+''+
					"\n"+'    Report Preview Details'+
					"\n"+'    '+
					"\n"+'    body {'+
					"\n"+'    }'+
					"\n"+'    table {'+
					"\n"+'    }'+
					"\n"+'    '+
					"\n"+''+
					"\n"+''+
						objHtml +
					"\n"+''+
					"\n"+'';
			}

			moreDialog = window.open("","More","width=700,height=650,status=0,resizable=yes,menubar=no,toolbar=no,scrollbars=yes");
			moreDialog.document.write( html );
			moreDialog.document.close();

			if( !hasHtmlTag ){
				moreDialog.document.body.style.margin = '0.5em';
			}
        }
        else
        {
			//default view logic
			var lines = raw.split( "\n" );
			var longest = 0;

			if( lines.length > 0 ){
				for( var p = 0; p < lines.length; p++ ){
					longest = Math.max( longest, lines[p].length );
				}
			}

			//Decide on the default view
			this.Default = longest < 120 ? 'raw' : 'formatted';

			//Build formatted view
			var text = raw.split( "\n\n" ) >= raw.split( "\r\n\r\n" ) ? raw.split( "\n\n" ) : raw.split( "\r\n\r\n" ) ;
			var formatted = '';

			if( text.length > 0 ){
				if( text.length == 1 ){
					text = raw.split( "\n" ) >= raw.split( "\r\n" ) ? raw.split( "\n" ) : raw.split( "\r\n" ) ;
					formatted = ""+ text.join( "\n" ) +"";
				}else{
					for( var p = 0; p < text.length; p++ ){
						formatted += "" + text[p] + "\n";
					}
				}
			}else{
				formatted = '' + raw + '';
			}

			html = ''+
				"\n"+''+
				"\n"+'    Report Preview Details'+
				"\n"+'    '+
				"\n"+'    body {'+
				"\n"+'       background-color: #f0f9ee;'+
				"\n"+'       font-family: Arial, san-serif; font-size: 0.8em;'+
				"\n"+'    }'+
				"\n"+'    table {'+
				"\n"+'       font-size: 1em;'+
				"\n"+'    }'+
				"\n"+'    '+
				"\n"+''+
				"\n"+''+
				"\n"+'    '+
				"\n"+''+
				"\n"+'';

			moreDialog = window.open("","More","width=700,height=650,status=0,resizable=yes,menubar=no,toolbar=no,scrollbars=yes");
			moreDialog.document.write(html);
			moreDialog.document.close();

			this.toggle( moreDialog );
        }

		moreDialog.document.title = 'Report Preview Details';
    },

    toggle:function( win, domLink ){
        var domId = this.Default;

        var doc = win.document;
        var domEl = doc.getElementById( domId );
        domEl.style.display = 'block';

        this.Default = domId == 'raw' ? 'formatted' : 'raw';

        if( domLink ){
            domLink.innerHTML = this.Default == 'raw' ? 'with Text Wrapped' : 'as Filed';
        }

        var domElOpposite = doc.getElementById( this.Default );
        domElOpposite.style.display = 'none';
    },

	LastAR : null,
	showAR : function ( link, id, win ){
		if( Show.LastAR ){
			Show.hideAR();
		}

		var ref = link;
		do {
			ref = ref.nextSibling;
		} while (ref && ref.nodeName != 'TABLE');

		if (!ref || ref.nodeName != 'TABLE') {
			var tmp = win ?
				win.document.getElementById(id) :
				document.getElementById(id);

			if( tmp ){
				ref = tmp.cloneNode(true);
				ref.id = '';
				link.parentNode.appendChild(ref);
			}
		}

		if( ref ){
			ref.style.display = 'block';
			Show.LastAR = ref;
		}
	},

	toggleNext : function( link ){
		var ref = link;

		do{
			ref = ref.nextSibling;
		}while( ref.nodeName != 'DIV' );

		if( ref.style &&
			ref.style.display &&
			ref.style.display == 'none' ){
			ref.style.display = 'block';

			if( link.textContent ){
				link.textContent = link.textContent.replace( '+', '-' );
			}else{
				link.innerText = link.innerText.replace( '+', '-' );
			}
		}else{
			ref.style.display = 'none';

			if( link.textContent ){
				link.textContent = link.textContent.replace( '-', '+' );
			}else{
				link.innerText = link.innerText.replace( '-', '+' );
			}
		}
	},

	hideAR : function(){
		Show.LastAR.style.display = 'none';
	}
}



XML
89
R7.htm
IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT


/* Do Not Remove This Comment */
v2.4.0.6






XML
90
R3.htm
IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT


/* Do Not Remove This Comment */
v2.4.0.6








































XML
91
R17.htm
IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT


/* Do Not Remove This Comment */
v2.4.0.6






XML
92
R103.htm
IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT


/* Do Not Remove This Comment */
v2.4.0.6








XML
93
R93.htm
IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT


/* Do Not Remove This Comment */
v2.4.0.6








XML
94
R91.htm
IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT


/* Do Not Remove This Comment */
v2.4.0.6















XML
95
R122.htm
IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT


/* Do Not Remove This Comment */
v2.4.0.6










XML
96
R119.htm
IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT


/* Do Not Remove This Comment */
v2.4.0.6









XML
97
R1.htm
IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT


/* Do Not Remove This Comment */
v2.4.0.6























XML
98
R18.htm
IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT


/* Do Not Remove This Comment */
v2.4.0.6






XML
99
R80.htm
IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT


/* Do Not Remove This Comment */
v2.4.0.6







XML
100
R90.htm
IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT


/* Do Not Remove This Comment */
v2.4.0.6

























XML
101
R4.htm
IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT


/* Do Not Remove This Comment */
v2.4.0.6











XML
102
R12.htm
IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT


/* Do Not Remove This Comment */
v2.4.0.6






XML
103
R11.htm
IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT


/* Do Not Remove This Comment */
v2.4.0.6






XML
104
R23.htm
IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT


/* Do Not Remove This Comment */
v2.4.0.6






XML
105
R19.htm
IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT


/* Do Not Remove This Comment */
v2.4.0.6






XML
106
R84.htm
IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT


/* Do Not Remove This Comment */
v2.4.0.6




















XML
107
R15.htm
IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT


/* Do Not Remove This Comment */
v2.4.0.6






XML
108
R60.htm
IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT


/* Do Not Remove This Comment */
v2.4.0.6












XML
109
R110.htm
IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT


/* Do Not Remove This Comment */
v2.4.0.6









XML
110
R13.htm
IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT


/* Do Not Remove This Comment */
v2.4.0.6






XML
111
R14.htm
IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT


/* Do Not Remove This Comment */
v2.4.0.6






XML
112
R16.htm
IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT


/* Do Not Remove This Comment */
v2.4.0.6






XML
113
R64.htm
IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT


/* Do Not Remove This Comment */
v2.4.0.6









XML
114
R120.htm
IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT


/* Do Not Remove This Comment */
v2.4.0.6







XML
115
R85.htm
IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT


/* Do Not Remove This Comment */
v2.4.0.6












XML
116
R66.htm
IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT


/* Do Not Remove This Comment */
v2.4.0.6










XML
117
R102.htm
IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT


/* Do Not Remove This Comment */
v2.4.0.6









XML
118
R63.htm
IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT


/* Do Not Remove This Comment */
v2.4.0.6



















XML
119
R92.htm
IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT


/* Do Not Remove This Comment */
v2.4.0.6












XML
120
R34.htm
IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT


/* Do Not Remove This Comment */
v2.4.0.6








XML
121
R51.htm
IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT


/* Do Not Remove This Comment */
v2.4.0.6






XML
122
R21.htm
IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT


/* Do Not Remove This Comment */
v2.4.0.6






XML
123
R115.htm
IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT


/* Do Not Remove This Comment */
v2.4.0.6








XML
124
R26.htm
IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT


/* Do Not Remove This Comment */
v2.4.0.6






XML
125
R95.htm
IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT


/* Do Not Remove This Comment */
v2.4.0.6







ZIP
126
0001193125-12-316848-xbrl.zip
IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT

begin 644 0001193125-12-316848-xbrl.zip
M4$L#!!0````(`*.!^D`+X'NM4N@"`,\9-P`1`!P`;7-F="TR,#$R,#8S,"YX
M;6Q55`D``]&D$5#1I!%0=7@+``$$)0X```0Y`0``Y%U;D
M:F$3%P*$:WJV>)UTI7OLLGMVIO+BHB789E8F'9)RV_OKQ)9+&]^'@W`'^]->7Q^GH69555N0?3O"I#*JZC2?I-,B5Q].7E5U,OKKS__Z+S_]&T*C./K%OQI=Y-,L5Z./Z+.JR^QE
M],=83569UO!1KN\=JU%4C&>/*J__,KI-*S49%?GHC^#JTXBJHF]VF)BN:!I^/B\6R$T.*/_6T^T//1B)]B<A*5:I\
M5I/3MR>]W);3$=">5Q].EG#KCT^+\OX,GDO/LC?:3N97GH\!7EV^OM_17%VI
M\>E]\7SV]N79?/@84;RX;:*R]EO@BY;+L_Q9577['?/OVFZJ"D:PZ`(SOV)Q
MPV-U5Z]JD[O[1>OG3:,0D@G'_7*^_]>OW!RO5?:7,UEE*>-=^^7UIE;1?"
M8_'9'Y\_78\?U&.*WD46A'PT:L1\>EXUWUVINU'SQ/.TA*F>JG[C;.YX*-7=
MAQ,M,V@A&:JY?Z2@]>%=.;R]ASB8?@'R;80?\%W(F;ZR_1
MC7,#L.`_BN%'%Q,/DQ>7$N;!;]1QN8#?*&B9$]!MX^PQG8*P??PU.1EEDP\G
MV>3&E9YP;KA@7A#3!&&6Q(B%6*(@P3Z2`M.(<S/)L/[).Z
M3Z>?T[I6YSON@&Y0([8LZ%@SV)7Y@47+CKS&`F//V;P`YO>&*TX4F0
M;I[")$@"&H9(ND(@QGB`9!SXR'?")_$EY$MOPA..8"LU3XOG`
M$T\X\AS&4,1"7_@)88$,-_"$M^7I3![,*#&E5^>/_G655INWSY:P\"*
MO01UK>`)Q;@QV[\4Q>1K-IWZC]H";LL?K#H*/S*I90%8<265RZP@;XT41[C$
MYUZ`(LIAD048(\]W'!3%3D@#'H52QC=:*][0)5+>K-_-;]?1R9'7!W%6R@.&RSOZ1
MWD[5QQS,VGT&/_E5I!WY3.IM-
MX4)51>I.P6>3*_6L\IDZ(E9=&ZN$D-U)WJQ,-PR+Z?0Z8YY#8.&?G_S2%AKO?]J]O5''HV#EUV:`8'-CK@#5+)
MV(OKLAE@08!8%/$1,0>,88X@O1N'_L!EM-T'V%76)GEPAW
M0'('2\]@ZGP+M;E#A`ZGC61-S^`ZBJ7KQ5BBV'4=Q)B,D0P\#\6!$('PG8@1
M=^Z*6H-K=]O@>J*R\WEH=#F[G6;C9%JDVQMI0ILQ?0/GK$%+X17X@;T&SVU2>!0'XO\NB[&?[]^
M2$M57\5./B/L_^H29?TI=`Y>HNVU8)]$(9@'P3F#W$
MG5@`2AHBC[DPH4[DN=Q)/-_%)LIU=XJN0[4`6)M0"-W]?*+_%X-">$ZGC637
M85J6K\#)W]+IMN%B+\PT3J(@"%R41)AIT15(:2@=).8N[2`GP`3S88<1;[?L`D`G4%1IP2B@(&
MQDCBF/J4.0F3>!ZR6\6R]LJW0L@J9MC7&/M>QP/P9S["'')1@Q7YLA
MPCAB+C@^$NQ0'$OMJ/`N-Q"\HG64BR'O5X9[0>HEM;0)&ZQBRS@VW:]-4NN/
MQ[/'V1094]@QLV+A[5IZ*JDJ)4V?U;FFO\^J5,\VHZ
MEXC)_\RJ6M?^?U7UQ1TH_@'HP5X8$AH&2(829IR!:,M$:@&@8`X`?RGWI15,O]Z6AJ=5]X?S0[DLOE+WWVO68IPJ>0"5=P=+-X0%9HY;A-]#5(+Y!6F55\S>'6I@!
M"R("3A7RA`Z),8E1X(7XHF2"JJ,HS1PS:SXH8U]$?
M'Z/X&=="+4=JY-PUDC057A$GL,8:DBT$)2>G-TPFP5D7`P]CEF&@!(;8^
MUILG5=XL,KJ4GC(K%QTHEWR['OE(_+U'!UM!&Z8FM.\2+NLV
MND3GQW]P"=>`NJ<2KMM`M2;5$.;G;=1>36_ORQUCD8OFN#UVR67Z:O^R/^:EI//Z4OV.'N,'Y^FQ:M2U[/;
M:EQF3TV*4N\;WI5!4!.ZPU6N-0H:6I3[D0AIB#`+A.YDB\"62((D<5VP+#%S
MJ30#Y">X;T$+$H\`OP[@[`]$WZ]W1D(W-#,2P6>]C
M(QFBBOV4%DA'U_L_.<5R@U'M2S&U4VQT$P]+.J;D>TE
M-8![I*,3/V8)IQ@%,HI!,(0`$^R!IQEQ0K6G21+_A@`1';&(Z7ZT9P/LM29P
M1.LLGQ6S2B?\TZE.]^N"R.5;5O*3JJHO#VG^Y:N:/JO/5#]4[>`*Q@P2%$
MC0,44NV8A2%#X';[R`L%Y@EW0NSX-[C#`Z4M><>!X*^G\+.I[EEI"B*/3V7Q
MW*S+ZI<2GC@F!Y@0?B4U@90AO><>^5I(
M0DIE0J7+&`YOK/'KNT)=T0P]T:R2#>)G1!1PC%8>S]`/D3Q*&8$+#\&:\B#>0W#GG4Q]U;W
M!;1*0]-$L+3+^FW?]>$\`&+=^4R9-$!;AK^5B[>X?=L\3"]Q%P&+B`R00R6L
M[`3P^L3W=`U$\(`'01R+N;A3>\J?&Y6=OHA:YOI-X1]ZFK$]TT*)8;#,D6_0
MTV9NYG!JVQKI=&EK$\`&Q$N+X*!&"EO5MMX7N-%*K_84[AA\5G\8M.EJGF*8>;7*N.PM1TK_O"V7-Z?(\SS*SAA"L>)TQ=+X_520K+':J?,`R;SK(-_?U^J^[1NFEE510Z8
M>['K/&%(RW`$F-N@LJ9G6NNVN7C/X!'1?[05:,&GG_+@P;K/KJK88N[_^O$[(/U9_5"46I\"2:\KO4S,O;`=`(SE
MHO<1O&N28TC"6(]*7"3>5D6^??Q]?:2#ND56I)QR:NYVLH)8:Y]\:U.X4HTJ
M.*H$FU7O4]=L0:-%BM[_S8G/K>^&6'FV"K
M'^,2(8P,:G]$7;'=;WFZ"`MTYGV@($]W!2\Q%A#KUK\7LZDNO*?C>K[_%%QDN&2'AL8^)J/OQM$.
MJ^%*TVCLAF_KQ.]*MV0^6?R9]G;*@7)-?0-I>P&@30'O'_I:0OE]Q7XJTOR0
M49+]_/&6$PO6A[T*2IOEO"[*U]^+\N\?\\NR&*M!6C!"+W9EX/G@/CO@2,>@
M6*6OFS$6U0&CU,RL[`'JULIDT:,.JZD)
MW@"N5E-9J9V@N;DZG/JPKA)F;D;=#];UQ,.0RS"T)[HN\H,E[8[ED[H+%M>3YK;FNW
MT^+WB,>^R:'?1[*E;#NA_5_K5G&KB/ZLRO5?QBRK'V=MI
M\]]/DK'7,,`.`3:0B"1'3#8=PBQ$41)$D[ZWFEQBIK-FD=0X;4WIW(]&,L#F@;!DM`?M!.
M+KO>H*9=6QYRWRQOLT?B6SBJ#Y0[:/7.:LBIX]I]SSZPK$&AKHX<4X^BO3^I
MU59L0K*>IJ[JSZI^*";#&OHX=D081PY*?`;.3"3T#GVO>6E*%!%8EQN7";0JQSMB*.;8->=Q2:X_'>S(V:Z!AY+0W\?2=C[Q.TW9(2\ZTMVR/;5T)X
M>2_K1:F%2I7'D"2VG[II+O.!T`]_$OL^Y?%BA^54NU9;[&:(88-OWXC#&L2ZO`QKS75
M2#PANK).?>J\`^#B41"";YP@XB88XC+.D(PX1U1$OO3=V/'=I'.'L\#FN01K
MPUYS%!8[]\'QCHK9;7TWFYH)Y8//I/V\#6HZ"=M`VE?G\&)+Y")^/:).8GNO
MTAX;B3?A'ZSN-W]%PQ";M6/-C:];^/4;G;'K(^D&/J*,1C1AX)!X@5GB6Y3T
MI+GQ?M^8C^WU3OO=SV@O^GEF:]G@[W=::B6'QTUG>A;\R:01_72JWXSR,7\[
MG^R`A5)[5PQM,>Q;8!K\-,K]'E-D3_LR\U5VVY]`N690CZ)&;H\(J1D06@%8
MC[)I.;)L"/?'#QWJ\A!QF%$([81$`8T3!)$-1'T1B:.HZ$?1.(BZI
ME[>#)1K=?="THKU_&YOIU>VQK3GU8'^9(KZOJ04WT$;\'S'IU=5<846[[X#<4
M%H9*>O7,FW<D
M1\S`;D]X>YZU>]B3PNR-TRV]_ET8>A>9#EA1LD;W_2I)]A:<8W!KB;5Z"$Y.
MRPZCUN'WF<7?(*ZNZC*[G=5-WXTX&L)\P]KVR`[U"MW]
M;F3Z/_;.M;=M'EG`OT@+\4Y^.8"NW0)]WQ9M%XOS*7`3-376M7-LIY?]]8>4
MDS213(J6QS:I]DO1IH[M>32SM8]A>3/P)I7:CU=_W.VOOD^:[>M/JP^;\U?+Y=^
M6/5++T'T@H[CZU]@`#/LEK/C-`_]=28=8@#SPYBV?>S2"5DN:*7M:'Y=
MZQDGU+GJ;E=4"<6Y&0*EF+IB*>;(C-R2J1H8%NI3D\-M3!>3(CQ9/8CK3H4BE)[-!MH7[8[BF5/W_HL-%(Q+
MV\W]MH**FQ"(2VM'.[M4:4_+A\A(`;DVTIY&L9.*WSH!^39B?)L=%"@G@-VO
M)S0H5=2]HKRVT-N$WMX]V2&^P5D.?CQO--3[=`LCG19G/V@OZ^
MD9]Q,8+V?J)-Z^S$#MTK"A@8C!,4;99G!38E7B"N4+0YGUW!]K37CQ08D$<4
M;0IH5[#>*?YX@^[L/@MWSUE2(YGD&9(4B0)K.SR@__V1N`8)&1VUU5!G'2_2KW;?>
MRZK.M:R)UH0RH65A#MK+(I$YSO4;4H8D&KB%((GU/M3>OD?FTNOW^6+DG8HG
MV0A*E5NVE&=5RJBYMXU10C-:)Q)3;DP^$TIR655JI^:.R7ND%X8]?O]3/KAA
MX;P>G%MU.>EW)CG7DW,;*-\GYQC/35%_HNVYGIQ;.*\GY[:^$O5G49SKR5&0
M)^=HSBM1;VMB_X.#$@K3@?375RA'PR].^ALN)Y:*(9A%AAR/ZC+&<5`TKR5&
MW>U&/UUYP>09QF,']W5PL3`6@PT29$3PWXY@M(&GIK,;Q0&,B%M.`H#
M>\"`W1ABT`:4=J>H^6)`4]*&8S`\:8.(7QO$V$6!'[2!34(;CL"PTP8^!4^!
M*1J)@4U)&X[!,"%M8'*LB>13\A3'8)A0%,DI&XE!3LDV'(-A0K9!X.Y@/T\,
M*'W0!CR$(09M.`8#>\0@)Z`-:N2B$-/2AO$8IJ0-I@WV*`QT4MIP!(;(M0$=
M7X0CI@C'6PPJUK@!"H,P&/1'1AHW/,,PM@C7;JA,1QN.PB`>,$1:BWR.8601
MKMV(FI`V'(/A21OBK$6^P#"N"-=NC[?:@-`DM.$(##M/,1@^Q:`-(XMP[7F"
M"6G#,1@FI`TCBW!MI[@)>8IC,$PHBAQ9A".F"#':\\13TH8C,`!HP]/\(^OD
MSZ'!MF^:S>;CE]GRX_=F\:W9#;E]ND0T'I:DZ@?3!M`LEF-G_"K7Z?KN\=$3
MD8":H_SX(8_SA&'F*,,3M]])L@('9P'%/%3&]BFN9_^Z1!A!R:Z!A3PU_GS@#B+$US`!D
M''Z4`033&F2`VHC(@@P@MCX3_W[WX`((MP6#]MIU_7ZA!1AF>PE#`6Y'!1]=@/&TAA>(2@`7\D"/'CDFO7]GO'6[`(;>&&[TF:K]=
ML`$'V1IL`$(./=2`HVG?+@&T$E$%&G!L_U0RSL?Z3RECD#7B"F!+2MH#"\(!
M=P$G$5E`(?\36)R>\9^X`A"F-:P`M1%QQ150;/^$%6=#'5)4L1N8\>_YS;/1
M,6^7KYK5[7IV]V5^G>F/V)@W>C/_UMRT8U@WKY?Z^3?SVV6QNE]NU_H[C2:+
MY$.;>#$P)2VO")=YGG!:90E%,D]R6N8)0H5B9:JIJW+7/M3NU%2_I3J,].$1
MY2EB`],$O(@2YY"+$X,\X0ADX'&^LAUH:*^OXT/GS9UW(/1)!_?*=G2AE4UD
M3&"F$\IV.N%DF(!,()2M\9X($Z`A@[)M8#04;JJ]3Q6
M#XWWS3(*E0:TYU&MY[&?D(D2#8P#4JT#`IA.'083$`>D6@?D4)=8C.T)IMVJ
MUA%9V41I98#\D&K]D/UX__%D[%67[.MJO37YOQF".1H.$;H:-QRP__=".E\D`5%P#*P[@()W
M$?)^O6Z6(6F!O?1]T+VNG5PO,9A*PL=F_?7XR;ZG$%QX^-4]$OB605^M5YMG
MM;]7L_DR(.&M]3>OXN8>V7P&?&?;8K9>_YPO;X^KJASNPZ
M`0'87>=!`,[E.P$EC\]W`@IOOUB"#[B7'88/!<3B4^2+P'
ME,"0(8X+<9S*X#TH&`9[?X>#,)S=@X(!L'K0P!PGF,`Q.DXPX:>0=`+BL.\8
M[EG]47A.,#33R3K)P/ZA+Q-N]YGZC4)WF7`4K"[S(`KG]IAP\CO*M8=<8#V7
MYX03/$+/"2?\)#PG'`[["7/1.[`?@^.$(S,9QTGHP)%/7R;4D6P*9K_?$8;G
M!,1@3S8/PG!FUPD(((YD$U#@^%PFH/!3/L%
MO8=/!;J*^@8:CTX%0AUQ9N(@S!<3@2$TQ.H##F9TI(($X
M"KJ``EM=Z-Y''I8S!<1@STVIHT5VH-X4D,M$3N`"$K'GI([F]`&[T>&>F;YL
M'#VB*3T@8;^$%X6D8&].SH(M[T+*;Y]S?8C\9_*ED()'EXY""F]/1^V!8YC^
M$Y+*-/PG)!''N(P8O>=@:TC?]-S1")FSP$_C0E*P-T_@!Y0ISNP]`>6W>L^#
MY#^7]P04/#[O"2B\W7O&=O\3DLI$O""22N[P04V^H[']OC!^M#`2%,X'@N)(Z).$]`(JX4(FLE4HH+S0$D64)*@NA
MN"*EZ>.H(PA'C1:EHF\L;`*YQ'ZM15UKT_)^MFT^;/4?-^^:];7^C]GM$>NC
M!8$H3E_8"I'SHF+<3(XVW7%3>\,9>"6H/G]NKDV/RQ#U@.S3`R2I\M/9)=
M:F4PQ3D`D53M7QF4A;PRNL*/M8^IHQ/;0R(>^LJ`TX.]*X,R+B);&5S_-P01
MLG]E((Y9N"NC*_SHE>'JL'2"P.$$*P-.#_;[#*&\]""DE:'#8@@BR!)-21'R
MRN@(/WIE.&/J*'P&G![L7QF>4750*T.`V`I+GH$5"SB:Z@H_>F4X#M;B6%8&
ME![L71DDC2[/X)@B""+,DF?@D/.,KO"C5X9C5$(L/@-,#_;G&41$MS*8!/&B
M?/_*($'7IKK"CUX9CJYTL:P,,#W8[S,0B2X#YY1!$)'[5P8+VV=TA!^],APG
MQ"))P,'48._"8)A&EV8(+"'*V*EE89"@%T9'^-&;6L[>,G&X##`]V+\R"$?Q
MK0P%82N$)Q26POV=PX
MWJWGU\VY:0A.*\(5310O>$)SAHR6D(25F2I)7LNT&"K?LK1WX-A'-#>,>K5N
MYK?+W?G+ZY_F5%J]6'W_9W-SVYR2C^SP42F5!>9U@H3($XKTVLDSE"=2BHQ0
MGI%[\6[$;_3MEL]*N,S3[-\3ZZEW57LC]1Z,);U>YN/%=S5Y[`Z;E1IB1C-9)6H&ILPG1&]
M6F(!!%R!.$]W;"]
MO*=[R6,/V/&X3^QPGSUX/NYSP%X^"XX/\I\?MJOK_WQ9+6Z:]<9Z@M`JR[0=2$HF94())MHJ()4H5!%M@].:JJ%`@)!>5RTO
MV3J/_LMLW>2SC;G7^_6N66YVO[]>SY:WC;$+^G;;O-)OO2VU%7K*F$;3EI29
M'F9:YU]4_'#O\@^M*,O*)%59JD,)GB=:Z8I$&R%.9$92F4JC:^A*[8=]==>L
MKS8&P\98XW\(_DS?`@!X]D?Z]_W73\T:^KGU5DE6:AM1YT62%[5^*^6(`8`?
M(#`Y6T:0X.QH6\:[%P\%O6>V[C;%GOP3T]*-8/ZBYCS'X%ST^/
M[.WG7S]\,Y]]FB^.B2`?=@6)0S.&RO*^)+#+=O3"RX!5`PZ(RW81AUY!#>>S1C_9'FZ=7E_/-
M]6*UT6GI>].R:#U?WHXE84:8XM;5X9KS`HV"5`7+5-9TPS)IT,#82H/EAPVU+!I^EIZ#Q0.G!:V8L'
M:=7$6O&/B0?AY'@>M-4/ZZY`1#P&YRI[\6`M#Z_Y/('S&!R0Z<6#M^O%?K2K
MWS(\="Q#@\Z\L(A632P['%&IR>#,&B\>LE43ZZ'*_FR&T*FH@=UE+RJJI>(8
M%1@9EN$!#;ZAFN'BU27-&*D0B`!N+VM@5
M^\0FGE*>6U>D4!`4.D-G2A_DPISTLZ%[HBX8J%S(=?U#OU-L7,!R(ASIAD^'!U@JA!VIT-Z.$\&3@4J*L",I
MTA\=01VN0P8L*X9(!@X&+CG"KN1H
MSVSF().C#AVXY`@[DB.3#421'!&4#DP^\%U&KML''&$>?CFW97&"Y(A&GAQU
MN(`E1S3VY*@+!BHYHI$G1QTN8,D1C7W#J`,&+$NB[BPI@I-Q73)061)U9$F$
M"-Z[M1`Z&;`LB3JWCOJM/X,'`Y4G44>>1/O77`+G`I@GT1*F$B"X&[@CE>`(]I!:%"=(DUBDQ^4*D/B_124(_Y]LO_UJN/IGVG[-/B^;U\NY^N]%OL%I>ZP]H^X4]O5T^
MV\PW[9-IWV8T3(0E\7'7.OA*80-N-!E^?+V#G.YO=&/.1%?1&3X8'OYV)=]\:Y9'(,*I
MY&WGPX%6S[S,"QU'U`EF-4IHP;6A+#E/B"@SE;$JS=A0)W]$.>YI8D>.DPJ)
MF7!G8UY"NBZ_=IWLR_-3>OE]O9\G:N]6+G7/\>W^T'$:WS/ZA2
MBK@=(%)%IE]5)8PH[0"Y?L^86JA,I7?_?_5S3
ML?_.<5WK=RA8RB5W&]J2:O6LTB(AF.NG7V=YDC%"DHKB6ND`JZAX_M!IT"5)*6B:4Y3QIVYVFN*QU.(1%;FR@06#?F^V/3CM$&QRO
M?;5>;4:/>C@!`FN"J3^T']0,R.5-(;N^OO]ZOV@'0'Q=K;?S_[9>(R`NUD13
M]3U&X_^D8;P3,@P"%\]H;&:$$@$5A.BM2@R"P*)
MQ=ZY!O@AP2F`5E/S"5[@S=UWX@A_WHMSH.T8(,HO!5%&2W(*Q?J@C)
MA``BL)H03%AL00@D%ZL-09+T'.W15N1TVT701W=XM#<KF^WRQ.%!JO)/:*6>=5;3F!"6Y
M*JN$(B&2G$J\9!:#]P>/S"'37_-ILOS-&">K7^,%LT
M'XRT+8I"RS5?WJ_N-_]:KIO98O[?YN:-3MG>K39SDY"\:38;,S_PX_=F\:WY
M2[_ZRR]\)Z""!!>"5WE2$#,\NBAHDO,B2V0A$*]Y6J`TN^+VG7;"6S6MY^;-9?R^;3]J_9]N$#WC=WN_&,F[>?WVGUNI[?S1:OEW]K:,_?\P0@
MI>(J9ZS2Y!C1*6U5)5DAS3X^K7)M.#&MT"ZEM6_A/U8[GJ^B8\1\22R_GR]N
M](HS@ZQ??[U;K[ZUIV%&E4)\B!"!98UDK0U+*A*:$9XH(DFB:E7B4@<8A/`K
MQYDT+OH;N$X9]A];^3C[L3/-Q>QNOITMC+X5L_7ZY^?5VLSP/(7H95;@O*BR
MI)2$)C37[Y:95540HFJB&*6HN'(4-UA_X+*W."\IO%NO[IKU]N>[Q6RYU=#,
MQ-([@^S"3]UN917N%W;<4@P\]\-KG8"/V-Y%5_1+$_N^^HGC)Q]1_6I2NZS;
MFFIRI=WLT>'C:W=]^^=@L'\J\9J;S9MN>
MXCP!GHQD)"34ETY]GH($OU%`2[X668^>ED2
MGZF&.!VHW_4[RHT;]-BJX8,SO?0"0HZ>R*H7#/2_^8`/-$AV0\T7B]7WV?+Z
M%+F$ITNT)I&4]=:"AR`#DC\S,__/WK7VMHTDV[]RL=^YE\U^+[`+\*79`#/C
M()/!?`P4F[9UUY8"2II)_OVMIBQ'4K.:E-0T']D%9N/$>K`.BWWJ7;T:`@Y]
M9LW&WK$4J!K_NEK>]J[)*!40;M?GUUY\PRV%'_;_EG_]4BS71?4I_=U;?.6Y
M0,O0FZ2YPMLUC`!T4'3QC+=W]WZ,?&G;SY8EZXSK\6Y>UB;:R27[?/GSMYV%AN!(^Y\3!".%]X
M#&Y&$@>4T8S.6*IRE=CU(FMSV6M3#W`*G'>93R#=K&[_\[AZNBO*M?%'.S&8
M6IZY#`^B"&J'9NU+[[!PR">UX&O0B!V0/Z=2R!Q`[Y;K3;DU6C";WQ:=.9+M
M3U#<8MCSZ#&QU(O0UJLZU\8Q'E.`YUG2E.6Y,"N
MGTPF"W>@9)5)RM-8
MII)4#B4>0Z8V@7B1%5&C^U6YOBC$O___&.Y>/KGW^#<
M*?[VO_66^[OE[>JY`$/WP(WIT1/#"4J
MO.S*6)5;YAJ3]7.S^?:YV7P#^H?C;+VXK2)#I!/5$REG8+82:4+D<9($H'[P
M?U+-LHA+EJ=9@UM$9+T%VPD$5WJ7,S"J>C6-VHP5NDBJAM##\6G0WQF&.I!<
M6M'V!B%.,RRO==)5&,(H7ED\@NX!.+LW&*(ZL2D^@D:NGW;:>?=_VW7%6&!D
MW]S#EW;!Z"I-(YHF@4XU,5:2,OE%%82ID'&TB06H8YEJ%W9^H@2NUG#E[RV4;1:
M5DYL=?RMX^WF<54:+NG/-Z6R)BBQ;Y0\`L5Q^==&MCHZE]L'MG#3BI[5,XJ+
M=UI$MUD\O`QL,>-(A:V8O.&@7![4V?G*9.C:DPA]LCTT!3&;]8Y12\?\VD5#)1
M/$[Y[MQ"'UE"(_L$K[W^$XZ:KQ_-?R:\^B>HP,Z!_PW.^8UYY[OEG\7.4.A"
MKUO>8_2PAF]@-FVUELA3ZF$7=+^Y?P..%X3&,E9YD$D3(6(I!\LR-E&WC/*$
M96&6E$W[V*[`M:_+^=[;]K44'44N29*DQD'/:+P!]`?,)^.
M=![0%)XR$@)J+'/%)NU&UD8ISDKN]WYHXL5^(6U.!-Y%E>>1,>GSZ
M4I2?7LWJ\.]2=I+HF;[68-SH,I"C^.4:
MYKAZ710SAHBZBQ/B^3[^KBVH]_K5YJ3&>'=9;]A:+P?!TA]H0J?Q*?79UV
M]%@O[_8WK/ZY[RC[WC8WAF&J5'.1H@?)3[CA]1[]O)HO^XSN.2(=EF%W>M7'
M,AD_:;E9E=_^6)7_>;=\7ZYNBTX:<5*5++NK5-VQXD]=OP,(`C&0\:43LOY4W>LP_DEU"K
MB5]484F0V9#FHC2FU\(QH?)V=W'?F2])NOPFM'O/?7@J):C9TV\;1`2
M[>+OT8C&T\%,AU99`5[!ZXQ>NX!$VE!$.HFL!I4-BU(RX1ZG/-@\BX$GSB&OBG6)H9
M3:WN=+E'!Y4!&):CR^ZGH[B_\/-:6%',5'*2VB_BYT)SF!]BFMW^'UZTVY
M^+R%E^?S:E'U?G0K+')[+MS\-C:[FM1(U6T5`8
M`;=VE':US[?CAS($YI''"2ZX1IDL]4Z#J\ZOHY<0'0")2IQQI25S+>ZU)K'C1)
M18&LYB!$9])
M:FZY"IBQ=B(XJ1J,>&IO0JF]]!/=+L"^,3HPH'F%^`'&:\8WH@+@%;&]%L+B
MC<7[K218(>RI7L(]+3;=O"3:NS!:!L^`Y):0:M6LK15L!.K[*+?M[V]BRO/.:,LZ@7K=-M1
MJ]!>FST^D7,HIB!V[?QY^XVN;#(<4N^]H[LRM/-`W@6_=N;87ZM>F\(=@U?=
MIDM;Z,-3R(ROF7Q\5M#-R_-H=618N[Q_/=8^6STO;A=/72A1
MFN14*/`_@"#X\*%2VF8==_XF8>R?H
M%U`$>(VAYS\6F\??EZO/IK9Q-][FR[;R6(&BX"AZ::A_F2%?V3:5XG3E&"4L
MR:(9TX&2\("`.V"*O=(H4'&JF9*9%%R;M72N=>OV?`3/1CSF3/('H8]ZN>P38W,_*!X,^&RU_;RYWS[96>+>[R2^0*-FELHY(OEJ
M6]X/K-S')H?3QHQW3!`\/NM=_L[*F@8P:SX-(.D)XA
MT[4#,;NQC=O'/M$TP^M.P:LF8UJV<&G^N6H+W+]_T$/O2/>LVJX6:RKID#?[9L)X+X/,M
M>%B3C\LK[Y8
M=&^+`@8PXP$/\7.[A.&"QK`#^NMUE/^#GI^)EWM"A+8.ND.Z1C5"GC81:N&C[*H%;+@CO
M=].7H_'5WL;CDJ%U*4:/=1=X`+.F.!<5`#]&AN"<1F@I$IC]=G-`_>6WN9E'
M/7\OG7[[UK\>[S$>[0NE:ZY/2\E:C3EY;9=^7RSG3R]]-N`+%F6QWKPDP'H=
MA8(>B)I:#_T5,N[`>E[?;_[QH=B`0_.].?3HD+U?W"XVN\%)XZA7HNA#QL6K
M;=:9W`>PFE>"EI;_GI=W?\VK"H_?5O*=8!(B[SA?L%$ENS$4:,$$S,Z&`!O$LD72FA$YI?!*H?,V5TB.LNA#X$$_S'G"G]N\J
MS?/ZG'_]LBAW'L,5XXZ/$(FB,.,D(T%*,@Z(:&`E()H@U8(D6:JC**G\0]/U
M_2_X%!J$.J"O*+2XS+=*.GUB6FHAOO*0Z:I4+Q*$P=]4J)6'A%1D$E)HI*`F
M-7-^-JH/9.!O2DL"?XL4]X03PW$:-4*2FI%*(X:BL.G]OO$
MR4,)R"LT)-3,_42UJR)S=A41>[4'(LV;JT8EOW&QB>C2WX\
M56[8#"5W%[&QKO9%;UI:-`C1HA3V3	E-%"$_9,8-F4T2(5]DQIV^Q@2.
M(U]46)ACJDWKTS436UX6M=S@UJH(ML^L+(.[$)0VPX8I.`
MRA/#"'2R8D!'6+^F
MWV9+F"=>E!4OHHA=#57]%'IO`R\`*_#PJ3G7)9'7)RXCY_P@^%[K
MF6LMX,E4VFKQCJTJ*@U4$B7P@8P3U33UB1!>$U%T3$DT(R#^6CQ=V)KT*APE
MH78+%XHX#SDS(TPB$K"8S0(5,6'.>RZU$BK/JU&YCAI>0IC%D/OK[_+.-0O7
MZLZY=5^*L[YQ:NU9US'[\ZK*M^?9L[Q[SU
M,R=ARSOG2ZJ(-7C`;:5R]$M$T5L+Q8F?A\Q1P&_/BWV31ZQ1M%:/&'/.LHJ8
M??+7/F(O79J?-]\;$?7=]G\&]C&U7C7RU%@4AD4
MP/3X9#B>!^.#A(IUV$>:R5)C%X.0+,&\;30,"3T(8K8-AI
M@Y@"4T2,7`@#GY(V7`/#A+2!JTN/2#$EIK@&A@E9D8+Q"V%04SH;KH%A0F>#
MC$ZG^[2$@80OVA`UP3`&;;@&!KZ'04U`&_2%#X63FQJ"P.;
ME#9FG6,[AT,4D@I\B1(:10%+$U9D)A-'BJ51,Q$F)(0
MP,*KZ[E5[]L1$@C*+KKVWEX2Z$UV7P?&X`X'?!Y%:+7#>Q#;%XZ'Q\Q-:;8N%>7@L$4;TIBU
MI+LC)'P=!?NC9O\%0ST:\'6\_HZ&)BQ&85LP0MR-IZT`9[AM(5Y:4_YK7/B&
M'-]"AA_8/XR-X0MDU,:PNQHG;&3X0A,U,J2]T.)',3)\88OO\?0([22,#%^(
MHT:&U8WYHQL96GJPZASC`>S^UQ_=QO"$.&IC>+2C1VMB>,+XOV$,CV"B%H;/
M(V)D!H8G:-O,&?O1+0M/4+<9]/V#VQ2:RX;%U&V@YHYY<83B+MZ/:57XPAR?
MU1994UI^/+O"%\JH7A(WA
M"W)\PV-H#8K\L6T-0H3V$#"*'$D2CD/^0YH:WB#'`Q@>E7RDEH8WD/$(AD=S
M;NB&ACPX_
MDFKLK`S="SC10W\_!"
M3JH-#(0)@>/V[M?9Z4(&&%C]
M#+3T],M\LRE*``Y5KAII^T'',Q[6L72$!ST?CTK?=O\`AQ4P/O!?_/14/!1W
M3]_>+>]+\P%W-\OKT.!$,"8/T5#P.QIR1N%O-#Q>?V1CHW,!MCO)@ED$]A)3
M&3Q?4ND@TEF6"IK*G"O[(3O"YK4=M(6P@X!&R`J:XTH;&QHVBP6/N=$88=8;
MP1=K^*B`)1G\R?*(9[H)&G8N-*^+;ZKU)G\L[@Y,I9OE3\7JH9Q_>5SNL@J6A31E\)X@)X(&
M3,]8H'24!QP^0"?@M,1@&C2HV^6G]A#T382$-RS&:*5OU&F'"\,?;Z!O'6[W
M]KVI6IDA!QHUR97ET@UJUWFW.ZF5:>1$L1D9)IY6;BHS3&LRF/A9JJG,$*&)
M8.)K;:8R!_'$SA5?"S*5&3,T8GWQLR%:[T9]HQEV*]0Q7#2\,X_>C3/%0AM6
MHA#0
M>*(CO=O`X3Z(KT$&SUG&SZMR8_)F9L'KQ>!0*0TXH6+NLS=)(IJDLSA05,[`
M@XS"(,YS&N@\4YJR)$^B*N#EF$FB\1I%MW!M$1D0"&B.]!P06N?QMV59+(>D
M`VCY2+ML_$Z>TSC4\N%C43Y?OZNZ"X'1)95'Z29+@K:E`S^5J_5!IORG^>+R
M(*]_X:^;B5,C6YN=];X2DO[AP)G2>O9;B=;V@!A;3%QM/OOPS7#)4Z/**#$>18*;TR#Q$:9'
MX:=`F![A0`FSYN$?`6%Z1&8RA-DX3;DM)LKA:4J[;FQ@C.D1!IPQX;>#I4R/
M`*"4R9E=SMX_=WJ4?'SP2+]D*D_'/`E#9*&PRT6\H@`'KD5DITS7?.M
MZ-2?Z".D4W_"X_NA]BU?(Z)3?["@=,J%M3=K#&SJ#YF)E0TU#LIMB0P)77,.
MQ!DG:"]A08)="Z.SXL)O6(@L,Q#4?GF7K$
M92*5MQX1P3?].G8N_#][5]K;-K)E_XK1,QC,`%V9VI?7@P:X]O,@B8U.>AK]
MR6!DVA8B2WZDE,3OU\\MRHM$BD5*+CED9KYDT7Y/W>U4W7MKP$$4A*+N84%]
MTPO3'D29@?]8E".Q_=IX/G=4.H3_G;V>@^\K]2*/4I^.BXJ$_AVP>MMIO^
M,..G3U1^C/CI$Y$?Y52T>WQZ7TRDH^E3\?:;OH<1.#W"T-[TJ1S[6=\[/ZE'Q\H=.C\.W;N*,+G1Y1:=_%;0X>'4$(]8A,^R[N'B4T`XJD
M=B"3%W;NZ/XDF`^=@GJ$P7'SVSXPO'(D]0A`>WW1\,*H1[%;PRBL^[`WX6R"7V*8A:@&OY/5OF
M'Y;PQ^5Y7DS@B>SZ!?91`4$XQ5N-3>)`'+;K^>]610Y:\,8IO$NL5]&"AO!(
MU>_\45&::,Z1@<03<6,T"H.((LJ5"F64"`F"N^_\(=2_$B175_G$#K8
MU#:VG_3"5M4-US_4A3\T2KB.]!ZG0P_P#']ZL#MR*M-+#X9D&013'XB0EIQ2JR%;
M1DWX@RW#R2Q&$3/\Z$/M@S'O(A=MQH/
MTC)\ZVC*1$ZC"-44R"%'%M!`H!020%%B+A)C8XZ=C*YZ+1
MR]=+-C<.EM\_7M^>9T?$Q]=P\=@KB,J4T24"A$G$49A0$*D
MM0H8EP$+`1_JQ$>J9G@]4-R],'M^W[.]EO">."_A5=9E!Z7]@NG\>N,%`T*T
M_4Z"'9>Z'P6,O?!^NL7XZ$I:-^+^D'8/3>H/::N\;M0V0\9`5+11+<99&JD@
M1*&@">)Q*E'(P4<2G3+&4V62B'>=]IIN/%^.Q!KI:57#OG&?]O87^8!KCROF
M1;+SZ-=R.&RH&H,/)4RG785+I-NJ/86?!Q9!WUYUL&<=V0]CKCYSEG'(.*G&^Q>\;/#
M`](?*7Y21_QL@-S]N[?%YF]K5!463SZ]PB
M%MX_O^0\N[!5^SXO(I%PS*A`F&%10/%,JH>F!IBG)D4>UP20^B
MBLI_Z?:)OXUMRBY)K3FLS60!@)LYE]ZAI6$@/(C>
M-5"))T$`&0.*A09WP2B#_($89$C"(%O#*3LFW#D=S>S1;W
M>?X!7@+^8+>G>;^H0BQD&-:IE!\7RVRV^;RU(@BZ?^7P,R>+Z[GM$#L8PK7+
MA?]R]^&'YFD"03-$X%:L_E@"1F.#6,`Q36(%F9E:>]SV?5W3V-`M]:
MI3<2O(KK?+S)YF=K]_[TV_Z$-/W&_L8O>9%=Y[]9#Q>#\WN*";Y7B#8Z$GG"
M11`C;`(,9`^6"BP]0I`E2J8#AK6M;:D6J$7)MV,B>V.8AYCH$7%TTPIB\,QI&*$P2F'E&/QA%`1A+84&:PMC',L=*_>X4LW!PJ\&C:<5>9=]
MF]ZN;I^I3.2FFU3=:*O;2!0#';9R6(X-812Q"A(>0^J1AC$)L*/@W(7A"
MP*J`*C12^\?C3"(\`-^!@">R->;.YA]TG5>IZ"/
M"MY,.GP#,(X@;7$63JK?*T@W4!O1*A+1W;,XAFLCOA$I%U'9.,6J\$J";&EW'X@(0XE,8T8/E@E\8M(>[#1
M(U(2!EF>'TB$0TE&H1U>H6@_2_VP&2!1#X0Z$@
MF'!:1=R.O8LH-FF($X(P$;;Z2MB9;]J@-(JD"EB2ZB"]L)T-$'';C\::UUYU
M2O8]D+BH1M_9V9A`C#JRU5ZXJ/I(H]8)H0/'@^".MJE^>&B+1Y_Y_(/'@TGW
MA,1^>!B+1VM=]HCP8-QXL!>&ZZ/@QHI'YZWE_?"H1J*U'D@W)_0/'96NVV?[
MH4(M*GTF40\=C\ZK!/OAP=Q\MSFF?NBPF(["E7ZP\`J6UO/X\0#2?656/T"J
M+,W\`'ATWG_2#P]I\>AU2>^>>#QRFVG^BJ`P37PXURIE)7URDIY2OK:J:&5\
MI*KK8K#VFPBQ;!:^#'AC-8YNTQ'AX8_5
M.%I%]7/=\%AP\<=N2#N[&1,>WGB-XX8=3JEI7N`Y;6S\41[BH#S->H%A
M,A_;K.R)^5#788ZIAA\.W*N0]97I_ID/;6'#/Q>MX>*/$3DZ*4>$AS\F1-N9D-(C2&_KP'BC1-1Q>S=N5JX-
M'1A_C,A5OZ;5\#[K*/'/&1DZ,Z,-[($1\W.:KAXH\2N(LD-9L,!P^,-Y+$'>=&
MBC5W,(>.C#^6Y.H6U+S903EX9+S1).ZB27KX6[S;P'BD27S.U6!R#)8EQ%L_5\/!'
MC\0XB^?J>'AC16*-7`T/?Q1'C+@?J`:*/V8C',P&D69MPE[4
MIIJ5?3J_LH]4@[^BK,S+X/)RNIZK?YY7DPH/QX8;666K4MAYX)JLYT63+5^+
MZ^.BE4QT$G.42BP0%P!-(-,0Q4I0$Q%%4D&:5X>\S:^SV;MLN$O(PIBDW2*O0W@5"$Q0&$44ZB`S7*E92F/5L[?;9
M,G45\@W"L"'N#/U](78<9#*1A$@12XF8B@,3B`0'HO,F):EV3:+;DN.H
M0E*AW'2TEY#NJRD9XSLF0KVNC!<24VG$-_BK:UEUQ'"B0HU@<0+$`Z:13A.,
MXA128LX2QEC7LHK'>;D]!7Z[*,L(A+0!<3ZY?PB`T2R;WI8O&V7Z&-HIY_1"
M,"PXJP*]W%KUYETJQ,0\H"!U%`42<5AL9)14"(0G,E2A$:'E4[6Y)%NA?N,N
MFV[YG'@$DTFQRF915A3W\%!E^NO+KPX>>O6$"]B?^W[GB-OTAB`-B$`ZF`0H
M,%@BK5/(?6),<1QU:`/3C4.`_@(Z@?G=CH4]NSJ'1Z?@.NVSYXMB/7AY67WH
MX?.ECX!0>]MX\P;L`R3=6X?>0X@9G!JUNE':+''82\9:)C*%+\G?3K_DEZ?S
M):!K85TSN/>'SY(#VL/Y-VZ,86Z614P4P*L2))@!EB7A,T,F$H29#%(21R&)
M@J[8V2SF=0M58^.3?ZRFX)#;W_.RB]G64`CPM-*=Q$ZD&XN^JN)H>R:D>3G@@+R(3PS:]8'1Y@;KL-V(3US:AP6P1KWD6-P(
MY=J]?=;7C3B8+A$[BM8'Z$8ZL>BK*HZY<42*QD'\D-R(1PS:-Y!W[`\-W8UX
MQ*7=C6BS3XCIYT>.5Z3@O6)4CK2OSGNIJ!QM)YWW*E$YUMXY[_6A2\(E>/M@?->"RH=M:`[CN\'!X7'XD\YUCXW[V6?ULIW=Y45FSW/?YK8H,ETMX;7O(*>_7=T^W/=:QB^N?F`8
M&)6=&TDZ+H3CC',6:X&4Y!1Q&6MD.!/(A`8#OP^#2'95/PC:.*;=3\B#`#J=
MIXM5\5>>%0HJWQN0RG_XMF2^GR_MH<7N[F']8+B:?JZO>R[/5
MLEQFA[5[**(OMMA2L](S)6&@0D*08K;"F_,4:2(5(BFED9::!DI=;(_(>[S`
M7C/-F)%"B?_ZSWX";#2WO,V6>;D\+[+)>OVE;;7.>3?>OOZQ$NN`&
MB*ZR]4^B-=3[/BPFH>F;+-]_GR[UKNBE]A$59J\8<DJU?_\IN;_/BYY/3^>3-R;__V[]\@Z^,?ED_NOY?
M_,M_.-5AEY#;R'Q8?2KS?ZP`P`1P6\9Y.2FF=_L=MAP?#/`*9_.3_U[-[D^(
M_OG$?MO/)U_SD^Q!LI->4/U\DIW,\JQRVG?%XLOT$J+\XNH$Y,Z+NV):YB?E
M8C+-9B?S?/EU47PN?SZY6A0G_TK>T!.@C3.+RA2``8-Z\_"5)U_A\0JJJ;6@
MY0(4_DL^6]R=3)?E2>5BL]EB#I^[++R_9OMC_QX1VE_=!W
MTTFQ*!=7R[4PYI?RY&Y1+*\6\)NL")/%[=VL:MW)"E#CV6)UB3Y!A+M\^I0W
MSXK2ON:=5I-<7>43>P6T=[1%C
M^N,300J!TR!"*8LDZ(4,4$A#C)(DC*F(4R[3JCE(6+TX)^RO?2H8VD5Y'6,Y
MAIJLS8,@^"+"_)C'=]>)>MWR01K"*PWA1U&0X2#T4)5Y$$*L0DC\Z`B)ZGZ:
M@Q`B:R_SHT/T4$QS$$3TB$I4:[]ZGW]=MS2FTUE^N6_?9@6$/?1^GUO+#O&1JLDO5)0FFML33DC*P-WJ]3P'RL$$9)0(2>B%JW*9
M-EO;'2(<6U8[>H(K_8T;;:1P2LZIYBG1&+$PA)5/8HD"H'C(.@1A%),Z8%T=
MISN:"PP_SV=E\MB58WZ>7[=VC">GRI/
MY^MGR[UVA.J0,,WMJ3^GF+D<02]#(/6+RAYWOJEY8Q[=WV$"]D$HNK%=[_OM
MBSOAV$(`8FD8*XB!"=,IXB+1-AHR%('O)X$)9&1=X0/5A\]D"#-$1)?4SS^Z
MMOMG#P1^S^]6Q>0F*\$5+JZ+[#98+6\6Q?2?54GR7NT)C%B%U=A0>N'>$J<4
MQX+$!$4$5)Y+HU`HI$21D20$JDII2-I]ONV%P\T-\7[B[$B.@HF-$N7?\ZS8
MXVR@DA:R9`W_J.5#KHE=L8D@*P*>#F8?`D\7$.D2`]$OBDU,#&0\PK+C:$;HH+V8W&U;@R26R2
M0X2L4\M8X"`)68I4$BG$*8>LQB04!8HRD5`MDS38($[TW8-P?7[]AK#!=9%7
M.Z`)I`+W>QKHMF@.88223,D`O#1/0&\QL)O0YFE,QA/N;%[??]Z=4ZX+\>?O3F[^I0KA>JU$N5B#[@?DZT2XD:JE,C
M#NGA#&GM$;9-Q)]'^%_VKJW';1Q+_Y5@@7UD0[R)Y$L`ZM8=($G5))4=S%/@
MME4I[[CL@NW*Y=_OH>2++(HR;4FVLYB73CIEN_P=D>=^OD-:B7U\H`P4&.(R
M,.15V,R$+KPA,`Q%26N(C]3`XPSDHC$260"F4'""HCB)4!"J`$>!#D+&[78;
M'Z&T!H8]GX5.0K&*Z-XB<5J.D\[)UJZ:JO)*SR?ISY=\OLI/:"&B(7=%075W
M.(LU9TS"T2>@,B$.CN$Z@$^/%ST6HU?9R."ZVA)__[NEH;W7TW3T"!?!^9
MM#BXC^/9Z\1DJS[FZ_+=#Z.?@P@H#9-$$AJ@E"O0$JD(D4R,LPRG1Q-0Y1'6
M(*`6_E-A-S0.)8&:GVE('.AX*)*(1&!XP4RES%2"3CE
M(1A,'7+!P"J!S-TT8Z'5H'4)6=2BW$UCT\-BDV9]!X%!^22'N="`N4
M!;/ARQ^B2Y]?9HM?>?ZYK.PWGR>X@E$^SQ^GZS(3L/_)1A4.@1_*%4[LTO15)GGYY[NY'H]-R+V"NVN\BVMJ&^QL%)7V
M#.I1).X\HDDQC^9C$%2EZ?*:P(G3(X`PQ>I'/PK%SX7Z,E]N#L]?BYGIN/IS
M-)T;778W_VRF;(H1'+VEW+*\HN/CST2P&-PV^QW*EU^`4_/VZ-I6/\L-6
ML3G$RU]WC\GB>3J>#G0E)4_3R`3J20(?Q03!2,%/4)SA*`;#&`D5MKM-#;[J
M1<31V/ZM8*[(ZQ^;R'I]'\(7]^@:AQ^>O=\\MHNBP303)8>PO'BYF_FGSZ`N)Y6=\OW^4">JJ^I4:K55)R#]%!N>RTY
M='CB><7?@Z8*>,J6T[UN_,F`=8A4^C]7;8L`]1UIL'*,GB
M5&*%H@"$R&(6(9G1"&5:814HPK4R&KR:==M.4P4$]Y"A/%$&-?NX;37?W67S
MTL.=,\69WN>A>SF0=2GJ)!!A!J%AJDP+1D03I"FF2.LHTD2E?N.9SL2.V*-HQ-LUXQ0#>D=`'"(U
M-X\6UNKN8^![7:IF+@VJY>9R9^*7)\I=[?1ZRC_JJ.3AW<8K9(_\^
M:+SP[_=M5/A?KBH'MWEG@36T?@HJ5TRU+]A5>M\^YFOP(=?&%YB7Z3-XQ?UL-/\P
M^FF,N)[/S7J;Z@_SY3;NV\QF#V&L4I4&&,()%,I0F;V7&$5,482I9"R4C(+*
MK:GDG86NS+QU!U=OE=@ERI.IF3">3_96SQ34E]>UW0X:M0/;'?S!2;6%XC@B
M_[:*2N/`/T"TTT>S%$FO_LHGWW)S?>\>KUP!E%.6/B^7>C\[-1^?3;Z=TI?L+
MA:22Q$ID*`XQ!\4L-5(4#HL,,A:*3/(R5='&EDZML/1\C%[F[%,^>2W[@`]T
M_/O1BY&\?GF9E>PIG]>C]:N9YGT_?9ZN1U>W;B>4,@9`WI@5R_()/)+93:7%
MW*1BS&:!.H*C=0I@4BU*#M=:Q520A"E\"D\XG(XX`_QSX0,B9L.$/RDL89>GQ9H1!G:W:"&-JZRE_5'4EOJVXEK=XFVG6\\DV
M8+EF?J.%SMPZ$!Y0+M'!?@MQF#LM1(F52QU6#/XBW^JPPOL:_WH`$[J:U7[K
ME>6*6_)MP4GS`9Y@CV5HSUXLW[_&KIUGWP\>H&8HR@\&H&"T5M^
M7CRN?X#?==Z.HQ/P)RQ0.##X)=6`/\Z0CFF&H@SLNL*@NM+6$$-9N0]/-/5,
M8E/.=F$8Z.`@%3N0B@Q)T2ZT>\$VYWO2D!38C?E''21#RW?M^G/-
MB^ZWM"E@)H9)'&`L5`"/%\$GF#6T"44#%T?\O63<="&
MG03QU=1NC\NL2>VASGNN5&J*+)_-3*)T/BDGFWJV[V=*S]V]1(F=!79C\+_>
M-W%9G;!MEA(?+.U=P=%H-1U?LZ_(@;;>$USIO&J$4(_`5OD(S+9)?Y=;%0KN
MK.L?:6B\"KLW-IPBCL`ARMMSPGZH^JCN+&9^;A[W$]]W!Y)C]NB
M(&Q[N0,+XG)2OP7%[#Z\30L?+R`,FVOK[G'(-).GCFOA%:'*;CBJ?FW_]J(R
M4!L$9BR#*-!,(JYQBEB29$A'\#>A8IIPB2D7S-%$0VU*X>,@3I]FVGCA!Z](
MIO!&T[IEE@%=N7W&[IU&P1_XU/&F8RCK)G\_1WXX/OX!/J>8P]^/D5_5"+KW
MQBK;PSL)UK$X/E[,(#PS*6#5[L_#
M5[MM/\?Y:G7(`M4\Q7AC#4/.%AEF:=A.N'[0G\9;7N)\8XM]O:Z3,I+BQQ
M=BSQ7+#G/*MM_Q,`PEL2C01
M"0`6PI00N$*2A!$"7R].X0\DH$XOS:QW2MR;7,UXO!^C)]
MDZ5.:^/#758!T=CN;OKBVB+ZC4<76;$&61W:V+.A-8^1E*[O
M3=TH]X9A$=C-$^TXZMU=$"6/I_UUL=7KR1C\@8AD`B61V0G.8XJDH!*E+`M$
MG`0Z+G2ENYZ\#>L..K7V7[K)22HJ//&<1?YC6NRNROWCY@L.++__%$QN>J@R?7>CU&'N3E2.B2604V#5
M[TA9C#0Z9)BVY#A.0Z5BE#`&<1\$-<9L:X19DBJP8(KS5MV'[2BY^IV':J*]
M!CC*-N4Y4
MV[$A=K;`"TP]43\W]`]E,L&P7&VGVL['?&@I0[C,2@@4IQF"7\[T(C@XL5C?(->/>R6`3-/6!]=+T>R6QRQ7I]QJ#4*(N2;]7
MRJ#F"\[7TXGI*`7]OWZQW;PS(^ZPB#6Y>!*YA:`XN
MXPQ%FH,VY%)&3(I89O6P;]=Q8E-#]@'3:MJXC3TC[OY`+$5HJ;6#[UV#=%'*
M&R9=^#.&?YP.%?[Y)6J<130O$U4#RD#945.0Y9N_N,JT+
MX01`AY)X;YP:N%:?"BZ5(36B#+ED@FG$D\!LQ^4A/'6E41@E/)-4?&\P)^NJ])+:;HS3\%5'_!J_=0?6STI)YY_3]1.\WMB#
MBW/<<
M%TNL-M'I8,P8`FLEJ424LM#PT&FDI0;]G9!04"E8E/*VE!&S^X0[@?3-M)5.
MP'T^'\V*,V>&JH+(>F
M`\3F4LX-;"YKX4QMT-`MF*J%K=MN%78^*J>;3(*=R3X=4442!7O,)DL/@EH\%N%$22DS
M@?=O)^I752:F:^4E@?5,9X.BP\#50=H9\OFRF+Q:2PX#U5%(KU6MXQ?,%[G
M$VLQP1"CT)[U/4=X4-NP8":A+RB/Z@/8YX"=!"F;R8#[Y72\U>P=0
M%>'X]$K;:;IKMX`W+K_;*;;S,%6$+*14)ID*4,@H6,@P2N%@:(ZUB1M,X
M(%&@V\3559E7H-^X)%G`:6=)$B-)6TOAO9;J69)[#7;W6/PL^O7PZV7[/[W)
M2#+.?G+X>0^GC1H9-:VO(EL9M8.Z%GJ*1C/_LH_4_).]_=
MI+=)"C0U$SB$FR6"'N3&C=R:UI(2WO5F6>+X/64<=I9Q:&3:A)"B!,!DQ;!+$Y-*P!LEHA*;PC072$8A!+T\%00K)B/.2_`MNUVIL-??
M-L"Y$-ZOG((/(XV=IK0=/8F4!(P*92&$%XP0!H]>:L33))1G,N/F<
M&+;75-T`>$RQ#+N#IW5/[C"?9K.AW0!T2KB0W:&SNH-6VXIH7?FCT'LBHMW!
MICA01TK>/M>;U.W=81.*O?RQE9=VB.=K@)+N0,O#W-)59]-N7^69]@75?7BY
M^3*W\%1I=ZC%/6WIC2?FEMS"8^T+J[L55G%[/O0JCY5UAUI$.FY>E`:D5WFH
M?2%U#OV?MG+O],">/M)M4+:1%9N3L`4!/SX.6?:H]8W21RU)YHN,)3Y;@'
MI20,4N?T#GP5N_'I"@^U/ZCN#B8;RL8]Z9F
M7]3KRYFUZHC;KLQAXLR',N7038@DQ";Q*0U9"?RAA'&Z(2YN]U2\ZM*X5?LA
M;"]FNZC0>II?+?[S*2\;4?+/^?)[69*QP(C(5#%-HH3%NXK'VWOVKQ[F4]LPUEIAIV8J_3T(>U+KF?VRRA]?9^^G
MC^=``ONR
M14A9:_4YBE7&JWI-_'>0"CWW_
MJP-61>W\=,"D='/>WO/?"K#QN47]`G@!+B)K4=,.OP%@3*FPC(0/X#*^[GJD
M;]1REN7NTRTGV0J%_W^TG`U2\;*]_KT:+Z=%(UP7
M8D[_5@>O;BRG/=RU.GCBN3GGP8BG9^?ADGTA%]6TI:RZ.@^\3,3#]0ENWK8<
M(C[7>PC+?&9-8=P^XO/=AR*#('\+?^D`\-GN@RPK$6_O:1?`^YD>L_=X,BFF
M.48S0P/X;KY95EXHAK_KNJ/9K%:VYA9-UAVD!9:1F&P(9NVY8(II*B+-D-"@
M%UG`!-):213C4#$B>):&F_C!G>!O8D<=6#+^RUYN3Y!NLC-LT^8?A>9%&E.\
MLC-GS"#2W%;4:A1QXZF2I5
M4$[>#HFY=9I.-&"WM4!Y&/FY>Q:OM%%Y-[D'O^=Y,2\>F4D0W);8G/J;<=O:
MN2`-P*(Y#-J6902GT6K>&G/0,.)R]S3X$SCTRR5DE%MY^V:SQ8_1?%P0IIB]
MO$LP#4D^>1UWXET&.8:*$A/U,](NQXBE6D=,H81+B1@U&P\8-IPI*=64!1E3
M^(@WWM":YPNPDD-L?TO\9-)EDX>%84!?=:4N&$0^SBZ+&KO#.4![*DV4[FJE
M":'X,HK9S?B'17.J!F/D;4X78\)0O(!+;S=E?X/$D)-54AQH)
MPC!B:6$E*HCIY_8+O)UQ'6=.U3;;5C\,!FM\P&?HL43$4@>
MQDPBD9@9,ADGICZHD(A"%B0T$5I@^XXY*0W8'UQ?DS[W"3HK2I5MLT'1!X9+R%8R8B+&&X72>&Y
M@.)3&6$H4_"1.@'S0^21^B:Q(KG.P&].CH*2=BWE)4?2FHM!?L,'O[<<0W5D
M4-Q'CNV#XG9FH6;?.G]_-=VJA^,?.PCL^`Z,9TY1D
M"4K%_W%W;3UNXUCZKP0#[",;XIU\"4#=>@,DJ=IT>@?[%#AE5Y?>JLA:9BYYZ4I-Q3XYMRN@KCU$YF0(-5R,DD?CO,SH/=
M\6B>K-]2?C^OI>O1!IQ21.44ZDL=N*(>IF
M)D^"@%"))(*GG%%I5!?Q5/D`:KE7]Y%(>#G>:6+24Z/*[&%=*X(\_8YCD=(M
MU4,A@@^:]H(\`RFN*;[K!+_?!%3V8[%]6NX6N[-8\CO#I:Y?^NFVR&V(P+E$
MPO"+`(0%U@(7"9!I)@#CD5*,XX/1/VM/C[>&GCZZYO,=4
M-N[J:GO/703B)E0V'5JF&O*L*&-,W,AM#!#[BYBBX;:$#
M](:2*AB^_[F:/[>S[R_))F:UYS5:*-
M-/T>VYW:EZ-FBG&?QN('I5&/!Y\>W[9CO;_CS-[-F5!&_#.)TJC;DB"K"4
MI(8]&H.8BA1PE$+*)%1$4M^N$I:_V1-:]V7P:?']8+/J:_-EL]U_7FP;TT=K
M4T%.QD*A:4!NR)UY46']DX"SYA[O"RVV"9;7_X&F],TV%(>Z9I;;K3)]*.Z_6(V7W(RAUFSN[C]K@+U7J>S%8KO1O=`VM'=7V=5AD3
MTCN\^&:XC:AJT5)YBM<&.Y-4\42M)0*#9\OU]K4-7W,AHQT].V!G)9H51KEV!T!N!KL
M$=S>O0RMK>Q6HGB*5;8-#/RUW_\KUK5$
M8Q^6Z^6WUV]]B++)_10T2A6USO_2S^\A0GFE#!H79,"4R'(V](EZ9P@I!LV]
M1%^*36>/!`.&DA75KL`;4#7D%R;\P
M61-#.XASI,9UKNK#3E&H716-T>=V][HR'DP1Y"LU_]%Y?MP<9HT/HZ1XQ)%6
MUX!%&0B-Q=DV8S]H&]K\,/#+S?VX:U1N=V`N.\KM
MO$F!(!IE40(P8F;XL(J!HAB#C*!<0LB2C,6F1(46!'1U=K(N+S]8:O4XI;[(
M45VS3$SI-3XBDY>%=@\KE[[<7'^H=MEWL!XH'!X8`
MG/E)8.=60O$$77F5.,\O@4>M_+?3NO#KD,2MWM4B.U1J:+44+YXWVY.+MZB(RP81"LH$2B3/0P#$T
M9630V:*9U!>VF4Z;ZO_D6A_'0FN=B%">R2B/,YA\H;[YM*2EP?XZALC"IC8*
MRMSOA4HJ;K\J?VWVS.>-'8`[A>>&.3$1ICDW9"<9BH0)0\=:X\@4B)PA?;.G
M-$JCAEESHH:PBOFZ@PR)'K;IL;%CAFTC[B&GET*&;5`&+!BIF#>+"HFA7-+`
M0A&/DI'VE,Y!Q6"Q:YKLY>-V8ZS/>?SS]YV)61TK.*>13')9UH8Z4MHN?3BH
M(&&4"?')"`,[6S@`)`Q:10[AJ)I*O*H#J,8AEND/M9Y7OLJ8D0UGEAW*.G8@HNF+NK\AK_J[L,NE%*-SF31Q:JA]HVNDJN@5@;<52,)%E14B?>:!G-#[?@F/K8>3=AV,*Y>1%*PW$JISX8Q\QL&7VE;W_;/.__TE:E^F:&
MTOY_L3L&P9^22,+(X!=8:?Q)#E2"I8=^S0G@W2/_0+_6C.N52C6HIN,F#L
MCBE>QM144;N7HGIO]V(^\>=L99Y22J^I[4:5AE-1$VC?TM>@.I=';0[6P_.$
M[BEW(S,2+4ZH#T;#_EBL333,#$>??UNNEUHS%<=IR"Z#P)2,4_N2EK;6"SC:
M-8"63XV,6AW$/AQW+'?WV<6CUV@XM2CS(H*CB:CYDBU/[7J+FZS
M/H^A:(:_(I@G3&*0F$<1*1(M36F(07/#>,0XCKR^.FQQUNU7/X?6J*#Z^/KM
MZV)KMF]1CUSM6E>&U/]G%6B5*%D0>W&\"LQ!0T4++]U;&`HJ+4K
MTFU]HP]SJ"#D,M++"_033.U<2H%*LQCP2.54K,MF)B/0=;SIY1$S1\6^Q=C2@_;*1>JJ#VV<<3;MNJ]I-+0
M8XO5RH3LU_.R\[/GZ_U&Z;E+Z+"TPWUN#.&G>Q)GU0E;V(4#(6#\31/&+GP:
ML[K-`;?1,L%K]7^M$)K.\FXQT]>VR<3H6VZU*0(,$]C3S@BVC.Q;VHLB*,X]9ZQ$?Y*'IA@OMN[=EF(ZM,0]/)^:XJ9'8.:AC8-V,?[`@KB?U*>@F-U[
M%\F>LIS7"ZE7[:(#`3$<61(@)0!3-`
MTC0'*M9_XC+!*1404TX^">>C7-ZC0_Z.05/R8EF8]0[T&D""#NQ>16J2UY\
MLEEI[\S$HO][L9K_OIYK^^FH9]XOA@MKA692G!%F`".;9^HV@(W3]N-IL=N=
MD^2U-WE/K'3-6:P%;6Z[+A@=D?JRC^\0BYX_-,+,[I$#C9AS>;;'#L.[_4Q+
MEL,(H'-L)-5_V.W[\>-N[:IPTTL9ZLOND8X*8U#4W@IM]^;FWAP*XFTQ>U(E
M*B[&[-L1-9S`PV?UK;'9'NB[_N@M"/;N8]Z$GB&%>*H!*%_O*V5=;M?^]*-9@):Z_UFL#+LT("TN_K19K'UHFAM;S%]
M,`NUGK_?/$VLR<5-/6/W406!N=X65E773-DMM-G^//OPV*9PVZ!;3*/K+.$+
M&*\7FO['&AU!G[='%UF1-K=!_\KKA-6.K;UOK/0P)G6DG*H$LLB>H^#'T:QW
M_+[5K]=?86'KI-C.I,`T>9\MY7^G7)BAM11*8&/XMQ34H'E$@$JG7+H^)E"DFD10^4!3;
MH.Q7;U19K%9:.U89>LM,GP!/N7L-(;,-V,Y2"3F*$[_VTF[.Q3+F.U$^3G>E.14M=7]7P&J>^#*#;33B,'T'29(Q
M*1.0$J+]6.VD&2M$`4C23.K[6%+JU>30IA^MO_-01?(C9SW&;-&N[J"*@PHBE2FPK?5Y-VJ%YI8]ZJ8)!_LS%;XLW^17]2_^G-[X;!;OZF
M\`)W;][,RE(L_2_/^CO?M!U;?A1&_U5/$3F@6SND*":_*W-OF!)US[EIV1D^
M$!UH(2?(D>7T=8C=.-$'UGL3VI:$5",2VMH>M7:H48THZEXR:-BUZ_UR;FJ0
MM?(_F0/9CS(T7@TJ>BTI7QZ>F_4^`XY2D+'26R_69BXS&Y=0`F)%M2K4MDY,
M!$]$WG1ACS5*5J2O%YA6FY*TH1AO8`P[/W;D"ZZQB10'C.6@\);6QA
M$T0LS;XPY/3Z_XG^Q^50KFQ8T,F9>+U\/S50W)I>G5JAVB#YU8N%:]ZFA(^+
MOXH?C5KU`ELT'[2;/L.`-)++SMKRRFDH6
MJ)BMZYMD9(X)]W0;F]G6@\(1K+Z#3Q)Z@SL#643:MDR0/U*F9[0E\^.I*(`P
M!N##NKWE>=28EIO)V>9CNP94^R8_S<4:VVISWO,MF_K\K3N0,]>R
MW("O^Y?-@-'-0`_4TX%KF3Z]@KZ&`GXJ_.<>@C!(`LKS')B&'9PYA3*IU`?M1>,U+H[GSU>:O@MNY$N6I,K^8
MA7EPR`>C^N%028$%P-A8(E&D@!)*Z_`4,8X%)W%&_5S[%^S-ZS"&QA9+.^!Q
ML9ZMBBUG.@[+@,^0=BH4(C.V*L@XQB9[8^HY"0+:_DQ2QI'$U#OS&5N]N)C#^U,W,8[>H>#'5\WC3+J=WKCB3S)N>O+*>WM?1X\YQ3JP/W$VJ%ME#
M*OM"7,KQV^YYWSX.M&AO;*$H&W-;.2UE?*KMN!Y131*%SWC(2VA!;9X+C^+@
M2.KO'Z^UV7I>CD0;O?@%NP=ZP3/Y]("S)K5Z.5C]\E>'+XPI$O7ZJ
M"PE"40/ZI+4(X_"XK38-GEZT:="8
M)&0J$?1#1QR/!%N2NO2D6CJ`J@DGI-+:CA2-74'>.L#U>*YNPU03RL-YFN\@
MN+HI5.3&;Y7"%R(%0?('Q5!?&769D*8WP'B:"6WND53J&RF#)MPG*4@2B0A-
M&N2N?T`'WBDB01Q9TEB8PD;2T%
M3UJJ9TF>--C#COWDK_6\YIJ+[E>Z3E-;4A$.F3Q:/>I`;-7*S1VOK74.[
MGBQ+'']/&;/.,F9&QFVCB`:3)@2&A,`8%``2UU+[;
MQ5)HC!+DC)A1;HCH118*T"QE@O*,9S0I[V\WSQ2A
M=B/$!,!##`7K#AXWC9>+=)GC0\>(*.FBC_/,W*[G,U'ESO$^AJ@J#O0'J,<4C'V!$J-\Q"EKG(B3DKIT!B+64<8YS@B\"#EUE[#[!XQ[='I?4/5Z5V70G=&8I[,&XXF:!G6V#05:T6U6MFB7N]H
M/]98F,C_YS+?T6WO(`9-UE48GC7]/WUN?U`(&?='%(**LJ#7?@/(GDAQ5Z$U
MU^OK_O1+R\+E_E%B<6A)JT/XJ:93=,Y4F6Y0*@7)EMJ120(A9`,1@I
M%:4)C3,M0%.19-K$(081`Y#61>5ZW_OAHI)9;#YAN")9XB(1T+\I@M/"Q2+3
MC'43+GQ8+PHB"=#$UDN_:S-G&XH+GO:AQL6GAHO?NE[5^2+F?$UN'R(";\1%
M#[CD)'%1<>L^9"4N-$V]P0B]$9%IKA='3=[6T/LK.NAY""($(C$Y7/+&
M]>*'?3A17+C)/Q>*BQST!KL5U\W5.\5_/BW*=I;%;XOMGV5=N;:L80>1G-6P
M-@8O1(**/#$FOC1C--ED][[8]5T]"[-EZ$5S\'<<5!CU-]UH01_0)QUSJX
MJP0TE8KI,WF?JH$9)MZFCCB1.<42`A4Q4Z^?$:`RA(#(2`HQ122!Y*ZUY[56
M6+VN^Y^F/<2,C34T)L5\R;[/[Q=JJG;P#Z+]\:C9R:!O*)['(@4T4?HTPRPV
MW1T)@'D.(1?(S#2O_/2WCZAVF@/>?W3`,K+\ZB#`J(Q.OWVD?RO`5,/ES0,0
M!+BH9^$-??TW``PQYM:U'0*XK.OHNJ4G:LN47237VS*H$@K]3[1E6J029,L<
MI0+I?[XQON:;LLGM-E@%&X2(/:
M3IT6RK&G*Q#/Y,PY(YZ>S;E[-L#=]>XK9=75G*-E^;56:-'D;_MSQ+?:4I/E`<4=UD):V59#)O$+B+R/#$&>=L^L^$T9_Q87&M=&9V.N#$N!FQVQ5V:MLYM
M@K"DEL;QP`JGV*LQ'OW/ZVRU?/YI"'5W!;5E9]ZK8:3D;J5DR.Z@[8K]WA=8
MKZ)R,N0*!.UNS.MN,)]DW03]9JJ%^=NJ],QZHW$<1GY.4ZJM87D0>322QU7@
M0_^>;YMUL6(F0#`MJ;E;@+'=DN."-,"`GF'0N@?473FQ9VH4WR'S?9S4![2A:5]FJMX+EXN"%+?BC#W;_J1QCB[,XU\XX@K$T&
MCJA,92Y!+#C5XJ4QB#EC6MHJ2:6$"51I611:/\7'>46V3WPGT=QK00S1D,D+
M'48@;K0G=DQ3W&%Y4I0IK)@"'!$(2)92('`"@3X+$IMT0H;EA=V/A-51-XZX
MQCE#_]16V(M^IP.%:?%#4\HVX"I:F;9(4)80`7AJR+)$DIJ,K00\9B1*<;8@=8QN(>J:Z8P>D
MH[-+.@O'F2+#:R:/48SE7"69:+JFF]C6"J:8&=3UK4_+4-)'M9=[P+>XNP/#
M$>6ZMN'BFL(@U(,IDSX;>3#%=?*@N-I%C[HP9;HPK]:BW^_;9*#TX#A-($QE+QD)J!#0^GO'*SN5J,%5PZ/,L\5:ZF-\%@4#+>N&D\#\2BI
MKQ0&W02/KQ0&7;FE*!F/686&CK^N.4AZ$>1T8C3L^%.UD'ZY,_)>S[37!$'C
M.M!Y3-!:HLCEN]R0E=6^\855>LI?)J;N[LOD"KU494T_\8.N
MDL>[T&(?97'!K(U6*;U2+)H3MRN0O8]EEJ!EY4+3S>$MY$I@1^$RI^;[
M.[*C)$S/,4C_^A]^`^-TE^;)W_`L39K-4RVJY)KZE?"K_6"C
MG@9&%>7B&)=-*5`4>$D-R[%(LDDI56I0CDVE7(-"+F,)O(\8PJF3:HOD;W;A23T+E+>SM5N#N4$$/9:5]W;[I6#[2[
MUU<9O.L`6P8[R\/%T2Z3OQZEIF2S:"?AH$8;E1W_:RL%@+?U>6
M)&S(7%A_6G]G@.="M$RG/P,OP3HUS*AY8-&5SKY>!O.87H(F#\-_(SL\`G[Y
MM+`[MP[#4XB6\=NSGSL.?LP=N/VLD$PRO-LNQ;Z
M5;SW7D9E6:4-DOZJS>,=!$R\F*RD)UP7`N0K4,]%_(\[[YP9-_@[5#E=#"\0.1,I3NX0-CQ
M109^RPO(/K.'%Z![0?\_):U&%62>-Z#)&)*D,8*H0T;EVRJ6`TUK\Y*FM%DE
M$\]?O?BSXS[^>A]_/CTA'T8@BE\\].7LNW;]1^>2Z76O/@'(C9X_@_$W>K?7
MZW[_!-C1\QG`F^![_\L9*=3B#E[.9N,,\$(F0UG=RQYC:=\[%W]_`MIU1[LX
M`Q'>/)-D&O*&E<08"6"(MPC#9`@(1FWO]`3OH(=N5HT/6WT',ZD?^'UR$.5Y
MY)0$#&QR.D*J6X!@@F+@I3@&KG]Z,O+L/@(V_NT`_#OQT:_V3YIV>-_=_S,S]$U0,P5A
M>?0X7=)X!KU[;9C73+M[`A^AA`>Q2A,W`7A!@57\XPS0DBHA%&@G\_
M_3RR'6?R^4>%OYQ-<1`["X\\CH>Z
M"^(X&$ZG$7+?*.'KCPM@AD7P3-[?C`/A]/D[\L.'CH_YT/-(BM1OZ<1W4W@6
M^*(8)XLPS$\TH_\B)VPQ.&$&3'9_(CZO3;0'V`N'W()6LZ4(_T)_)0=U\UHAC4!=O<=_//XAS/P<8OEY4TS2/],9<5#@WANSC&?LYO/7H2)
MA_34X\N9F"MGLR>6T70T\2`F#F`;1Q3MBD:EXE*ZN.R32:HC=V%$B3)B28S(<6O\G1HP8F5UY!JY
MIJSYIKFAM,85J@%K5H$1>P\H1/8@1B%EQ[),]CKWIZ[L^"X/P/9K,[BWBBHI
M9-8H*3W"F^BY?%:9QQ=Z#U^T'BIR%+@>?V7[*_R[XHQE_S
M@LQ!1I;;&KGV%AA%%@5&YP75,&59A$J[E(OB-TFQ-[YUF.'B].0J=/V^._)0
ME*(]Y[KAM5O;/5]H8^#%S?QI#:'G[)CK.DB=,3VW>`C9C
M*+V&'H5HA/]U@.NGCX0.N>K&C!H_I)\G&!A-,0#ND8^9S/->R`-H%&/:C*X;$F/RELES
M)IJ$MO/*=L,1PEA=3O.&)]P]``Y1"Y.3XCH
M)3&)O27QKX!(7Y"$`$U(DWW]A&@4R-HH$%G=.@J$VV<4R/N:]DW;2,B]@WWD
M`EBEWI'O\^E#!VE@I5C'&(U=]J)+F"`FT2'ID(TI^0\]KTF-8+GE!X>D)\Y:@F*J[>SO('#K;@;]1=;JB[]0&*+>FWFCA<
ME()K*;ZIR^@!;Z`GD5"FY(!R3=CI!#6D8B
M/TK?-8*JW2A=V3EWY'M(%OT
M@JS2%RSL4>A);\?>$_$J6!=$>T2A?4_J!+O]]"PQ.V%LIC7YN1)&9!T:R/TN
M3VW+_GB@(LT+.*ZE*O505I24KY"2;\EU;+*US:U@*7=YBQ>%ENV&?]I>@KXC
MFS0L(*F/?[GQPP\_N(M0^$A>[?BC)(X6+Q_QIR0DEUYI77@MBE#\A^WZ%T$4
M=?R^ESC(Z?CFN"P,W$OA=UW0#'7G/78DB*A!H@@5YS;X2*NE[=[$T+TVMNCUYSTVON8Z*.7G.7JRNK>F@@2KUUU!/J&3E5S9*^
MUXA&XQ[2K'R`P@Y'3Z7:E=^H.2F%MA^$L:MP8$(NTX]2;2NJ\XBQ$8,0#6W71TX+]/"3
M:]8ZM%_`'0)1$HT0"47%L(3`<2.2M>7Z2=87W?9?0.P.4;K&((E)IC=^S`]B
MMX]:E6.7O^97FE?]2+,:7U$4XBF*42B1%.(Z+2-GI;F:>T].#O+XMSOFH\_Y)Z0IZ7&GR*/G3GO3?$!7",#!!J1VE2=IVE"ZD;*I![JKSX:];UEY=8#XEKQS[M*
M3:X'Q+7B'YJ?W9BG:Q':9KEA%(-_$CN,$8UIRQ?X\F+:>&4',&A`6_VK%L-S
MO,.E/+!''CAF;J!4D^JVE:7>$0H5"U.)I&2KH]")-0E#K2SQCB!S\%P0:I($
M7\$&%#>DK+5#_?9#^NTJ]=G>']6IL]Y@OP$JU'&H+_5$ZK77FGZ0JXG_1ZFW
M9F[^7%1J%Q]MM(5/(RW@B2,'ZCO?DC?7:`NW/NC.O7=&VR#)%H+K+[$@^?2
M^#B%TJ^6]*,[YQI3CS]7FM329B7)HI$IHP?CY-?PML!^^\8B)18E%B46)18E
M%B46)=8A:U)4L_M3+XAM;Y5#Z)%I^8=GE6G[U,RC,Z]2B8IDN(^N@WRGRLV,N1T$2
MGIZLZ=?DH+YGAUD3'S#KX>-,UDG;[DS>$82MV^[PQVG-0JD*<6&(!_[
MC*V4(?=4S?@:];$=.(#T''_(/6$PNQR?0G7TAA]UQN65_3+$?L4,KB/SY9L"
M8:%4Z.0W(U"E@BQD=-E"H16VEJ;1,
MVU(#+FLW75@"J`E!B-6(1EN'!K;%T0"U0[!`Q>)0+X/'IT#1M:I96%?BG)\1Y6J!LJMC!D^MYX`Z!D>TZP![$*,R2L%PO
MS('-SH]"=$H"&,\&K""]Q,%SN3X(\`@A
MZ"=AB##DGFO?X=%B%^$A\)-XN$58^"PLB6L5.G+52&*#-(FMA"2V_&RIO/RJ
M_+2W4KZFT^Y]6IK$1I/8:!);N4/2)+:*8I`FL=$D-IK$5@$6;FS:#ZK]=->Y,TC7)
M94LI)+1>2&BDM:R2!V-H+*B5;;45PG'7#UDG^:G$H,$:LD(=8:NBIH7]'6@;;>+5.
M.J:R9#R.C1=KLNFK+-F.*7UI1DJMI*^">_DYIR:\W>O4"9Y-TJ==$IE
M*7FD73LE6WT%#WR6M=`ET[&(Y"](#\R'U$';\?#-%%$$779+51Y`[/*.J,%]OQ+U&](Q;7I)N2
MZ<>-3`RGU'8=R,RV16>.7#2J.*.'X2_KM-J:*`B*Q*@G[`(ZLA'`S>VPF`X_QOSF?RX)W%1
M)/RDJ3&*99J,P+,6HZA\FS%955-$0\8:BB@HF(<061&7T5'.:G?"X#7"IO2_
MR"%C3Z2O.T@MSE@FCZE[N%QM+ZV(4.D+7\3K-7I$?H)(TLP]!@D_E&-L@#ETI+[+W=2CR7-OCN'H3:!U(Q!F`&/"GYX\8;@!B/7M1(A7GV^[VXZV>_KV
MOG0(*.S:%A*CAVWVUU]FE5Y@P,8@$+AN;V8,2%59F5GYJJQ,.U-;A#ZQ(`PJ
MP-(./.G/R+T=G)]Y0V[[C2KB,C#E,XS9$UJ1/CP;4G_"7+3)*_P&-=[`I`BX12Q]BHQUV:>?BJO&(*3#>]=SO+L9N8ML8.,0>#.9O4(>[]GP
M'C\CPP.'P(\P2`!DX0:QX(L1^!=XGPUFYWYV@*B+0+E&4]#=N!R7/A+@EX!K
M"61-$GCC$,PYFJZ",+Z5T,&"5_T,57Q#X2#Y`7`7Q2_"_)&/O^-WL.GNDDTS
MY79A!1&'6P',=P!P0,-'"ILY&36;'RF%0R"L\7>"?'Z,OFP06%[\9`Y\O/`_
MIKC)`;>KP13T(V`
M:^(-_HT284'ZC&T&5'S@IO\\7DJX%3LQNT\B)V0*EE`X/\MX/B=%4^<9..79
M[N%\'+O2N4T`K#9@+L6B`N%]CA%ATU#$VCC"+9OGHO.SA`NS;0&(MPF*>P5(
MK["QDNXCI`Q;V/`W*1=;`?C7*&SG]K^0M3"^/4QV"`(//C]*UJ'/A/U0X3"?
MGPWP^H][)S:Z/^+;')@)\(3K2OF0\V1.$F2L!"8S@#HC*)PY+\0C`G+@&Y!X
M\:;(R00N]`5=@!7S).#\RY4(!QJ'PTW-MV_"]2@,A!4EYK2!('P&SHP,9!JN
MS(M"T#8_N6`#0YX&?$O`$RG^^3].X`$(:S$U+\R>DP\HA]3(M-B]#:1'T#E#
MY/DAAH-'!;FZ"[U3]HO63HIZ;@]XC_(1:%Y\#
M*KA!+/UC[>#3@()IY6%C+,9"%X??O:Q:)-8#T*13IUW6U+K
M)^)9\R`J\&40J)[_$T;*3*Q$P,\MPL\)9>[5*%,?=4*ZN'G='LSMIMP222S,
M45HN*JFI3WE-JJG'8!`<843IA`OC1&Q.(Z"5+714JALR%14LNG41['2"XTRX
M=DD-*#X#1TGJQ<4_Y48%.1H/NVF4_L4`P7P\X=(=^A16U:7BOY>N)71D7ES)XL(!3Z'GSXJ)G_0;K8;6:YA*K5[O*D;'Z"F6
MT>DH#:O?T+2VI?>:)8B?)$@`E5#BN$D.2N&-AEP`V6#9X+8!&U((E:$7A,)%
M!;$"_E44))Z;'1NH_(D)!:.1BY@`1HA]@8"@+>,SX-L71
M';P,UAE(XMBU2&3B&:
M5JLV\T-*1P'&
M6B_!I4+C]VK]U&MVZVN@VUSD\E_K`L*UO&
M:KA>=X;\S?7C^/E_>PX6"_P()CL>YURY-Q2\>+Z5+)^;9UV^A>/SO,.>'J\\
MK5):S\^J=K_T)0?'@Y2P?K#TM1PW[G!2'HR!+B]BM84,R%FUW7#:O+3FS^N6Y^U5G?A
M@'B_:U[K#W7`
MD\7H$$\\B2.5)(W]\GAB%B$G*P+DG&THX\$K.\1X.P7QV/+@O_<55>
M8E:SG,";2RQ,)%06)>,AE+P$FH+EKJ2!#/1"L&BW.&5.(CA9,`-M_0&G"\88
MQ23\S)K[.!`@_`>'@8DX_17)#`=B@_K_L.;HOW&)"FX!4;V%1P
M*YX4BF`W=]3BYW*YMLBQ-LD=,8K(T@>$*7\4D\SP38QV?G:%@G?N-`;HPH:^
MAX*2=&>N/6'#@`S0!:4!L#1L5[&4Y#0!Z'/SAIR*W?[&@\7?T%N>I]
M)A.P*B;1)._^70AQ+F+,FZH"$>8&\@H'=D,]4,$/J1X`D5*4(CCVQ-Y*AU-!7,)=EFU/R[:;YL9EVU<7>M_)UP>9=E^%S/=8(/)DZSK*XI:;
M,6RV%#,G#MY%O>(#EOGY^H4P^(NN/8M^6L
MEO/GJK#$6KOVV&[:IYQ:CB9Z2ZMW-BI-M;D%>&7IH%;:>\-E*=-J5!I:_2#D
M/85R("(FMQK^3158$*4@7U_=7-Y>7GWYN\@68`_T@J0.>M6DX*+_V?MZ>]FQ
M/BG6I\N/\"">-V&N)1_N@RTM%[X^17UJH0[%;^'_EFLJO2@5DDQ:\#1K-)5^E&:%
M)-8;S8K%ZF)O/A1O'/Y,_$4IA:91KF'V'$;?(DN3F,)KF)C/O3AA@O,E"1)O
M4=$,_[@2>68\EV=IJ3*-I+2@>GE&A1T$WE!<4>/I0)B5LCQ_1^2C
ML.5VP"ISW'>"X&"&"5=W/#L/2\7)[)(<)?#SO_"?U,+_Q![`O.^R!Q8DQ0!EE+>8
M*&_%,(PM()%!WA(&>2M-4SL()4\AEP1+OF(@PQV16P_D[6E*GY)E;#1!#-6E
M&"J0\`?,V&A4=/4X,S;*:4!E5Q3;\52B:M6I6:*J75B4HKLZ*:S:.4
M5F603>(4*#ZXD+;3/J216E'K4AJ=JC32CZ0UH\QU+4U2BLQUE;FNQZ)+RQ$%
M788&F?]Z@J'1I7?O9$[L#OE&IEG*G%A)K.)R8@O.0^RS8&@[A)<5Y&UJ[0FO
MOGY^EM4@\^G0SG4B&]A&YYKWPNIJ$6-KUZ-QVS(
M>YD1+)>M3&R'UZ9,BJQ51"7-[#CF_(R?QR3-,YY'04D2!-VT\/3+=5P7VB)B
M>>_9=S;*/7KE?J18)&%ZSX86EJZ/!Q,M`4/JN[;327K.6&'HLT$4TM&M)P8+
M.HAF?W8U[GH3-F0%E>PWZ[U>N]=I*MTN#&4T-56!;6,JG;[:[FC-3KO9:JQK
MTZJ;IO&L4>M>T+&DE/07S_7F>X`6V;*S;C5UM6:TE);:[RNDAL:XV:TFHU
M+:MA:3VMU0;4U5_H*;Q0$WKE&N;7.U?@V!TE[2GC]I/7CNT&NZXY;-8M[$NJ
M*HU&NP/KK5M*JVMB7>9ZI]?2^V:GW7^IYO#$]N^8JX"[E%3CC+\1HE8D(2_+
M^ET46_BW,K8GS)G%8NMB7N1F]NKSC^)]:5+
M;JP_+[]\O"'7GZPO-UPJ;%"!>&Y9VDO+6I==_^*ZOE-RARWWX`4@K2+:N`QS
MW(#BW)&1QLP15(D5YE+QU4:6BB_$[MV=3^^P\PL(ZGJMF3V6I.8'
M6#X[B,L;B@Z._XDKO,8-#01PO%,@[QK`P2139,B**.'*.]CP;[VDE9GX:&,I
M[KC3`9]HE)04Y94MGS]$G_#Z`!]/P(45X`G'<>*K!]B9+-_C)9X[UUJ'XK;-NBDN@X9WET"D\.81
M^*/H(A@/!L-FZFS(Z__',`-UD`8PQOVL.3*PHS,O%(K-UL1*."UX;T&<
M$F!+6D7DB/+*ZIU[Y/";58Q-8V$NFMF)3AV,BTCL2PIHY[(O>&/Q30X7PK&P
M0+[DVJH59U8S;I/%P>=N1X@K$$IR)R*['7&Q&]_8,LL[C4[]R`70_@:YU>[;O!\WO$;)BH`]@,,*9%P?$A8MVW3
MI:BKUY)%+?A11GHVG6P:3'H^BXB-7"P$1]9,F85+MKXWH3UOS!.TW.Q.?T<5
MLUS-'?`/AY2.QQL=\&-836$@.]TP.>"/O414=CQK[J(8+_@Y17=V^K^A;-YN
M)VQQ_+_+#;GT>'T>$5I%*_IFU'8`EECZOG)Y+RB34W"*#NSA==+DDR)JU2EYY$B%55)$JJFD6G.,ME='^J=NLFT/N)ZIL!9QG@XC28`_)R5;R#G?@FA]8?
MDD0-K79Q8P7I)_7B=WX6SP^UDU-ZS`UR1#O+>\_A!^O>RV?H=L#?X!/R489;(B(*M"A-AS4D@
M?]K6-0^1?6$/`#0U+F$21I`D!O!QU(D4G2\P,XJP?C-J*
M9!J,08K2FOD%"G:/:W@ZL[Q3)=)!PWO?B^[N5Z4595\M>[VV_O48LB5OUEKK
MWX1_`]&GF%WZ`"2ODDN76-%=Q+-4,2L$Y3?R"<5.NW$[Z^?KKBSG)?R+,VH0
M#?X-6S"F8)GX:?K=Q-DSAP.;6V*X;
M'^2YKK7?3!
M[-.I[STEFU'5?DOF"/%64X(=SK45LYH-'8L)P-#4]D,V9%.N&5*T
M@"_,'M@H@D=S6`!1[U+EKPA>$7#Q7LBK"9=
M_@TFGI58+WU+,_2R15S%B[A,%X'FX)R*ZEU=7N
MQ=9>KHYB:5W-Y&$W\A-6342Y3[&9.P7N7#(VSYVC@$2&^PWFCY4E\%>#0#NXYGW,M@U)K+I,T1W7/!<>>$'C`R]I7W'#;B0:4T`SK.
M[ZOBM8&7U9?`.)\'*R37JOIO%?BW5O]-/%.K&G4N;1;'7]`6I>-(T%XW=!I2
M+DI7"J`(YFDW9D^"]7(4
MY!HPI3M202BM9\^BB@/I-:#A(]X>`26',Z.6X[FKB09(Y3CR4Q"`89;'K
M7EQ:FM_=O)BWX$:Y+0`[8(Z/D+$2;'*]]&`[Z5KB3&.M]MO<5ZAZI_;,CC?(
M4F"X=D2D"L;#9WPZ`4L2)S)A0(9[R`51+I)8$:DN(I_O[1?\%X'69U;)@C$"
M@^$^%P75UYDG7$DF&!*4AA?,VH)>3LT5_`HO=8@^H+#:-9X6RC!XW,'K0:EY
M/0(>9(D]EHFJQ`P3=+E=LP3NLLUI4C:9T!$3%H4]#F/QG2Y8D);GA2?4SC&!
M`GLH`P/I-:>DGT.JJZG-N$)/\3H3($IXWBVPOQ-80@X>N,0"!*HHF(V1PP,WRWD3:99_Z^$KE+
M#MY[SB?:X7&&S-.4>9HR3[-DN)-YFC)/,V^B8HF!$3]%F-+8=2,?8M\!G1%1
M+6%)>ZZ2Y,+L-A-D9[DQQ2>HU*IJ(_ND9'_^NOQI;8N=_\[2;7:RW"W3.`I+
MKP"^T3?A&U4FDIXB:W`V.`["EC2G%!0DGGCY=HB5&S`F_$Z4Y)ND]AZU9:W:
M_&VIA%/Q!ZD$#[/9#\\@:E5=SA=:U?CMT.@Y.257*M(O0[2VFAU:Q\(.I,.K&N.`.*C/&K<6RJ&N+!F91>L"N/4DV4PN5
M]6#^"Z97!Y@:.K`=3`2OD`&%@7D*MC?F$8NB;:8=<=;A#QBV@T\DM0F61HNUJM%=\_:#QL4>)RJO5G:?127?:5`VPM_MV0NT+N29YI1;35.
M@>1[M=W>+LW^Y(:;%&9[8>X/3;TLK/V[%&*%"K'3R&$MI0'6]_PQ95)J[4UJ
M::6IQ2NE5I%22Z\V2T/IHJ16/@YWZD=D1Q-+/H(ACS<4&YAZ],Y"YUE,XM"EQ;%`2V*N;F.
MY41ZAY)]61[LB%SGJHO)5)"2#GED2#B%C7=$_H=,!3F,4:IO4;>G/!:I=$(V
M"=^=XLGI+@6;S/HX#MEU&J=G4G:]FMY:U3R)F)G,^I#"[-GYJ5J:G%QY?EIL
MUD=#IMW*K(\3D5JE20600JM8K]$\B4"!3/HXLJCQ$0QYO$%7F?2Q;T&JER:U
M6X8L]I7S<1(DESD?,N=#&A0',"@6BR`>HNV3%?>;7=I1%NL+^I1W?_K5J!ID
M($K&\#YKOQJM.HEKR/#67+QS6>3Z=.C=N3##0G_%H8>-Q'SJ\!92H<=[&/(V
M>*+[Z'P/V=M[&M#X'2SS3Y_P1_'B`!N\I9/$7:,?XQ)=Q!8EL.(6C`B95FW%
MC0QY\\)J77PJ>R/"Y44?U84.C++ZX]NK/YJR=5:A#^PM5^S#I9N(H@!;K0[I
M-,PULRNZQ-7;$J5V:9K*OD.[Q%U9^P[)ZG[.4>7H%2?P9"9L288OY(E;Q!;V%5QLN](9(C@*R+;!?-K
MIIX/O\DLCV3X9DMF>;QG\`Z2A%+*A),C\,EE8$(B88,\&'7U6F0BS"'#5'M/
MH"GA583]Y:MM<7VSC%M?YDD>">[*FB=96O%VXE'_6WX%!)W3Q9!;#/
M27S,D;IT:Y3D@N(R1*B55G,+D5>>2XLRQ/=24$VMU#7U,`26`=L"J*G7C^7L
MKY1G1R\H)Y%G,LWEF4A]M6=]I9]&!4`IR^92\^I][!R^9NZ,PJY#%71("G9L1*U!.+(%.?`1@P
M$F%8$,#]=^0.>7&`1Q;>DT$4,)OGA!4I)@?N97SY<-RZFDQ+
M1,Y+-%]Y=KL3DO;4;J`Y+0"08Q#1!LO'@'_+^H4R.H#6?4!;8MSZ=>\
MNX-2A*C;D>#)$-T&WMI+X!:(H-UUW"J
MNX:S]T3](0MR!M:USX:OA5MRO.3X@CE^YW!^I1.;8;NJTD/:@2=],+HCVRF]
M'+FE_D0*C;((#>ONSJ=W=EC^W7@)+,[:[SO[+ER
MR)72N3$?+MUGT;2B$YH/+*^/`^)#*ZTM6.I?&$8];1YZ3SOR727?G7C27COI
M&/$_D3/+YYN0-#NV0"OF0!D/;SK5+S#UX30:"93W!#U=7DE2732]JLDT3#FD
M'/(`%LJ6JE:VD#X.G7H2K="E2GVU"54UI$:50\HA]Z-1R]K8/#FOEEIV/V+W
M0T.V"7X/ZG49YVM:5=OB#K#4N7)(.>31>;$=#!?$G4.P4FEY+NU;JM5FTV):1^5@ON]17=^&M>
M%`:A[6*QKBJYO:^MQ\HL5U"X]0Q+%,WI`3FN>.U87^M56LJ"3WRJ]:J
M:@:O`&?#J`N]"!=>QQ=;55U_966X/=*DN[IM6$7T'TL[DN7KNV4+3.N\>]/^K>_)XC`;JQW9
M;6PKW,EN8V_'G>PV=ABQ6-;D$='0A27UX1"0?*.QQ+NG)WXAK"3A.*,N[UL7
M2O##-`%9]+[KIC?J1T*V41_@=.[@G/AU2]D!'9.Q[D^6!T$"J
ME/WWKS2V,02EHBFGP%I.ZE;=.!(Q)JGY,C5-_5@ZP1V+`V0_D0%UZ9B%H*T`
MBO](;74X;04+EWKIU"19\UB:($JRY>=4M*#IP:\YUFV4#S/0ZGR0JFL`+R`=-D!(U-3:M=\&4E']6+W\G8
M\P$@AU``BF&&2C)<4"6B3QA&*KW()T-O,DG;54[L&:CT=+(1&
MIU2!%\)[#'U2']B8_]"J_88C\O0=[&P-*/I)PR0HZO(?'#N`$7P;B'8&6`@(+`'+G>T&`
MJYQ2-["Y11*WAP0\>N,QY7\GLWX#0\GGP,+:)D&R),1O+@>,)XX]B"0PK5;3
M*ME#CPRPCN\R%[M\PVQ=4;/L[NF"!4FS"Z8\*^?KH`$K]IA2'I"YQN2
M?D>;YQ5WI(\O[$ZI+V*H)ZI82G).O@P16KU:D^4;3NX8=BFIM6K+/!*A):GY
M(C7U:E,_$FH>_*B]X$H;X8HR&_!O/?LV*:P1K#Z$YD>L\4'FB)];CJ,P@N_2
MX\OPWO>BN_OT`/,M-2X*2CRXX0?3P=$D&I`@!ICG%3!Q4/^M>E,5Q]U_13#;
MF`&EQ)'Q#>7E3C)Z&C7UP\_?DW/R2SS\Q$/GK_2!NA$E'6]$*W'%$C?"PV5^
M0RHW)S^:8N*]^,3:\8;\SZ!*KFT_9$,VA'/15R*^:J66?D`J_
M:LUZ\@U".V;!$#`^@[F"9+?65%4\C$&P"N[$*5+]@3HS\3V?B3YA0@76GPER
M*!BM!-;>P^T`!KUDQ]#PN^(+D!UT`UCMY5B'CPG,@-@9`+0\;8(\$P?IXE.B"2JL"@SY[-\WR\"89.-*(DR\G(BZ>8F2C0%D;.,X(+Y$!A
M-EF-`,SH8#ZF3GB89Y/B`V!8/MMZR?:W$7O`3__UMRA0[FQ[^O=.+L_%3
M%P17N.9;V#ZWL`D]'RAR.9G:S$=\!M;$B^+M`#-\I>-__$(]Y\=USZQKI@+_
MIVIJ3?EGK:8V?]S<=G_HC<8/Y+A:0Z_]J/U"1G3()K83_.,7I?$+8:-__,)&
M/^HMLUG[T;:Z[:9E6$JC:W050]-TI5TWNTI3ZZKU1DNUC%;]AXJ#1"X34[/`
M,X![?GR[Z?[RA]8RA3K-$+6CYY"N=VC/^Y-7XYAZ8_9;Z
MDRX=A+`_>(K,I7N+:4^?`5_WP97_B09!(_UNN]VN*_VN:BB&83255J.G
M*J;>LKIJK=G3=160IZFKL)?#VK8+G$=7BF
M:2IMK5%36JVF934LK:>UVHB#52BH-XQ%!EH*_/SZDMUW`Y8,>/@\@-S&T'%^
ME^)EKZ_Q72]$:])`$I"*`N`JEE)%8*79TDS5;)J*IINZ8O3,CM+J]DRET:P!
M5NI-HV;U`"LK&4,UU-HB6G:XYM5[2W`8;MEK/^5"$'<=T(;`C=:#S1S?].^NKV]^LSMX:7F;__JRZW2MSY??OI7;/ZNL-8M3%[D
M+@7:4ETO&H3CR#D_2Y"SJ04_![&V`N)E!KP89Y,UW(+-8N?!/S\;Q?`3.P8?
M[(VQ`[9;P.V2`>:2PC^\X"&:GF`E#7A:I`-RC`;G9\P%QD#;*+:)L+>C2VI8@1)Q^BUS7I',;B6ZM2[2KNA=I5N`UXVFB!+.A;LF95RQ-#U9V)D
M_3)6B]CK6,J`2.%(ZS,7*`M:W1+%%P\L3#5S0VOE%>N91\9RS67YO"PG'ZH]
MRYZ)A[<>;7\4JR_`-/.%'WOI7O-4Z.]QS_]\!-K5%LZ>MUL!8
M;BC-;JNA@)%L*/!/1^GVV]VNU:AUNSUM-4/]@&WY0\1IT(2N&D:&VGUCYQFC
M`FSA#/V9$-TEUU*9A
MU6%K&MW#Z[($*>BBGY^E*"FQ"LM#3&@",&&@B3`\@_H"!2UH+7Q@1*>@AAC_
M'NOLBCL&0>C;R#:*@VIH0L-[#Q0(-:?*C
M#4HP))X(%S@4&!?&`/W&Z_4N>_4A"V!.ER\%-L#YV1W(6A]TXPQ#)>*^1/!W
M?B,E0M#0YW_$X,"(/E`'AADA#+R"L"_BGZB8X[@:S%T1UV5$S.8B&R>=%1YX
M]##"D'_N_&P0,6?$PVX((YOP*RQ\JU;(&-:";ZCU9%B^?KQS`I///1J/K=:2
M)W&T<>2#`,$8[=SZ*V`"X+CG9WP"_D*5?.+S!SP@ER/JICK]M4)@0:P/[^DH
MFM&;4FR!^ZG5PTXR&TFOI
MC7:G507+N$[*@"KCCYA2`WW[%CH75XY"_9N)'Q^L;_'
MU.>Q,?N)`J,-'7@=8\]X"TWLYB0PG.Q8'F"##25*123>^JA;R(%T@)L%(#7_
M]00I$C3SB.>3]7-KJL-'?)Z8TWEUYQT+9P
MX^;Y&SOY^CU-NV4.^NJ]>Y#RSIS;Y_E^DW/<7"[P:R8J`/;##RF1&K#)A:%5TX@K0PM9"$ON![UV]@TRVY783CG!D--118GVTZVOF5E*2]ODG.]N+NVV%&+I7K5O=R/N[.J:N:%:.83.H72;GS7?7.Z-94"RE/MGNZ;7%KIRBE\2EZ
MHI.!%_EWIZDQ=B$4=Z@Z&I56L^"&\>];)N_>EPP%B6Q)+'V?&9:K!&KO=&(Y>T03]-T+4<4?1D:-*-BMF1D
MO4`F.$"$=BFAU8IA%M(,Y!V9M.6AI6H6TMCRH.9MX40N0"6LTN#U%OYON76B
M%V4V)),6/,T:ZT0_2E-2$DL2ZR2)M;9BU/,+,?N\VC)_J6;U!?2/V'TGJ:OQ
MB5\S/F2%D-4%'NJ-Q9NS&RUJH?!#7+GGFOK\$N2N;P35#$NM]_L=Q6HVVG@A
ML:6TFMV&4N^IAMJTS*9I]C>Y$;3BJLKJJR&;^@<1_O'EZK9'M+AMU1,LSH#1
M>M;7+Y=?/MZ0Z]Y79^YHN+Q^]!A?>26VN/-Z?I8KDI562)NKCN9%81#:KNBA
MM=AKJ7I^UF4.GP>`>/V\66VN\[,5\TZ=*!!W*,=C.@SQ]Q%.A1?[IEX('(*7
MNL0KV2#K@,W=X@Q1($7^3,QU?B;N<59)=]4,"7:26DWYB>(QXOI.E1A^&R\?
M!Z*`%7]YA&",/7_"*Q;D'^(7/O'6V&3JN?Q^&BQVP&G/+ZKE,&SS:V)$WA)+
MU*6\)5:":0]Q2ZS"&_!-PR7B45X@*_&0$@E'@`1Y@>Q5J#C6^Q&%">BEG:3D
M7;(RB)R"I9B\2U82U,F[9+N5E>5,X?Q"L6@>UEC+5:O#FH)S#K'HX1R0#];O
MSPDG3\J+/"E7\2:!N05X\J3\2$Y7]8I:/Y+L=$G+]=C#NVJ-(Z'E*>K:,FC6
M[XNAZKE0+X\"GY\M!JL_M$]4P9;L%H59T5L-J50+)/P!L_#Q@O>1"%])OZ7T
M,]5"FF.]TVMZZ6%D=@+*M8W"CU;/S\3AH=0[>]`[ZC9A%:EURBRUU-J1R"Q)
MO6744XWCH)Z\M[=W/GX);_(JF"3621'K**S:3CYN@NEM^4#*^1G6\@?(>!;<
MAXZ,JNPGJE*OR:C*B5I(0-R6M'"/F7XM[4@N8LK+>_**4=GM24DL2:R3)-:[
M.0_>19YJ#NCC5:'IIU(7,$3DUP=.0
M59V/D&KJD621KJVW].)1^,)Q\8HXT8*:V6/QFN^4B#;`)>,\DDD
M;+QK9764XXOZ%B:%97441U9'D=51#HDZ61UEM[*RG"=D-\*_3-U/[DJN`H(E2(8^4
ML""(\)+WKVI5JY.!B-W@%?#_4-]3AEXTA8\C.H`9TCKQ)+RW0UXB>NBY#]0/
M&2#I_(RYH9>K[NU%_GSQ$C8F0WC89BZ^-V)"0_(RXQ,:5C,"6?S]9ZX+`JU5
M`*WM.`YJ$"!/.1R-1G0WC$)U[/YDX(!<2RN*X9
M5L?&)?'8+MX:PA$H_("UQ7VZH.H7HL96/6K56:^9:3>P)!QMB/E@U[968Z2,\B9TNKGG]^:2RD"4*
M"_6>J#]D`;WFNV('R-<6D%]OJS5-TQM*L]MJ*$:K;BCP3T?I]MO=KM6H=;L]
M;76/BA]3ZO\04N.7/UI50]V`&KO#RT*?"UX(@ST`Z;#TX:W]A+3[2@%Y0^8P
M#@9O;FV-4!QS4(I@:ZM;:S;ZAJ'T6F8?^V%T%4M7=<6RVFU+:_746M,$S!JH
M@NI+>5O+B8$W+&H)GPY>WAV#17)<1_[PWHY1?3465S-O4"D`9?``J0BV[#01
M:^V.HIDM0S%Z]99BZKVNTM(TK6NT#+UNM'@SD>=X:]46F+"01:_OK9(DU!2`
MF7['JAN&V0!4J)IB6%I':;>[#:6G]WNZUNS4:F8-,*/67[%C,1UEM:J)%S&_
M4I"'@#O4N*)#3Q]D8DAYRYYKSV'#V8ZZR5B:5=?U3D\QM4Y3,>J6JEA]D$MF
MO=UJ=*U^S]2M7723V8@';A-C.4YBV+$4;+!2.-SN-
M6M^TZNJZ3EB&J2YVPMK-:N
ME->^3%%U?G87L1%N(6\^&X4ZJB)XW>FEA4LI#8M^82!/8S
M;#WX%EL]90Q";K#B)T]#:GOPGX6&6WWKIIU]QHY;Z(RGK>]`M/P5@500]J=/
M'2XD04B-05:R%C4"&!TR_6=]#_
MH!\5F$H9X!^8:A@D.[GINA7W`0K`;T-!\AB2HM/O*,R1Y9>`\\,$:VY%PV
M3546O#ZQ_9^@<7EQ^PA]]JGM@XT`RF#$0(V#-Q\@+`.:,:L=PK8';@IY&[6X
M"]O4]Q[8"*9+41QWI[.G4Y#]F>T!3_X_>U?;FSBRK+\CY3^TVV,1@""0$,W79EI-U`_-)=
M3U5U5755-1D[S'3@68,)C?F+@P7.32-`[DLU?LCLH>1YPNX*$AMJCD\LF:EP
M3(6%89N`QN'\WXBG*#(6YBT?L[A.!725M,7VVSRR4>5GP_TB+BZIU#>VJJ:KF9==L\T!#G5E8?]ZJRK\S!XKN
M,/JE`,/LI-S%AMJ/IN?*=/$HQT033"F7'ML1XN>UZI#$ISR>5."8
MQ^5L90NRE5\G8>QO.Q+2AN5/F!)QQ%MES%J0,%NX%%C(>X6\5RGS7DLNMZG=
MCY)-2L3L_PWV10018#GD!LP"085*T!SG3,6LG=D!/ZF09_Z!O"9]$7*:Q6CV
ML)(,&_YF6=!6*$=.$>0HP6R47VE(TD9"P/XU<>83FJHTY(1D#"<>'4+#-PE'?130?63+(>F"V@N)=&EJ=\&T:6#::-I0!244>&4D2P=D^$\YH.S\7MT
M6^"]O*DH*5@'-?&U;\'`DMRT
MK\;EUKPS06E67#'L?JW:F/;P//Y*"W8_V/VPVL)J*SY8[$^5;5#/E>GC
MD*_.+FP]$Q1U22-98B;'Q"V)/3SM+4VF73O!>LXQ3,7+%%TD''#):?-96C
MI`UOJXK$-(@Z9$*)[9#=!-!=--VK2Z5Q+=)((FBE.%
M0>$5A886$5#*R#+JSZE@OK5Q*B%6_%7-=%6/O4#5$V3B$O+O]
M0*M6TR[317)66+]T*8T-``L2$C=,
M2+PC$Y_R`^M:D'PH\"-%)X(<4B3F7OOT)%WP)H[C36A518>>R\7R)[2J83:*
MXT\W!8!76F5JTFU/07;/=`K1IU^7.F8?[)%%("`-NP>*?_O5[%-0>
M,9Y7E]_)RAX5#I8Z^B@-HP-R;!R4HOD^`L['C_<
MH>=U"'6>DV'1"BV2(SV6]#H*(##H1=;S'6W:S/[@?
M84J"^(^]":]="[K/A-I.T:^,
M2ZMK+1,DB(=X^N=K2GQ\3HLTN2,!P=0>=!*%A-[[P_`7
M>]*M[SKVRTS9;$^614(HK8YI6%:MV=&8D%Q:G5K;ZC9KIFEI]:[1:'8O=48(
MY?1/KBJGFG+)^YJZ6OW>[052K=S/!4PHE-8X9.KUE
MAT_>&ZJV9JCILO/?*`B=X4MFI?K(X+-C9JPX&_+L!.*`>Y1N-"!H@E^H[[I5
M1,83UW\A!#T0CPP=WC8NF!]D?%+)GF2V'[DA35*7,SW
MB]-WQ2ZKSTM%V9>_G'"$)M0?1':8'=HYVF#03*#\V-<1MRD/!7%W_%'1;%_'?HHI-@+^,!1,.5Z-/0I+[C/
M-OX88_HS;JG'W\+FC;)%K\@?HDG$IA`?_9P^A@^`#9??$!#ZY-CIFL,G?1^Q
M"2>#2>
M[_J/#J,'&K*EQ(F7C1?D\$%@;H!4T:^1PY[,*(#\B%%A1I,I=(P"[.I'QBH4
MN^X+"D:,#.S_#X3=0F+*I%>B>")L=B0F"YO>&'O1$-MAK+#.4S-J<7QA_
M1USQ8*;>./8H!A_Q4GJF"+E68J*!VDP*WDRZ.?(ZTQ]Q)VPQ92S%IWI__9]N0K24((ONMVWOV")L1
M!4\"YA0^^'1`:.PQVL3E6R`V&__L\P0/!NGGJ6^I*LIOZV5H*2(TO:>N_K8V
M&68YJC6]15][QUZ^AM?":_?ZVD.E.YY=>VCLN"YWFCZ]I7L%27C='YDJ]'7:.@'KS4>V0S%($,NY@=2\_9"LT_J)^L)/A>9!1
MKH4,E%-T#(,6:\^E%?R=^21C'6D5!$/\^4K4H4M
M18)Z+"`"$`&(`$0`XZ`(QD%KGA$.QH"0CP0B`!&`"$`$F8@`QD#Y&DU\B_G%0"WHT'#ODX%(\;6E5K
M[M"<0Q@V!^WVP>'4JXK:!.#+!SS8,B4$W6A4=160+R'R`'H)02^,N$NQXW+E
M4\+>FW5I'OS"%KL(QNHZ>"\E1%VM-A11SJ8$X,&V\+3QF"?!?0;Z+?\4F"KE@Y)8B4$'D`O
M(>A,V@T+@"\?\+"VEQ#THDB[B-LLD>?8S@2[L,$"B@P46=[)KFH1>HL`["#K
M`#K(.L`.L@Z@%T?6)=E:&8]]+]Y1F5`R))3RY+#0MW^^GARX+3FXXG4(LY<1
M>*O1`-C+!WL=0"\?Z%;5T*!6L83`@_-20M"+(NT"[JYT"'6>DA+"#L5)"T`T+>FF4$/8SU1#%1/T$CSJ;+KVW,0@/?HML"B>5,1P`*P`"P`"\`"L`"L7,$Z
M:.J*MF4TN.^'V'W-(46(`XMQS/PJ,M25JMF$^&"YF4!M5I4Z!(Y*S@1%Z-0'
M#+`]C`%@`5@`%H`%8`%8`%;QP'K+!AT13KG/I_73=0.?7[&<
M^%#2J[5H$8C;CR-2WQ1TY_'!$Z&LV@0R'?<6U"W%2,FQB;`BV`=T7RH,V2'9Y
ML%;K(-GE0?M,%:9E%J0@]L%7)FE;(FK5-_%G5?-?58Y=\Q#,L^N6'
M"G2?77MH[+BNXWO!IWQ5W8&4GKI6RH^B_98W%L@3<='1,NO6$Z&!Y``\T,6N6`L'3J&^_=WN!E,GS+`SVI#?`LM4XK[!#\\!UKX/\CMV([`GB(VHE
M`218"EG>LU1+J>T/IZF^DC!TO$?Q%GKV51#-&/"V=W_=O^Y]O4"4N/$&Y1]H
M)B'G%F$L^;U[U[^^;-W46C?7?[$+'W!`7,$RH[3##>X(G1:O]WMX_!NUR9.UR3.S,:;D?
MH"B!Y\F('DBB!Y\F(GC>1)$M,"]*1%#R1/7NQ`\F1R1/7NRDD3P!0]3?SN_/T:/_1*@W)NPVWJ<4
M/Q+/?CFI!,2.Z+P;.IC6N[.JIE?K354.;@5=LVJ33*FJC3H`*"V`L-#+BYVN
M5QNF"0!*"R`(G[S8R21\4H2QKWQ*V'NSUO>#7[3T[*-RK*++P:Z@;U:A9S8`
M/6G1@Y5>7NS,!J`G+WJ`G;S822-Y`D:RO_@T?,2/I/:`[9]D@"!Z#:H%5,M\
MYZ%J:))LDP%^('N%P@YD3V[\0/;DQ4XBV9,B:GWITXE/<4@8C@
M5T"OS-]MU`U`3UKT0/+DQ0XD3V;T0/+DQ4X:R9,D9#T>^UXC)BYX&"[F\X!FJ)'T)`+T5[S[3E*-$
M.S\!:KLH3%6CSJ;+KVW/@X_?HML!\>5,1P`*P
M`"P`"\`"L`"L7,$Z:#:`MF7KUJ@&M<8N!I5:O
M-H[CE0.6^\;2@BZ(A+E7ZTIQ?\X;GIDOI9@-8`!:`!6`!6``6@%4\L-ZR04>$4^[S
M:?UTW5H$8E;B9VJ&XG)\/QP1^II-8"_^(Z]4E>:'7PJ;
M0D/8$9_2Z>!&P\#SX=$!H':6WB'+=DS%KG?X+_T1"0C"8S_RP@!1,J'L,WL.\U>0,V:D#)$_1!X)0T9#
M-)BY-2<5'`0D3+R;^=?(G<=1T:\1\1!&+GG$KON"B#?TJ4UB5,X?_RD$W)P`D1
M=8*?\:TVGP^A$TS#E^P?SV.B.S/R;^2-O2E/*T5`U3:0`74#&?B(@)VN8HSD
M,1]A#<81:,B$R__%@8EG>U*AQ/8]VW$9JIPS0IY:CKZ2$%UQC+['$^27GB
MP7_B%\77/F`7>S9[1C`B[(8I@S%N\3U^2Q@S8(#')+W;\=!7/R3(0%.Z:(JJ
MLXE<>\R;3GC@_$WPMM9*'+9CJZ441)MP!EZOI:;W6-9O:X,JRXO1]!9][1U[
M^?HHKSW4-M'9M8?&CNLRY@T2;0X;14(^4G0B;%6L;67405%KJ1:&=<3P^*$T
MRM^11S*E14I5`JVRBR^U-'VVMFOYSOCXC\R/=.H122>'W(JY/<0MYXQW,[><
MQP0'$>_:C,.32O8*[DA1?EX*Y5;Y`PZ/L(!KTU0('UJ+!!O3*4O!RZ"ST.1L743?L0M3TJ*:VJJ$W01SD"?\2V
M8VK5-.3406*:7.O/QI@972<5O&B683(F>^$9#W&6'>=5$!Y'5MY,?_!`/554/5EUB7)CI/"++LA09#-'YC&
MP6R7_>(,':[7@I-*G#Z-N"+C*0+)-:#)#J#)SE2K+H@B6\Y9`_VU91K2<8Y<
MW#CE4%2K"_3-(=P^090-6$W[#F=):3.].4#HH0_]B`4!2XI^Q'?$YBF1@R00
MP3>]YW&,DXKMCR>^QT,:Q5QHQ=C7;FA5:WJ&$"RRN0!^A#UL4Z^:NB15EM"B
M\=5B!AV4!+,\`*PM+8_-:F.L->4K.ZTEER/L/9*X>.3*\;!G.]A%UUX0TBC>
M)SFI?,ELE-R0)^(B?:%ZA>^7W,TV2]JSS9(UB]%[]2;K2H#RJ])A$+\JPFACC\(TAH<1@M&+C^B*3U.*L,9[9PY[=B]C&:8DE>;39F-\KA&
M*+O3=([X&,?XOSYUPI=YJ4_VP;;OL2MYB=E)96X,HH`_*:DA6P@$(_R$'9?/
MM3;T:2W`+F$L&X[2N?*'9,?E>+8;#9)I]BZOH6IH5C6D?+AJ2#M.U1"\=F^O
MA1JI35/R/ZX0UCYD*PI>^G3B4QR271:@@XR4%VH&X--
M5_9CNYP'*#\Y-@7G",WH.G+WW,=ZF>8W"R^`]S[L$&11%!N?=ZH3GG-8\
M]P-89Q%5JC_&N/
M"]N^`'HX`!&`"*#!#Y1RL&WB7COI/55%#^31\3P>F^:AYB0.GK?I6.8\@Y5D
MF/TV+:[>;I"0@5`D5L@P!?`$\$3\FZ8`*P`KQ+]914@(%["B(8[^($K8V_^/
M;ZU[`Q1YZ<>3BNL'`0DN)+&0Q/`!X)'P2'@D/'*WT(&8J?O7F40J?]J"P/;'
MY*1R1IXGQ`O(BM;F0JX5!D4&I@J`#J`#Z,72ZU+D+ESZWA.A
M`:^BX<5S:?U))OE>SWX-AT/XJV
M,"U[@/NXD)>?MY$#QT65!VM1
MG!?`&N(3@/7^L%:-`H`-?4!?F;#06E(P?P/``K``+`#KN&!)X(!-*L=0)2XF+>C#?WT`+`1<>..K[Q57/'_SD+410S?\<6,NKYOA.J4#7Z,9_I/,)V.U4>/4G0=#=#O'VG@UF5A>_F.HYMWNSP:N*G\@B(%-A/\<=9E8CI[3U7+\V&RQ6BX,'7'8<>>,`
M%H`%8`%8S8+%Q3YW_Y2>%3&"L(E^RRL-/AQ%^\^N&>#P=G73X(\N]UN
M]-&".:D?QD$\"H-(F-.LE:FQIV'P(XS"/,19M_,5!UF1TJ397.@'82K\&40%
M%I)8"(1O"7$_1D6:4LH--\C"9VG:9B^-4'UBA$L9_J?(\G!R]\#3>LN8O:+L
MYB3,1F2X=Y0RBG*5E^1^I8LC"C^Q,`['!)RD?\K.F,B&5>]9M(97(OT85OE>+_%F$Z=[=^8&'Z0)X3\F"W
M/129=!A
M[-GER;_]^1B7_5\W`0]:+]7\\@WNV87G7TA$PY\ZYY>D";(UC()91K3W#Z(L
M?E[L2159_L>].$=DBN#TX=YR_8QV\8QI_^/H
MM39R\0AZ\HF=?'U(KP6ZXZJ@+S:IVO;2)`B!`R%LQT"K/GOHV(X8GK5N<8<ZFKF'FV^R/M&]HTQ*K6:#5UW)Z&76LL2%
M%.$;''4[P2@/;\+\[AFHWCJCLN)^&.=GER>#D[-OG^;78.$-_DVXWR)^L##9
M)/[I7PQ.>LZIY)R>_$%^^"/(,-F?XK*YXV#NDY,FJR:HK9G4W9!#%A5Y!CPF(@RP![L7NXF^0%Y(7V&-"K0D]!?*#'Q5;IC%Y`@R'9
M@R%![SBV8:9$*VBD*L]6;40C\;\+:9:CE)-@3.#-V/L\?F4`'F3W`UCM`(L+
MZOQ5X=G6N:IL'(Y7B>%8%W5-?T?,$+BN#)[%5B*-1!7)%=4G6'2*`,P7P-1$
M4U$Y`1.H!!XY*)!#RY@W"6`!6*T$Z]D-"ET^_(@RG]-HML8
MOF48SVLFB.D@3DUT$NT``F@>;7S#/*PFH?_*G]V;,3[W$6VFZ2H]83
MKCP\(4,8DU_F:?BCH`V?1T'\-;@-I\74B>,BB-;^$:?^=!8E=QB3/VF&S2Z2
MU=2-S"O?]F7%=RW)L`Q;0KJN2"ZR-4G1+(0,"VFDE:$R5!_DJLV*%!]]D3_(
MVDI@[Q_]A39^3D@F#SCX/I^%-&?V7_1\1+5FY9'(ZV3_Q^`IGWW!^-AD$M[4D
M-_J&YUFJ)DN^;KL2\DU#LCR$)%O6#4=U3
MW)6KLI^D%WBVJ*%P-GD`0"V"T?R^Y[JN+O4]!4D((5.R#5^1+,UV/$4V?4VC
M69_JDY+19=7>%,W+8UD?>SF=7/*;,94G$6:IP)PTI80KM"7W;O631>/.SR`=
MG\W*'%'_=A:FY3/923Q/(:U%6,BGXW1T"5FZ+"%%=R1;=QU)0YJG]5'/\BUW
M(T5VN:P4;5-(-0RZ8B4^R"I?Y2;O.A&VYUJ.I_J&Y&ED82'/-"7+[O2K3L]WWY0(^U36_9.9FV\U_`7]X]O9P!<475CX7V1XZ#?A;/!/_Z+;.3W[
M]HC(X\2]+LUN\:,,/*3G6LMZC
MWW4ZTVC8\Z^HV?7'TUH'?3UYVPPE,T=#0.WH'P01\W#^;(C=)
M%@PF?9WBJR!:UV'M5%2,A>BK*BNIP:W434V&>ZLF)W3)7+A8D#6T+Y6DZ>`N
MM50E(863DEJ0@T"K.CT:R]\@BP"..K1;AK$F!J"0I3?4OMV69?ZAF*+B'/!\^^/$/?4%Y_+2'[PK\JOFL@Z#:TP@G,Z2
M>%X,94*+T"U17Y1#$=U.+H6@A33BBDA#7D/;_!87!9_Z':@^L-2
M@R[3'F2H_@"O;?5K&8VDX/77$`M:>^C1'RGQC,I/Z;*$6R](4YIEL?ZM4R9I
MU2N8N:`@NI0P:XK`U
MQ%;7GFHK[SW!B>;2B>:\X!0?&K)FI6$\-'CT$(O"TBR(YJS:^Y
M"#D>X-%U3+IU=2?1XFGC9^;*6ZO6SG7>8!ZSHFA\N!V`7I6/;UO@X/,&&J?,`6S>+)0D^,$H7]PK@-]?OS]@
MJ_E%1N2!4SC?WZ,'@(!ZZ1!A/U9U5G`'/W\/?C[$X;75X]!4"-OA%[UC
M=7'.!EX^1ZBURLM_E(?2ROS8O@@`,`"
ML``L``O``K``K/:!]6S-M*W++1G-5UMZT;.F!_`/JMRL270;_W])+_B:25R^
M>_.%2YDOOG]8G.O->Q'R^Y#^L:J%BAI+_TY_4,1A11G,SRB[(S1G5@6!8MQ+HP6-/)"4#+'TY:R
M9)+_I`7!\D3X029"$HU%(;Z?88:[G6E)`(/''TJ9AO?2?=55
MQMMG>,UUT_["`B;/3X..W.7@OEQ*IB)'=;QJ;I.BI[:?)YX;U=FS[9R%88
M_%62<2^2SIY`81NUK^RZH\X-3H.K!][7:3C!K^PUF_,(EB,L1UB.-8"^5?2_
M8CQ[\M".Z+RU;K6T'@64L-JWX8#"12SVF-.9U&3U'IA)8#*8)0-\5&:H9A?K
MD,-9%5%'K/!$M#)TM6IT+`!OKOIS1_R[[G0-M#)QL*J!)SAP^;!.[2[E![$R!7^^"S4,,J&BP
M?YNC0!VS`X0=3C(.S=.0^;!3O-[;L-@D@RB(UGI7H-V/@]P@ZG"8=F
MXSGAWV5W)3>('6KMI<6CR!:@4F9VG?#<9"WYTD#V"4N`@;T;$*<>9*19E1@T
M45X4-SE$7WZ?6;"TB^:29
MJT^4!.P74S:[G25GV"1)A4F8C8)H'D=6DH6)"Z:P!6>8O,X9]J';<1Z^/)D(
MHV`6DDTXZ?%XQ1I6=D91'KR>?$+WKU[TQEXQFKVN+]W.6F<>([DMW=4Z!=0K
M&*"VHF!X/Y?6G/NJ),FB,[/;28H\"F."#VG_V-_,VYJ#OK/:6S+UOU@VJHGFDW>!M
MN=0Y2=@,42=FN**:#<:7,GO^M?_Y5U'!A>/YUVC,CY&R6CO[]T.X+P
M^_*!R]$U'A<1/IOT[HL*G4U.XE$RQ8/@UI_?/+Y""?1\-RW=-62R'^*JLC2OV3B&`\O!]Y0,XPAO>N4#4T>DL&'X\]'X7BH
MVY8I#SU7][V>XDC(]\C_]2U3LON:(]F>[RD:\@T%N4.%//:%#GDQXN:"!Q[5
M7Z+WQ-W.+$UNPFQY[QZ6\A/RX!9GRS)+`E19VKCP->TW7_AJS=0=:N-KMZN9
ML'F?Q>Y=]^Z=Y<7@V^TMKW6+&_9O*`'QJKMH*`'!B.@.JN;!;D4G,VHV0%=N
M8-4KTI0X@L*`>L$MB\S_O^X?*#,,%D`]RR`]I[
MSM1M!M3^XS(U`B$57%B+$()8-W]J6QR?(@QV5.
M5I2,VFIT6&/>T#6P,S7"WF0,D0R5GOA%3]/YC))E\3\_AX17-AZ75@D:G`*WU87"(DV5,+F]#1&8%706+^+7QSGIW4VDC7,;#
M$TP,W1CB95AO$H3`@1#:J'O8/&*^5US@H._+0;=UJ/[74OY851O)
M//X5SI3AF++%QY0`%D=@[=5GU;;T62LY9JRJ2*$)$/V30EY6D^RD.Y*
M2/8LW9#[EJ,K0V6H'PE%',Y?'68)4LF;OE]Z1U]4--_FK418P\C71;N(I^G/
M,UP?H5*+F+0>\EU+[TE(Z?.P5*9'@.4[#9/QG$!6XEF$;=M_1>FY/ZAM(EY!#
M1NSVD"%IIMN3^[YCZWU_J`_5IX:]F!QKPWYQ).L#)VLOQ5,BIR`B2W*:Q)?7
M08HS)\_3\$=1+NA!4G[GTM;.@SOZ8R=-@_BJ?*Z>=2-K>M_LNY[DJ[)%5HOL
M2I9L>Y+5-U1543U=]F0R(1Y*)BL[?O1%41[)Y/V#7!>:/YG,2Z+=:ZZ+(,)*DT_(9]V[Q
MC[LF!71UWY'I2E$U@TP/0U$E!\F.I-NFY_I$U[J:\Q92P'KKR"V$(*3X!L=%
MF40V\,9(%`%LC"
M:Z$6'C^1+Q#^`T)XQW4OL%P^[CB;X6"U:6%@N8R`Y1)8+IL4';!<"W'`.JBPDM\-!>[E[,X"F,L4%L3
MCG`FM'N3PIBQ445;@\SCEJHJ530L3@KG`GZ5^&D(B/BWM2M?PU&:9,DD%]PB
M(Q8FR]I^`,::;=%$VP!._K8J)Z*=%,2'=@(`JS8RMJBK?)H7-CJR*"-"K0L]HT;W^
MHY`^H.@#UC+=ABW:B!,>.,#R!2Q5$5F<7+$`I]\C)P68QQCS*`$L`*N58#W+Z0><0M5F
MLL7D/@V]%CB%JH[RV,S.W4N3(`0.A`"<0J\2!:\IZ[5I8>`4BH!3"#B%FA0=
M4.I8#-11%M
M&3B&:@2\":X:`JK)";$`X/8`-U54;$YNW!D,:0>.H08,B"DB'>IVU@E\HRDV
MF@9%Y_G%3QW5N#&X0P$BH89MB**+A@7'72U52@HBFU%.SD\`P"(<
M+EWV;M72F&Y"W?GFWNQ,DF=MX[TN@2+3#:5GR
MD%(2SZ^_14JV8\=V$B>.)3=G,!C;X5(\IU@L;D6^.7F.1PGE]UI/XGY"AWY*
MDK@U+OYXB>_35I0$/S_7:PC],2FD&ZX0%D0)RR@^C;_@9`"#S@T)
M/(I]=HYO<9SA'DV&W?L4T]B/VAD#>#!E7II2L]Q_],!3J*KLZ[3U!T%_M%T357^K:J:?75QV;DR+.N*7]Q7+4.]`LA"
M')"A'[%/!XIU@$CXZ8"$5TW7L=4KI]GMMKIM6^ETH"C3UC4%R':4=D]KM76[
MW;)=ZTJ[@@E8%I.\:L(24X>:_KSH''PV3,>V\PGB#,NMPC"/>#MA*5#F1YB=
MP3PJ&$^9V1RN.8`ZKFKU>MV>TNRZ%@#DJ$K+:5E*JVDI`?86`DY[Y%[!$^N,'G?EE
M$]Y<4II+BD@<1%F(&10U]..L[P=I1L7V31RBD+!ETB320&(92/>R1'+ST_7
M:WDL+C8I4R2:%R)/K\&O?O!W1D0QXI"W']YB,$B,MXC'
M&,/HL!AE0'G;QY/B1"XH":2%]G`I9ZDZQ[\ODWP"`V_UT"$3-A2
M:`_7)&Y-IW#ZC"4!$2S=D?0&I310S[-/@)MDK9>6YH8<6Z+
MRB!UPN]X\?HQ](NA$)X+S+B\H@$3Y([6+_`\&I)6V[9Y&S@;NMK)M
MZ70,1W,4U3!MQ6QW/<73>I[2,O6.:UIFJVM9+S*OV[5>%RDTO>@0P0.8ZC5\
MS[]@H5X32T/R@!BI?X^N<8S[!'3G#G/EX78,L+]C'U]NH&5\PWT.-+BC:F5\
MPV4[CN6,#/(N14H0*@""C&_X+"BJ&BYG:U98QC>,9'Q#&=]PE]#)^(9O:RO+
M>=WER?GB8Z+DF8^MGOEHZ*;Y"NGDD8^*'!-H:)9\2WLOJ-0:CEN1PSLEO!%S
MLF0-UEK\I(JKF(YC*6[;;2JJHSBV_I;,;X;)TKOJ'A?UN9D_Y,W!?M
M)&TBO?;6TC^U#/^V,][=^^5;VLWP9BK.`P3D.<8RGD[!?7*8]([9BSG41_EI2]
M[LD:R5G5.',J\L10:3GCZ:]GY&VTFO*&![Q?,&5'BJ]8I%EM^
M*.(QH[W%]]3GZ[AF/O@U4GB7SI[T[2R;+W*N=OVZ;8:CKL/
M_;P2FW!='C65O]LJPL;R@Y0=++;CY+3N[&9#=\NR'2.G@GE6ZYFC4+!T8E5WDD69(L298D2Y(ER9)D
M2;(D63LD:V["\*_4OX[P@^\AN>7?_OA7QI2![X\^7@0W.,PB?-K_DB3A'8FB
M2WR?MJ(D^/FY7D/HCTG"[SAM^^SFC":W),1A:_PGP^%)?#K"U$])//""E-R2
ME&"&`F`="CG'_4\'.(FNSKI.4W<4^$?3-57YMZIJ]M7%9>?*L*PK_OZM:AGJ
M%;0QQ`$9^A'[=*!8!XB$GPY(>-5T'5N],KJ]3JO5:BJ]CF8JIFG:BFMU-<4Q
M7*^CJ7;7,+0K^!3J)@V2(3_@M*/C%BT-^ZRG$
M;6BJZ2JNUNLIIM&VE19PK+BN[7F6IW=UMP4PJ*M0+-\G8R
M'%%\@V-&;G&>\6O"V#D.(I\QTB>!S]^%]\*_LKSPT[B#*;F%7Z$ZR!!E(4\EU`,5K2=48KC8'Q)_9A%"[7N&%5M):R*9C5?`NPS&SN/WL3(
MYP7?^/%@2R9*M;RNVC0=16WJFF)Z9D]Q=--23!A4;=>QG&[7O0(+9%U9JP"Q
M#-U>!&29_(O&**#89[B#\_^?@);U,6`4GN-;'&=XEQ9Y]>AD@2%[;(R>:,I\
MRR]2/PY]&H+]#K,@_>%34(ET?)9$)!AOWNJY=FI=5??O81:7GZ[2-2
M1_>O6W`M$$`3"-8MMHZ>DE!?(>'$8^-]C?3'#YR\E\C\`Z-1/MZB?D(1J'6]
MQD?;H9]B/FJRE*&DC_I9U.S+K-19.0UT
MA]%$0E%0+N0U*&B(DAC=$)8F%*Q]5*_Q&]#0O+]PP&L:%;3T?1)E4"CX6+R\
M608TE[Y>HWCD$YI7T!!__!DG=Q$.!YB#PD;0(6%<62R8H4/2A^3CWZ$9ER#A
M-.%B>\8(AOC7@4UJO#7`,3F44\71BJ$,CGZ9YU9%_#6`GXO$=
M!+XG24(T2P^"#H08?9H,D:O.YEBA/V8H34`*BC$:8Y^R(\1Y6\(_YVVF6@^(
M@_P3#;S.!JA/[GEBED%#?(88#C)*`*B1G\)4@37J-2$GSS_3TXCT!2/\UTG=
M1^@'5[)!%OF4MP)CF!5ED!Q*`!6>9!8"@(,`2(GL,+7Y._/!8!7%<9VDX!A,
M*:O7(N)?DRAWKSE\OACO\MQ#3@;CDLN'A[['^BRH,(/
M$GSQ2-F%_A?5"Z6&N]TSY7VZ=>OWMD%%!&`@/Z(X0-TS<=S
M*A8U`QSQ"YX!M&3Z?>2'X>1[L?RIJ>IO4TP#S-=D'IZ&GS\54>1Q]-\.GKD\
M.\FR.L>;_/PK5;OQL96G>H8V/],[/(G1D$^,P#"]XLS7*9NAMJH@%%^S5G4!22XZ[G=%N^^R.U!ITGH-H5.W2%T^V@K
MRQE?M.5'?AS@!KK&`Q+'8CN@+Q9^'S-4X3NY4\4N60@FIV'8UBLD*
M+-EE?,2&95>(]5")4T#D>932XX;N(=2`E%^2A%P>8SAE6[D]HKF&JK>:JM+654DF])N^73'I5++.U%;/PC]
MA2:,B6\T=UKJM;9/Z1CL_?ROGH@3L%UP=E_DEE#V@B`;9B)ZR"-4IT$")+8;
M8?L=IS.9I.Y*"U%)E*6%^+4MQ$8G#/2]/&(@G>A*.M$5O]):#0NY9:-;#8FK
M,_+\:I>;JR&Q!*%JG6B7U]RE._+KW1J_Q,%-#&(-QHJ(TKI&5UZJTBR;2G]V
M>G%R>7+Z_6,>69;\Y,)KR-&WE:.,FU]C)D^/5O[RW`[J:>D4N[F\Q=,BFTXMO/OV)
M^?M02O&DQ'ZZ[B6[0J,UC$)GY5C_2Q%_J!EEB4&VEZY\R>C6&II3EJG;?O;S
M74:D-_'JT'UIF67B77O\[>/V.W)_;5P>DH58EO(+D;ZG7;^UD/T:Z_:_J=:I>
MC3Y7P@7^=L8`#TSE^OX[>@!F$>@"_%.V'>K,LO$L__QW\?'D.;U\]#D.7
MQW:JR]ZA7JRS22^_0JSME9?_Z![*7MZ/?37;-HJ2+$F6)$N2)_/WRD-IG>$
MX7IM*`+`X/!(8$JFZ#YK*V/C5^2>_?S;_/MQWS`=8,J\X.^,,,+?(6!>''8(
M&R7%5_@<1`G+`*JW?D*NV36:;=5N*6K7Z2EF2U<5S^ZH2K>MJYZAFTZSVWKJ
M"3E`>T!B!73T(](
M=I&+%'U54S:672R=
M7OP0#[OZ*+$05["B":W!,S\G&'P1Z.(!.(I#R9$*:Z'H!.N0@1M"+A7`9R@!GV`0*.
MR2V.,RQ2Z;H^,==Y2Z9U4APD@QBT0J`"MB;F-AJL^AU);X3(_LQ>`?L/H/'3
ME)+K+!^NH\%'I;%MORI!P)$#F$`,9$9O8L86.^*"7YA0_[FT3:_C,ATB%
MB%RDA;:*UJMK1YPIZFL]X]S]52;^\,PS/EYX7?0%?O+CH7NIIUP4[]B_+1/X
MB17U(K/QC+SOD*#4XKWRR9DUO60G#S>*-LZW=EWA#U]!V*"B+6)I94^5LL>;5#WNM-7T/KG=L/]_JPY!!@'&_?[`4
MW!6'(?F$6"$Q=X\GAR&+T92#*^Z;;SA[>Q12%AVF%.A!\7_9N]+>QHVD_5V`
M_D-C,`MX`'&6EWCL;`+H3+R;V/../5GDDT&)+9L;BE1X>,;[Z]^NIFY1LBV+
M8I.I`!E;%ME'57=5'T\]Y4QIG'.0-4-0MA841#
MWUSXKL?+(,>?MF\,][D\[11>=EEGH;6\SI=KZ,M+\^5[(>-\DL^!,=NX
MF/VHTIQV/`;7I\>=7Y=/'8\;FM
MYDALCN@0`0)S">I[;RW1
MX"T2IR,`@2:>XP,D,$,QSL&/3DQFCN>N,)3Y3=L"FR8/$06@7Y)A*0\UQ&R?
MM"'R9D,FWN,+VZ$:IY7(O"%^''+T^VM$8LCRJBD9@A\J^.+\+XQ8+0]0->#;
M8LK>=RD<89+9'L1]XHDWCRX,7D*DPH*-CU
M'CTWS89:P+]V[N\C>N_`UQQ>#/5/V<>(#(&[*\SCJ:\HZD@9?5[<6AKK*JOM[T
MW_VH:G([.])8R>7E?=J4Q2K:Y#)X9-^&T5,OC2+VVV:(R8G"0_K=H6G;JBFU
M;<62]*'9ERQ#[[$R;-/HM@>JU=6>"P]9CP7+)MYN,%CNO,O*69]YSY*6/62^
M+`Q`MCR8R)N+"2P5'_=./,=IQR]$[+XVE@WZN&A_6QX(
MN_O&2?Y<2K5'<2!;N3YB_T@M!6);$/^SM3:RZDK/N-&L+5AC3L-73VS39+_Q
MZ3>"OE\\(':MF&ESOSC?
MEIN!G"-<9'T]>HYLM4)5D-^Q0&V7P"BG:C7*\'%FL_.?,/H#SB9F43BF<4T-
MSRFFUPDMD&V@`2I0Z\V0HL/5-:)2($/4:8>!K%L0E]Z3OS0"5SX`>`8UET`>7RFD1>Z
ME\$X`B;8/LU^E@H$LOW!7"H&_O`3YWQ.)VF/":=XVY[X706T0=6>"PAS1F3629`I'NX=
M+XC)A1]"(HL/)`R:#;:=\AX=B+2K*0A"C(L;^PU6'F]H!+RAN5#*R?"-6:&/
MJ%(W:@1.$`R,LXX5&N]?0);IFS:.]",4N)`7KQIA/!]5_$DOL`Q($RLA%7.\7R-%KK"J%)N5V3/@F$O&$DA^DH3E87*JJ6R
MCHY1.BK69#-PY2QL.PX@R9??"-$B`L+?[]!,-[YE_?O#&G8@ZIX[D
MZ754O=?7;6G84TQ)M_2NU+6ZBL1DU>^U^^V.IINOB>39$^YRHD">N11;9.P[
M<>Q-/&`,?VHV@!Y\ZOPWC,C]4EK$@7@QH-;*&.8YN?="Y/`E86*$$=T"\OEF
M`Z-\UHP41OD(4"U&^>2C?$O:&)1?)`JA`D+`*)\7B:*J(/;"K/#OD%UF$$#N
M&`SXP8`?#/@YO^@PX.>TME),Y-Q7MM>G;K-QDT`BK0/Z>>TPBM-EVS]?WUS>
M7EY?_8-$U.?G`Y_(]@/+B+IQL
M(`=ZJCM0S6I9.A)"%ZCP$F[)F%)EN9!TRGB[6:C>C)9B5N166L!`
MI.LYC&9^>%Q/MR$8`ES36Y:)Y*)%:KY$.+&FM&RM(M@*5&!.W:K1TI2*A(TA
M-%P86`&BC5%9M516):#A2))?`O#;U%JFJN%"MKA!(`AKG`A\QQ(]#'K90]^N0S&?NK2F(P`R!GP%%%@Q>9'LC\V&-YU%SCCQQ@ZKUDN>X&F7)C0"9'QPS\M90V3'81J-%T4V
M&U&&YO[(!>CEK^OW;?F.#F4X.1!_$_'_V7GB/#S7D[[WZ+DT.)V&P4WR
M)M#^VU.2J,:^,`=#L]K;80Z'^['9YZ'C1;\Y?DI_I4[,Q@R\^!\O>?@:A*.8
M1H^@G,M@EB8QY#D)QFRH\"''/J51Q,9)UXF]N,.&5O(3&Z4023(?SNYE
MI!!Q=O5N7QWJMF29W:ZD*^I`ZG9ZJF1U>K9NF7W3:-MWIBSK=_H^@;*ZM\19
MFHBVXE'2Z=2)GB#I$#QPZWSO,0FRXBFKDL:G#BZ1AYJL]#19DH=*7]+EKBIU
MVNPWRQSVAQU[.&P/9'&"2R!+C'-_']%[)Z%D_.`PL4#\2!9>,G)\)\B,%U`]
M\GP]0/:8.-^9Y0SHQ$OB1;J89@,C21:>$"-)!*@6(TFJ$S^`010HA#=ZG-FD<>^!V^#&YMSN!M%
ML=#=U--@Z9C>K,+:TRJ:IEG,+U,OR0)OT*.Y;J6470SF:*Y>C#=R.Z&R:JFL:B%`BMK7X9:K94F513CYJ
M>?)>`OC10`;9:JJM,E!C)-;:66T@_8]@2T-4%BJKELIZ+1/1"RE8-HE;.NXC
MC1(O9L^=,F&RM4788LG*L&?8FM2#HG3;ZDF6:5N2V1\JAF(;IB9W.6'+'N(;
MQ9#E;>J;W:9O=JU/XW'DS>`H_'IR1;]UQCQ_!7O\E:VY0Z5M^6;+VKVUWVO]RS7T-0HUA[&&J.
M78AS5JPO%$A6B+,4#+E//9>ST00A8'"39L/)Y,+'W/-46OF-5PNEU[D,2)]U
M9#JB$8'@XE9&`C;LW'2)%\*@.AG7FH<
MAV./A]-\\Y('`IP^$R^`MC@^\8(XB=+YDP%[UZ61]\BS>ZU_]Y$`DU!`OZWZ
M,V]ZS+'3:UV"FR#.D18!FY4S!?W&)$Y'_Z5CWF+>=+@Q(JSA$FM_:_G4O#/`
M3P0C(\IJXLV&(M=&2YRPUCJ1NTAP#2FOYQ1N*SD$K"SZ?:]T`Y=K&W4Q
MF8:00MW[@_I/7+EL"(4P(QT^+MB!=5L!*\;$*-G9BV6"'-AAI^=C1AO6?A]77;[ECFS=X%)`"`20H7(CX&8UA3.E
MDA"F))L].>5S(\^5R[X,`VX]Z($
M%)P\K37YDGD\ZG!7LAB,D(9L!&PT(^#>;-'P
M9B.CCFHWG1RH7-'][WO$\Q]1L;(R)!;]@&/A/.?Z6K&=.4%8'4=M:S9W1CF4GNQI>G*63M7L#?I#2]*Z
MFB[I:F\@69K>D4S=ZG05TQIV!\.3;(+V4D:^=E>4PB]7U[_#_7-_<9*R$J9`[)$Y`"H8';"D;
M_H:2D8^TO&J1CS0/0"0F"^59BD0A
M5$`(R$?Z(E%4E6.O,"N,?*0^\I$B'VF9HD,^THK8RBN:D*]!1%F1YX+[L`]R\
M\%1\[5+A13R\DQ6@>_)A@MP)R3!#U8
M,5HO,<06HJE"F`%RXXEH(E87*0FQ<
MJ7B/RX"MG)-52K_"5E&UO>5'J`,*H;Z6J7YXCPM;6XO5:)'WIFK,+\94(R=C
M+!XBG.H0X4(Q12$?K!-+MB#8`*55&4P`JG)5I9X'<1-1:=4#%+I#6\``<1%;\")6L]\0IHN+6`&70TI+;E[,:&)=5
MJ"Q45B76P,<>[5[O39S0;&2\X?585*6U-:
M*8O40D]L"U=F`49\GT/&S*(56AFBLE!9M536P9R]9:7^6"05[G=R%*2]=$@0?4THN4&^YEJ0AQK:[^3*.:-+YB
M;EL.A&(T&_Q&"SW.&3S.A2*+XG#JA$`,(3%5CG'\S5:
MZ`JC2KE=D3T+!F8@?%STE28J"Y552V4=#,SXN^L]PJ=__CV-I7O'F?VCM[X<
MO^2+\:LPH;?T>]+UP_$?/S8;A/QS\?3-^(&ZJ4^O)SQ"^BH,PAF-G,0+[K-W
M!]]GK"AZ"]4NRV!K_B!A'[[0R0_O:.C??1Y8;=62V'^*JLC2OV59,>]N;OMW
MFF'V>Y9/=.6]*ZJ2VP!JTI6WQQ*;6-@
M=_HV^VJHWRGLM1^AJ_.>;NUSR@Q(R39`BRT/N:"9K#Y@`,K.*N'X`)1V.9$@
M=:P6`U#R`:@EK5G++Q*%4`$A8`#*BT1157QU85;X=^I$9!!`#A^,1ZY1
MX:]$4&FK*BV](E>2`D:A7,[=!9D?'M;370B&_\V3QX5FB>),$!-SEU:WI%**\%W-V`=\E(69A/(;6G9!',I5QHPO@4W-*P5.N4WL,3>SC>%1:GL>H$7_D#IP/
M^5>0T@.5A*"-9\
MG_-%!HO(D6QGB%%V:'N>.UB-85?KJYO!T15
MR7Q.L.[IK+B;K]V;P?]]99L@,OB-_8Z(/]*_:,N#CXV)A%7DQ)'(X]
MQRR7OEHTI&&=O3'E\9/P$G%+@K=3N/S-3/'/[R3C"VC,NQUVKIN&9*M*JJD=Y@]Z7;[AC30A@---7NR;,G,J"C6.Y(&
M7E9WS%OV[D>K+1O9BS%3#&`W3FU5!TI;
MZ?1[BC2P%&9:S2X3A:%WI;:A]&V]:^BZIHEJ5;7_9^]:?]O&L?WW`OT?A,%>
M(`4LP_+;*.X"CF-WLSMMOO^<<4B_'R>3E6':)
M^3"I;9$\K]]YD#RJ@*IS]NT?TZ_OWYU^F9Q]GCI'TW^?3[]<3#]L!5IMXRS;
M.,M.^_P,,$VSGH4*_:U&-L_9/:+9QEFV7-VSCK)_B5H!MG'70
MDK2-LVSCK,/Q2;9QUL&BEVV#WY`ST
MSB]VVUY,5E@'*2S;.,N>*;6-L[8L;=LXRPK--LZRC;->-.F6I[&]F*RPK+#V
M05@/-LYZ4H^0:F>-1S36>$K;CE=J0#*C=B+87(=)[@0\82)4U!4HVGR*TRD=
MXG2"5.*CR8([*RY%'*CW[R3'[D(\L!U*LF>&K2=W*.GLIE7((4YK.Y1LJF/6
MLR_%FPQIF;`'3+`=2A[%BGV]=;\U%+8=2D+;H<1V*-DEZVR'DM?%RGH>G:73
M36ZR8)&;\"6D?-@[5BQ73,BEZ67Y$USXJ\?^TE%[-'S!0NQ9V=IL41P-ZWVJ
MW\JJ)*O^3JY@/O@ETS$6+ESIW'TL7/'<7]
M5(I$V-M];^)(-O'#:W2]NGB7@SR^L,NSFH/.GAS6M-+;,'>_M9\'&NJ9T>3.
MR=PNM]ZI9M[IJ-?KU\01'5*:L]LK@;LYD[7_".G++W;%GN'5M;=R,2G/N2^\TC3
M"LL*ZR"%]<3WKC_IC;]KKUO/7]E^@6\5/L8W-D_B)3[,\*7=%PD\
M(+S=&R_3Y2J,;SE>#T$6Q)I!^'IPS:+L4@N2Z]PP95^Z6[:L[$I+^\E76NY_
MXE4^MM-N?=H#CBNW=!J6@%EO#M8S"W^#H\0O`/KU09XE@]_HX"T/'I+"2^]@
MOLI"Q]=%
M:5W\XO,NU/8?K)TV?
M2X4.V1X/XM[M`=[2/68ABWS>S4^JCS@F78`T+[
M=1RLW6FV[=LH[)!VR+>/,W9TQ/:39%%6;+6^=+OP6I?K7WL&K7OI2D?-KO6D
M=D@[Y)MXTGI>7\FVFJUW?0O$/:K-79:#NEY=+[>Z2>G;[6;[!5W[K*^U0]HA
M]RMKG6!9.+2.]6T7&K!UK-LK_4+"6I?XR3I1.^2A#6E[NNR7O.R0=D@[
MY%Z4YU[A=,G:JS;>O\M?/V&3BRW'G2]XR\?/''3N99+A#9NFZ[B5]\]EY4W3
M*-/*_6>P\XU5^MILS[Q$`VKX5@*SRX@-%FPHLUOO=@`*;B'ND1ZMU1P,K+Q_
M/BMO-8=UV0XY;+G7P\Z]P2&@^A/;>KV\-]=:KR_\_:E2*0].J#W5.;UN7?>7
MR3I:T8_.4^DO8+KSD$7J^0V^`NZ+)0O5?__B]M?:?7G>8-1J>P,71O#]8:#7F]\+6\ZBKLNA3
M'`/]NC6I-CH`%^$S*6_R<
M?MU\.$6Y`U&/MI'Z_Z?1V/?C-$K@"9^+:VJ^MPU2.]/9R?'Q<K[].ZF.HJ=)/C2?104F^`!\EKKGN2?EKK-0,%!;,
M?))*R2/_]IL$Z,5FB7$$JD/_"LFGC0/$`;0K8._9_!O[L16.3?LG)T,0KSOM
M$>X.^N[PI-MU1ZU>?]P^'IP<>^,'.>9V6G9="V.]EVR`1.\IQKK9]*9,8OLN!7%E%H\+_S4(;C_31NZA]W=0^M_S.+G9
M:A=$;R2A2F7V`KM/3$3(B[.HI/S;Z?P[Z\Z\0;OE=@<0^7:[?0_(G7ENJSL=
MG?1:QR>]6:+MM!`;EMY?GK4%
MQA!M1>F)RD(S'MC&P'ECX-:3&P-W=M,J]Q"G?79GJZ?WGW'>J.V,[=[TDB$M
M$_:`"QUV7="]HL_.RL>\&MV:VZC7W%RGJ>C?A2TCYF+QUBNT)G4.6
M)'D+=LU$B)4[=QY+%S]W%/=3*1+!#]1_U.P8VB9^
M>(VN/8.Z565X?@S_8LD/.MV="/35[>ZGE%Z_U=L/Z>U%1I,[IS!6BEOO5#OO
M=-3KU:79Z2&E.;M$L*.VMQ,(V_^$9Z=2\X;#6DO-]D5YC8+_A8GYJV7!Q>^2EU/;HWEM;HRXP
M:(W^QQ/U^,MK7[D?,J7$7/AK=S!GL<0;OV?SBWSC`AX+TP#GA*7D]PEW>N_M
MWKN2KN?=N>VW9494N?XKOV+A9Y8D7"K06'TQ\XJ#I+AZ[6MD@T&OW8-OW.&X
M-7.[K!D\E?7R)9,7HG(3>)5UDK!?*)Q45^NVG2;
M:3U&Q;_=.5N*\-;$J!_O9J$I_O'E[-O4\0:.=D1#0(J/S@0BW-,OGZ9?)J?3
M"X+!='-*NNE^6(6&]GTT/'O1E!R/08Z)!-UH.-\CZC5`?4G@0]":AH/=#LZN
M.7;9D%?RK"?3\ZFNWU/)F_LA+3>*%U>RK<,.9\X!+
M%FJ&35C$`L%@S#B5"=T.BN?)#=YG7,DX2'V8/6M6X8U&(WJ@W6KU
MFLYOW(DO\4$@+1!J*91B(;6LD)QANQI'\20)>7:B%>02XJ+%4H'I5+K322YZS76,PSAI#4]N\9-5R!+XV=*->)I(6NERE0)\`1DR(-FC
ME#-%:#K?8,T)%D.+-B+5)=UPX/^M([#CCIX)M.96JS8I"K5C6;(_8>3L)``N
M/=,\Y2_B&'2'X4U8A%)V1;,DBQCBL>I)@N("D-$W#'"?95T901%7JT;*@"'ZK2
MNUG$FEZC\,A07+E9=3:-7L.2_1#+=+F)NR1>\Y!06IM^9*OZ6[LY%#*D#KDYX351);
MX^1H]3>O.!YRA%2$XXP+@1WPG4!@(3DWJI3I/R/@DM@Y`18F^T>C`I1,:RUM.HXY448L[,@VIJT&4>_;LQ["VAK.(PT"W+F#)QH`CB(D1Q!&F
M+43C$[@>`>YK/C6#3.1#*6=?PP2_YZPA7.$`]1N(Y=1"K'!YOX'S..=RGD7F6BU-5$T-
M&E']0V-S&_J!Y*X,'15&WUT:1Z,)_+-/,$!?8D2NC1^XD]-]I=\D3]YF&1-%
MZ#ZT10-+4_+G2OPH.3&-3T8:!7I5B%051'R=P8>"]E:818)ZE2LEAB`;AJQ@/_5\<1]O,K94=$A(RA4^)R)Y`"65#M!
MZB"Y;!KUH[A;,PGF$8IJ2`I=1'T@[A/&;A$14BH-.+^R&\?4@^J-;R4U:8VT
M.*>IA%0:_!00A,9$CXY)80_QFG@V0-T$&`$/("29F,SC6F0A976Z&U-.6#`*/7V$#HRB"Q'$&T5P#Y-UL>!F
M;9D;U31G.$8(H),)FFU0,HXS#>K%!]Z@44+X,A)$$631?N:M1$+D@()CJ0P8
MXW..`$#>2]_RQI"/U)],KS`Y?*Y08/++MYI@`OL"0;3;+*V!LN9L`7,38K$(
M2QGH^2,:4,?%6;F./8!0C3PPP#'0Z5QB61,)2E%2`L.Y0("#HJ.HS+/*%G)6$%08]*]
M0#LE%JXG6!1'Z_##9/=`8X-R")/0!1E=9F>D(*P!/@#\101A3L.90=P@`I;M
MIH0"J(Z$^;>(2D]_XG*)D(9?E.KZ_P+V!/&R*+08I)_GKK,D]TK0A@.-(:_C
M:Y$B#'PG?([6D:A#6C-$J68^1!R.A@3INAH
M\RT>C=#833S`&@J$EKB=`(S-9*Y#.Q@YJ:P/GM5^`H>HTE1:*>1EJ`Y%5FK*
MJ?G."*,`!ZC)U#`&[NM\!W,S$@"J[\R(^T']GZWK_VH%[CO"H*.4IL,RX8=5
M)J)[CPMWNTG'09,P3W>N11S2%@^MBS(O]+1@H:9@:VIHI,9463"%;W3`*<5=
MZ$RO18#N0N=PBN(2G2K3I4EJP;[!/>Z=KTPUC#X$80_M8>^U]T"UP,JD*1YO
MSNX!SW2!=X,5YW4*>'J<7J%!46$"HSF,H#)M([3.[#5+!4#I)\G36FP]>Y>'$%LOQ*6@XI[`ODH),^B:+02_
MR7]^QX]1M:MHPUPEX,
M234ST6JQFB*\C"\F-(FR?<5=_ZJ+T'?4".66:O:[69,:X&A[@-G6AY#1A?H2#
M_%WN7==B&J.N65J(%KC^M*8R+QG3O@N2FE&80T\I9-2.$@=6Z:5"MV]81\WE;=RF*$+U)G-YNI`E2^,>1AR%SR&RJK95`'"$C2N\%,<7X6\
MLD#FZ_*0D7Z5U4A?'@@6M0?]EAA#^":J-^,X+!A#10P/)1XN40VL5_[DJ-.
M:4"J&3H1DHT'!Q*]T!8QP/ABL!$W$8B]%X@*J'T6[#`6]7(=H*T]T";+V,VN==231:%JT%AS6I+
M\ZYBI3>\G$L(:R%?6]!CF/=H2HSM(0RE\AHM>\-2RW9@*D#9#LA2F!(6J@PV
M,H1Y`0I8".*YBT:*5.8VVR;.X04YO@Z>!Q,5;TC+#SH4-FGY_90Y3QYVK:A!
M8*(!650K-VL9N4BX=HZ`R:
MO`+9_9\I@,!/0HC7H[4@]XZ?Q8,L`,^QWM1!,?!3HYW';R^
M4)"=EZ*&K783TK_?A#L3^;<4FNBCQ>!Q@)++K'Y0"F9QFZ7X%YN#D0A$YTH@
MIB6<I)MA"/82V+6
M(X\/F%2'5*H2=.0TTW%\`@8\0IEO9VB]U4C=NU4T8"8JTT8%^J@#E7+D4THR$*OHW*J+/$$G&_&Y\`5R)3\16UH\./.2
M4,OGRR3_0XF.0]U0&Q
M/N``R_]_]JZM.7'D"K]3Q7]0>7>K9JJ$5W=@MC95-L8;)Y[!L=G=)&\"&JP=
M(1%)>,;_/GW1%00V%X%:.K.IBHV%NOM\?4Z?>SL(3:)XZZI3,FV%9CR*9!AW
M9$=Z,PW%!M0+3(X1\2E>&5U?)#$NWPW=&C2'-6(Q.F7/?<6ZR&NNZ1/F
M"(5N#2%IR$RN`O/"Y!2F)BUH)"O(.!&8X]*DMIL?H(7/9H\EYA@Q+\E?2V<<
MJ=21NYDZ*,,]M2H((LUGW1W!IHJWT@NSMBAVH0874@J_F`HWTE`Z'ODRAT,R
M;H7XY2N&03QU.H@?I^EE$PK].#WK"Y[&L]`C5U9:06K4E$(0+H(,S_1SMG,R
M^V45-Y8'/;,H"=-'EE*^0[5'LTB96I*RAEG"11R@6(U)Q`&+.!"$C0VTB,X*
MFN-$[PNDDIMI(5172;]6^)#6D>/M$XRNHX[[5'(AW->'^E=GI#UI7?)D?3T#?LZ82[J@/,%64]\B1QJB\ES]))(&K00
MA2?+QL>2392%Y(D_L&!@K(^_UO_.KB^F.3HLGTZE?Z,YO*F_T\I=]/3JC),W
MW5/7*E6U9N3A>_S7Y$7$>!DL`YL$4UC382L&`1A`'R2"O.3
MXE:61>$09B&C9%7RK*7!\NV9(A,+I[7PYZH9XJ?.YY2Y'QGY_UN2-=#;RFE!
M)#G5MUE=P-'`T1QR-+UE'7EA@DGH>0G-X:BZ:>2Q^%;*VLBD846J@;99-=@4
M$L_4A\3;!$H56SU%P-RR2]0EELO<1PNU]_QQ+#XPEZNJ
M;=KQRJ(9?I)8X]&D7[)OQB&U07L%PQVFG-Z;CSWVK2&$RR9H_@:12DPOC7"=R2KQ]B*7S]DUA
M9I$"&M:^:.]3C5YHER0,Q[GVZZN)S[&51-UM!]D>-L7&7(X\&R(;PX^/Q7Q=
M@M*Q'`7;+'LV4Y99;H?:2J756O'`>HU)*D>$>@^LV7.28_,/,AT28.T]$S"]
M5^'&>J']143A(=2CPS99^/OWF$?(7_K.S*:)45%=">U3\^)^94+W]W]2Q3+:
MS'%%9\2X>=Z/')??!HTN+P\PK=+%+FU"CDVU-&E/=ZH^9HN@NDJRT.)\>2N+
MQUX)0\??T[1ZGK7^VJ6SP(:B^_-O^:BD.]46D24H!+2C"W6H9;H5&E+4#RNO
MI#[3B&_M."@'A$GW-CJ#4J2]A,T_+
MCVQ1S*T47O+_H:#"^B1+-20'C(^B1L.CI8]/+1^?4%=V\$R"4R3WQ(S0C?/8
M1B2WZR7R@;+6GTDGL%3;-3%50VV3FA5ZJ,]F'IJQ?C.DU";5<9!L,BH)5O13
MHIW@^4U9AWB2;TRZI(2->-F^S59HQQ2S'+*1\>Q)7Q?JK`BBPKUD:9D3-%5G
MEGHM4:9#)T/4OW!)*LG+E\=XY;/#9TN/5%K$Z%$E,,(B[I1JL>[#/ZH=+>J"
M*L0]IL,MD'F8M6A5I/6G;=>9M8@JE'F>I)R&K1\)IB2WF_:3#\(^IR'%+X4_
MGTDNTS<4]O1AF:93Y$Q6H'FQ9OB`6OHDBSK:-V%Q1]+F.&Y=.PZKZFCGMY7&
MKWIF$0EM1NC5#>N=65]9FJC,]EIP[B.T"_0>/!&G]8;]"/%BF%I+\U-I.3,Q)FGY
M2VK^C$9D`=LMN;7[/-YU1'!M:_QZ[)LIU+Y\;2A7G=9MWY!:
MVLV-UNI(?:/5ECMMO#A=ZW2Z;]U,$5YN.1P\1(I-^,GU8#@*:'0*[,?_=U
MB(P(`J8"VKDW8V9VRH;9Y9U0[#V[S#><9H!9-&Q>W6RPD&G4KX7Y3]+M2*SX
M.Z%Z2HP69DX1<==LT._1/Q/1N'18QZ'1DI:DFYX3A>JRKTWG-C0;1!4A;^'&X%NK$
M"YMW1^WQFPW6N"_L!H*_[R&L9SCLG,T5]E&,4KO6PV2-D&I2Z5];19
M[)*(_[A$9F+1OI4.]7[X0CRFB5=`#EF/U6`E)+_$UEC4IA>_F-B9\0$8?I>$
MK\F)U6R0?OAA(3WIND1=&=^(!X751,]=C^@;7\FA2SO9$[(SM96\O-E@M5-!
MHA[2JQ+8G5&L9#YWCF0ZS48D+NEJ8HW%3:LC<2%_$/713IHINM-F@Y7SA]F3
M9*7TZU$K^5U/QTV2*2N_GDA5Y9*(F+92VJ=QZ*]_YV)]ENLT_?HO0]T
MOH-I/]S;#\A[>L84.+;DD[I*7^G>=%IM0V^W-+VGM[J=6[6E=;&$EJ][AJ)?
M[23YBI4M-*S$2,74]*CQ5[/A$_*0_K\3Y-FO+&T`TRGL:&I^HT6$H/[^ZN'IWX29-HEK)0-1ZW?I[0MY-1I
M)S&9MZX3#;^B;OS&43ZNT[![WY7Z%@O*677DPYT3&53^QVWZR!DO5R5;'V]R
M9[UGPLDNACW_*X$('!!A!ZY-EB(K*5F\?A$H,[`2]CW]?:/RP?>-KI`"G\BS
MY^#7"WWC`9,\D=!)._W3IY+"_\$V@="G[9\2KR"]VUL2.1#*A]QZOD()HN,6
MN^+SO[(XTLE`NGU))YV1=%64EONRTW_R_"3T)+1/+:P[ONW^"/\R5YNN"=F7\;F)S4EMYF1Z\!M2I@ZL?S=
M9_7Q?E\9=J]=?PC[K4SG`+%%KJ#PS`511\C_'XTL1R!0X1+UG:O;7]@>C+`B
MGP7/H[-7/UDS5=5_O\;VX62]QE%ST8)M.!P_]Q^%_!-)MH/^OW^\>/F,E@$*Y0U;B";W9P[`=
MO.N$MXTU&XLHOXR&CR+\VNY@ZXFM\P`S;:01UN_+][FT!O
MK!T<9U5RA8'_"_Q?7/J_^.#;'EI=5R26)HE."=9BBQ1KYHRJ&3>7D-L&R".
MB@3^C$Y#0]1Y71ODU,GEE"+J^@%189!39993BJAJ.I=RJ@Q2
MB<5%D)=R;F-5JMD@)<3?3"_G9BJ03T>73VU1Z8(>55'Y9(B&!'K4\236[=)S
M+'JO>"8F!X+J)(J4U&F#H*JFH)+%;I=/0;5U@BMN]8K%&$^VD]^B6V;[%4U%
M3L$ZZ?FJ['F^#MW`M$5RL=G8]>%8/<6QFDN/^">Y*RHJ)-96]-3-1;Q=K:/X
MQ!;"U7B\G"]91X$)6GAH;-'$3Y!E)Y!E'V1)[!H'9+X<55Q]!"EU%'@_=,6.
MTCT'E*L(@DT`-D&5P.+))G!01>V!NYIV8A_
MI=V1YVI-WI'5O6VMM(%EG7IN_B;K"FK
M[5_?7L2FGHI]U_ITU![1[>3>X<>?[UZT-X
M!PXF,[E"C%P4+OSAS:6-.)+XX,;X2@Y!11@M?F7X5)86B4
M:$.A..>%XIR3#AHE'E=6EC-?.KE9<3"=$DO0?_4#-%^'!P(Y1TN35D2E"Y&<
M`@$_0R1'D<2V*IT%RNIT03P#;G);;.L:'[B5,)GN3\N9N-]\X:$G$'FY
MV6!G"%0OG^(TP1M85:!\N4CDSUEUTQ8["B?URP!@'H`=4>$%0"X,%A(`)'=>
MAR%!&L4*7&R*P6ESBM-&$Q6U+.G;N=\%U9"$A6T&)#6#-G.+D4<5NVX"3IYJ22Q75
M-B>U-8!?+GZ2RN?)4X9SYFKR@KS`\O%!`T?)28X2N0-=6"HJBA2Q*X,1PS-^
M.I>7');5B!D$S\B#8^4$QXHF&FT([E=4+*EB6SM+UQPX5HZ$G];F\UC9.D%H
M?P3MCP`L`*NZO:JJJ;J6H[HACPQMK.DH*JBQQ6V",V3.Y]'1Z(I=#3PEU=0',R``O`*@U86SO)K3=.*ZP3V*:&8[>FY?UAVDMT
MY?N(?O7>,D>6;046\C\CD[1JFPSPP..E1WI@79N^Y0_),H[=9$S59>6VV]%;
MUW)?:VG&5:_5T0VII?>O>M*U(;?[?:5$3!$"PHA``)W'HN_H,G0>@V$K/2RT=\OSP!^UI\L]/EEM`3KB'$(]:,5T
M`/527;SJ3W0;"GGG7<61*]_=B3E(\]26I8O'.6-=C9
M>]/Q"PI(441V7OXR!O9A\'0WO!M\^82M!-LD+;M_$>*==]E!&.H_^H_#N][5
M?>OJ_NXW_"`V(I!M.8@.],%DISU^9;S0VLJ?0U`2(K8<>L@=O?-=T2=C;KN?,Y\FB*^@U!!U:O(^K`ZC4$O1*LSD6XI4KR7LP.LU!+T:O%["6,KO
MET^7PLQ]09Y#&O70*\G,&7+&K^0FLO'2HSV2UIF78G8N(RZWK(3QNVJ09N94M=BG9
M5E?!>JDAZK+8EN!JCQH"7X5##4#?G=O5*OAB`7C@=@"]+MQ>PLC+9]4^"!VVL(>E6XG8LP
M2\_U%JYG!@B3C=2VD+0QB+.`?`/Y5EP*K-A1(4FLAL`#Z#4$'7.[U@'@ZP*DAZ%7A]A)&5VZ09[V8@?4"0973)#E6P0P'`;:K]\4`
MTZ2&L(.R4D/0M0[TTJ@A[!]DK2PJZD>`NW"X5:V"I2I;YSQV;7]AX@^TE'WR
M[$7S[0WN!X^?A!\D^N\BWC)XK?ZS.4%DL?2'"^'G'?;+IF&F]%^,J(VF06K,
M;]8D>/[U0CIT]`(8X"VZ9;9HT50$L``L``O``K``+`"K4+!.FKJB[.D-'KJ!
M::_OD"KX@&71)-+K@'ZSW)I"[HJ2#XZCFFZ`*G?I@`^Q/8Z,KM@W8
M!/7>!.!)KBORF/T-I0I*P`Y^Y^2__+M8;4H0S4:M.!AMMC#
M*I?."P`+P`*P`"P`"\`"L*H'UC8=]!D1ROUZH5]LFGCRQ&KB0TV?WENE?\OL
MD+-FQ[UECBP[Z?)3F,FY-X,FI%**XO_ROQ*(`$0`(@`1>"(":`1%:@3E;,:1
MJF^C'3GNQ$W)$,1X)]@:=%^H#]K`V?7!6M:!L^N#]@>Y
M-"VS(.6@.)ZN0N^!O4K6E$K6K+W'GI6--TT]_,@NEF'5'S^5H_O#G2/,+=NV
M7,?_6*RH.Y'0DS=R^5FDWVI@`;T@6SA;9MUFXE3AO.,!^K,5;`/T9X8^F=/9
MDBMA#ZQ.8.0QM6;%$1QZ?8>#AT^"M/@>NX&O!\/AX#/][!0;=+''U.233^UT
M?/2;Y_K;`O('H+D^2_:2O>9Y:UI>$;@>=9)_F/82'0GB,TJE$G`P%[Q\9*[F
M4MJ?3E)]04%@.;/R'?3X(W\9;\"'P=/=\&[PY9/@(9L&*'\18@ZY[""\)?_H
M/P[O>E?WK:O[N]_P@R/31[;E(#K"!Y,9C?B5QP*AW!LK)6U*M^&$Z-A))OFF
MC"^!7,\E*7CDBO7(089)Z7)._[%T4,I&E$1!D>0#/$7O$:25S;*"5#,@`A`!
MB`!$`.6@"LK!E>^C`&I12OQ*(`(0`8@`1.")"*`,U*\6Y?,R6)JV,%TZDVI=
MMO3CSMQY=ACY'$F$?CH]/];"FK9X!2`A@!1H"Q)#""8*T,E.7A
M2("L'MQ7P@M.>^Y\CKRQA17OA;FH6NWW_O8Q2)$Y7Z`'H_H`>?Q
MBQUP'L_H`>?QBQTWG,>%+[N'O,":6F,S0+[@3H4)6KB^%8!V#9*F]I)&[W8`
M/6[1`\[C%SO@/)[1`\[C%SMN.*^$+NK?+Y\NA9G[@CQGCO#72)]2&(^+MS8MZZ'\+AI[7OD5BT]^ZP[5E+YV*X@;_+0,]J`'K?HP4G/
M+W9&&]#C%SW`CE_LN.&\$GJR/[M>,#-GJ#4RQU_11`#O-8@6$"U)Y$'4%$["
M9(`?\%ZEL`/>XQL_X#U^L>.(][CP6O=.M;86I@V.*Y!KH!<2.&\SAQ6]4(O
M#PE+`.CEC/U!DQR@'+
M8V/9@2Z(E
M6`W1U_3IO57ZMVP,.7Y^1'ZXM\R192?-*$;Q;,IB`22D4LYEO9S_E4`$(`(0
M`8C`$Q%`(RA2(RAG)7ZJ9HB6X[O!,_+6MPG$XG<94I:Z.P\*0:$S@Z;H#3`]>#QIO_8PG.^OWIXPF_`2K]M+GP\GY'K39!'G;1C9!/C86PYL_CWA3F9
M1+^'[EQ9DGY*FPF;VPQ$W]!^RM)G+V8W/[Y[_]"Q5P>,:!Y^_M?2#ZSIZWZ;
M"C]OD1_^S]ZU]C:.(]OO!OP?B*`'R`"21R]+UNQ,`WYE-W>G.XTDO7OW?@D4
MB;8Y+4L>4DKB_?6W2,G/V.X\_)#4;*"[+5NBR#IDL5BL.KP=88:1-X[3*&&(
MX@F%:R@'UBN(C$&4"8H'*,))`C)$P7Q94Z]YC.$D6]TLOD;APH^*'D(RP6U[^+7Y*.F'L?_M8KR'TVZSHRP@6E)D8NB$`0`8$!YUI%UI!
M`:K4"S]Y">=4GO9`1*LE@4Q`)$_)-1[\?H;C\.Y+O]4T6BK\T0U=4_^I:;IS
M=W/;NP-3XL[0=$.S3>T.1@T)?C\CP5W3;3G:G:FY5LMH]M6^T[%5R]%=M6WH
M'57O]2ZT3K.I:?W^G0Z/?>32R86S0UOHKBV7RW?<
M^Y,]J#;=.+UNFZD('_-1L%W5Y>ZR]IO/+
M"(U)&)(X8C_OZHX%V6UZC^FTUO1NS))%I82^.ZP`3E_D;DF^7MEL+>1-@/3!
MAACSZ73?:E'?=TWY9+I`04RK+ZSS*1W\6SM#:TD>5-
M\%*:F*8@;D:50,.70Y,>6#D7L13&%I2BK%H??
M*39T3$5SY9Y.&7'3C9)D+1>1!91[H0:PFEXHE&1$XW0X0@/A#^-?54NYG)1D
M4EJ,5\?VHS?>$5JX&
M:?8'`^SS8-C+R(_'@0/JF
MJ8.$#'-).H3%E@&O^GK3._NH+>3SJM:L1_GZ%'L,]W#V_V74Y0&A":9>^`\<
M!E^C`-,;'C0L`EK_P!$/`CVE1$Q[FT1,U\I6(6_-`M-/*"EGFZ!<.IEG;1;DDP\,T_-EPA>_X
MS1PA/F&0*(628
M7@U$OV97:U:%//`6GU"//#F'?-?:=K0!MMQ[1ZJNW8CFK9
M/4OM]-V^VM3=;K?7ONBW-6M6J#^U/^X?/5;1_I)LK-:&B>]3=T
M^;E[]:E?K]VV_[=_(ZRX=&[YO2I>F:=H[&S$P2)"'H,?PC!^9+^^ODD5S4QQ7)F9$_91!_))*NL3HF67AE"[%8N:2[\1%8A=?3BS'F5@4UW+D
MU%)-Y:0KMB;3%\J,GZ-5*'%8YO?)_#X)E@1K3[$?Q4S&G.TC)O-]1&G"'M:$
MM113>N&K:@)9BJM+_TAY\;,5JRS<157)P@)MA37*,F.NH1MV8ML
M-"O@12Z&ZTS2`>[/YI#,).D:+Z"/M:6T;!G.
M43K87*7I2$(3F7!>EF!`0U-L6V:R/0+45S9"1A-;!L
M*IHNPPN+,"5LF]9E$%2)[$L)E@2KDF`5+KR0'^]($CQFR//]..5'H0YYCE"]
MEL`O07Z^MCRU;^*U39QWZH)%8)C-AO;3.VHB7=0%WK]?@%MX
M5Z;$K]SX%3"[/9#%&7P$XO;IGXA#.FD\Y@GU]=I@8Y93=L-@
M=Y"GN)/5:Q2S-$Q8]LR$QO`2[OKFZ?@!80DE]ZG(^N>Y^=G/
M1#*B<3H`I193Z
M)<4TB=$U\6,%/8Z(/T(C#Q8P69T7]`)9]1OH,JK7ACCB4E!0O-F#C^":05NR
MHY"@"I@E2L9&P`4']=Y4AX`47"J(`I@+3<
M9SR04MY[0^+=@WP3(L_`VF1BYL^T6O(,K/<8XZ_,3C[B^5-[2S7G/JY5NP7MO">BW!
M`"['N)%F04$'53$)96Z2V/^FWGM\G_%)5S2G)"EECH@[*>,
M&E%,HR0G.93"$OL:\2TM,,,H?L!16E'#JV#ZJ>F\PQL@]5.1]9-E5^ALDF.?
M[RI(+<0NXP-F"=^3E?;2,?21WI2KNJKJ(\,JI3XJIK7T1\P8\CU*IX.8/GHT
MD/KI*/:2*?531?63JY52/15!&H5$:54T9VA5S=,B=;
MIOD6#*Q2D*#UMH8Z5W-R+M*GH+>D3/2#>)]A9-A7+LJLSH1[;U8`9X^].
M16`,H!'&CU[DRPV:8ZBC49KO?;#S+C%L/L-Q3%:!9EII=TO[7XYV\K9MOA@E2/U9'^J[`7Y7'\L*`@.
MJ[,KF\\DD[I*,[**&1QSR5DP(F$\>^&_%\P!H8>B1!/(971PT?60BU3DSJH4L[R36$-$#13L9OECIN7N@=P]*!A8@J/-J,>Q]N7M0-6M?
M[A[LL8M(A[39!@OWOUZ5>D
M39[F=?HS90D93)>:\1J5=#O"7![K1$#U6D"8'\9,F!LH&7%S`RJ+O/OX`2.*
M0R_!#"4Q\A#?$.`/QP.X^&`T-'2?G45?KPFJH0FF4'HT1.'ZD0)HB"/^([QD
M0LG8HR2B>M\$3V92-G#"`CXR+/L%C`,*C4Q00^)9B,]3AXQ%@""-+GH.1#>F,M5/);9CUR\
M:,E/(Z[A&4(%AS-J@$W\]*@('@XA2XW11./!"CF#.\^="]:1%#:0ES/SD5'_*API5Y[Q&CD
MP.!S%D2HJQ-)[1@+B
M\0$&M1@1?R1@@0$[]B(.)YKCO2B&,VC/A(`J4Q
M:S#O$+/^-.6=+.;)@?`#;RLO@>'-+81Z>&R]C;K;L&9*A7>[S2@4K\]^V`VFK/V*.A#LV$NKOC(^V`U]'E[N3X$7>R%:`IPLEF'X^>L9W?#
M)Y``(,]''GD`B;U%$JTMDGC7BN5K-.MTMUR'?8DSK;QSZ[@$XQP0M-!X/BS-UN)"C$K=-6??P*BLUYX/2[1S5.[$;\/#.9Z>[]-4
M6`-Y2S+KB[QG'IM_M5R56Z=K!+65O.*1X",)'_LB+
MAJ#5>3_@$V)NGNW6!5S[PV0(/2?FAC;[]?42W-+&50$:+Y!@9L[G;^A<7??Z
MURJL>OYH?[F!(GRHH#=AL(ZYCRET`;'(\7'(O?8^6!3SZXD7!+/K?#FD:]I/
MO?Z37'BMX[/PRFJD@]O-A
M/9>5C9R2X6-2"._8;]6-'V`/;Z5:)PPG+&8([W_`7D7]B#LHGEFB)5#*[]G_
M69,$-[L/V^+3%WDXT;WC$*,?773O(&HZZ+115EU9S$#M3K8F5&`!."01=\3R
MY2%W%SQ'2,9K["M>8Y,8;,65,=L5B^+8C',SC]8I?&2'A'*W])J*I9GE@/*`
M(?EOI_'Q*1:[MKFS&"5QO<9PDH18T@4?+Q)?DOA4+`S?-D\RO[PX"%^BM@FU
MYDF2NXI)\?S6*>4RFDTI/)AD=;=Q>4>2[X;Y>8IJ==XXBB0L:V'-U,=Q="*XOFHI.?]!,&/
MB]AD::R6"K;2A!I+$KEGUH;D)2N8:2C!DF!5$JS",?[U4BJ(QCBEWXC0`/V5
M>C3!M%[C?"\+2IL%J1#%GC_BA&]HD4"0L?TM4_]%]=IEXYKS@GEI0,0-?,=T
MQHZC6=S7#?_;2LXY1'&0^H)7C.;\,ADG#Z>0BQA&]U/TP;+U&6-$`_U[1$+,
M*Y15(UBM@."66ZY!7O1E<\@S*5!V)%)&CT=Q#)7'@CPO?]UDY#&<
M5Q#:YHU))!S[.1W0\QSLY3ID!(=3P2G#XO"!TP`QEJXP,";4B]@`F@RR.^%OJM4G,&.$V@,51\Q!7F6ZLGOS/K4R*=$\#.`,G>
MF?%*YA++RL[H@58+%P+P0A:C3$[9/A`\R]+[/P6W8[S<4^JU^^ERCYP%(\R'
MEI,-+5TO'OT6;RA=:=CR4`?1C[UHBOX$G<0"XN?<5>M$@]V
M++0U*>FN:\^DI"#&R:SX/MN"]#`/60^G*[H"!!_&7"/RDKPT&<54$&0*\D->
M`\`ZG3-N95I%/)EU>MYSUA@Q.:=-?LV(!F^]IU[&VII2?`L]K@-U__:Q7D/HM]F=G]/Q/:97@TQI\=GH!@_%
M.T5?A(>N\>#W,QR'=U_ZK:;14N&/;NB:^D]-TYV[F]O>G6G;=UQ%:;:IWGU75R^Z'4VU^LZ%ZNIMN&P:O7ZOW=9MS18-
M_VG_O^S
M=^Z_;>/*'O_=@/\'(:W'/+X4BT[9.;)Y*;29.#@/P9+2H`'#-WV-94*^^F_LZ6.:^=X4!SH#FK
MIGZ*DX1`=811G2\DX%-E\17GQ0$*>E.FWG"?1MXZDWLC,P]X$2W-7;O7W$/0
M<5%T_'88TS2K(RV\_JQ\4-`?8?2'=^KT40XK>9,."86:[ZV3!V7>VYUG(_YJ
M)`AO-$N:
ML.5@+1/K`@\!/'0I>3U-I_Y(ZT^C'@[X*T./.[8*FBR^U1(,.Z`#.J#7`3H,
M/+`#>UVP`SJ@2PE=CD!G/!X3FIU),?$G1-$C/073[JXHM8)ATV#3`!W0`1WV
M'=1!'=1AX`&]'M`%#)7RPQ^S4SQGM=&T'LF*!!_9CL3LNJDC5$+N+XF%UQ*["R"Y%W#0K5C"('PB-LAHIV5$_/J^"
M\;AZXV1Y!/W3-\82-G^;US:L=D>!'@"SMV=S+$S9'%V6.\W,Y<A05T]':`KTMO%S"(>A'324S]E#`A\6VJ?M1#%+6\34Q&NRM*8`76K$3PMHW=
M:S7$KENBN-FQ,BW!^628)K(E:@C>-CQ;E(X.\&7&SPVWXP!\_,;@ONUAJ"MPW;1!RUAN!U
MUQ%E_H)`:AF!U+:#L$H-P:LP7P5T0`?TNIAX*8*H-^F04"V,'DB2\G.3$$$M
M9^N"Z2*:5D/P&-``'=#K`!TFOJ;@T=MK"!TQAQI"YR9>P87JLVUF2]ADXK-?
MN&NKU"%=M/?BYM/-EW?:W\SLYV2I-.Q=DZ'?(_QELW^REP]].S&.?7D`7>$EN&TI:M!0!"[``"[``"[``"[``JX(`CGU@
M`.E9;\@W60W.4T9Q/<9(0
MJ(XPJO.%!#'M2:`X+PY0T)LR]>;"3X9YZTSNC?2CWDK^1;0X=RV_^FL:,CU8
M'EL`71=`C6Z',4U/4T+'PNO/QY^.O8#^"*`_O%.GCW)9R^P4%:C[WKIYT,Y#
MN_.LATN-9/.-9BU\0=Z+WB)O+]\2KB[9@?;/:416?NYSBB()TV.
M@:W@L5*.%D,($`*$`"'47`B83XDSGQ+SZ,NEBZO`U4^I>=)O]N[#1R=%6T9K
M?LK9/H_-(]LY=QE7EMY>`383R(`,R&`G9
MM@=ZTM*39-03,"YT06@:]L/`3TFBQ7VM1R9Q$J98">6DF5X7F0'RTI/$KH`=
MV"G%#E939GI.&\$A>>G9=@OTI*4GR:@G17CHS[/;,VT0/Q`:\3,0-#_J-1O^
M@$3!X^H]$Q),:9B&!&EUN8T?CM$RVW(H,HS0EF=;+4P`Y*6G5]+U?JY&!F9[
MFLPV.IW$`&W#=!']DY>?8QEMRP%`:0'*N7`289GT(::$/7=]I70?8YM1CGDA
M'KRA\M*;']#+"TRN94V,M=)2Y;,%W)"\]2>9A8(>>IQ@]27J>%*&CZYBF
M`W]`3N_]X!OI:8@2%>`QS0]Y3C)TG?$S`\=!'324S]E#")\$U&?M1#?"C?F;1I>&UL7Y07H-V2Q+R`
MWK:E4#41/JR%CK29'4S()`;H&`[&/(GYM0T7"8\2\Y-DQB)'M&@:A4$X\4>(
M$^6OJ*Z+.(.\]"R,\?+"0_:,Q>E),BL#._0\Q>A)TO.$#!"-QW&4
MQ84FE/0)I3QA+HV#;U@#Y>9LZ>)\2XGYV8;;P>92>?GI5K<2?%@*'1DCLN%_
MD!B@)',RL`,[I=C)9#BE"!#=I$-"M3!Z($G*#UA`="BW+8MPNDA,#X,$V($=
MK";HH>?5@QWZG;SL6IXD/>\U0:)%`]EJ*9GX[!?NVH)H2!>-N[CY=//EG?8W
M,_LY69)G+Y8,_1[A;Y;]XT1[NP?V78_I9S]+5B/23]>>^3WLI?3LQCGUZ`
M'K\DMPWE*UJ*@`58@`58@`58@`58@%5!K,`^,%9P%Z?^Z*F&2!P?>%/^4FW;
MJ[9,HV-B_:T$2\EYSH&ZK@IPI*?=M*2,R&K4L@%+'YVK56]+O]O^SK=WFM69_%A&
M6\YO[NYNKM]I)O]=MIRY_?BO*W;1Y,?B-3813UZXN[G]YH,_CU-TK#_N(9UGY=8
M:R7#FPZ;C8!].XRF\331IJL7&\U>K!]3;4221$N'?L3:IHW9U9P='+3\T&
MNVK`OIH2FOTE'9*0:I2,V&]Z6M]G'YA.3MG]OA-*-)]]HQ^/1O'WY-W^`MJ!
M=%-?[%?;]DM`M9`?Y(P3;^/:8_0K!L$9,0S
M[((P&BP_3_Q>;_%YWF$LT_QER2M@LB9T/1RYN8Z>?\>S?CEY98=>?,79^8U<
M?HW'XK&Y/E9A;](J];9UE-O0VAQI/JV9WF;C.K.VSPTN%?MATF4GY06
M(\G-Z<BVF
MC]L:OKKBYXWS-;VZK.G>/Z<16=O^81J:;5JV!/,^$9;CA9#"!`"A%!G
M(6!R4.3D0,RS6?\\NSW3!O$#H1%/<?\O&.?&V!0$,?HS6(,U!FK`
MKME`+6"5O`\Q90NG:'VE<1]'/447%GETRQQUN>6U!5%FM2V78-AU6Q3L2BXV
M!*-]3#@(?5Q6ZC)/4P![WW&\U16$-OIXJ7UN\'
MWWCY;L4#'X(IN./.E8I-8)MF98@M-''T<=E#9A<
MQ'024S\E3#8IF1T?A(A):9X6%[/3&F+7+5&&+DQ4BJ?=1A^O(75=E"P>=/$2
MNKB%/EY#[+KE"8)=U8C)13P>QU&V*IE0TB>4\K!)&@??GKXY*[AM6(XH
M*@[+5J9E,!Y!M=>.XNJ`[@BS,4Q)=Y&XY%U$@6JN`;HEK-?4/+!:
M)[M:OG;)*L>A4^CE+],WE"L^]45D^MUNBLGP1LA2S^DLY0MBS@OQ!ZK6E
MQF%1M211ROSX(1T5L9'!`7`2&.^:W!(UW+=/6E`D.Z_I'XIDBRU4J"?44V"A
MHH8[:KB_X+)$F58Y:K@?<=Y8:?,^$1:KO/0_-(L,U=PI4E5%SG7&B@>L4C3?0N(`,RC&*`
M)MDH)F#YC'K4&S]\%7NT2CHM#W9$6GKS8CVB&A0PPV0+[,!."'88Z62F)_A(
M)X5_N2[EL2M4TY8#&R,M/+T2>)A-'\/,@AM,7GBZA0XG&[-V)3Y,=+A\.EPE
MUE)F!W1-ZC=7:5`\>%7DI:=;E=##&'X,-!N>,'GA8=(L'[-V&SU.7GJZ)7:7
MD\/Y/(W"()SX([B="[`O79@7:>$)'MH",R0"@!W8"4]`FE/&TCC8-OF#KG%4`V'(2T).:G6VY+:+,":ML\T&8ET-#G!]F)\O+3K:[8^8D''>VFY,ENI>GO2W+;4+JBI0A8@`58@`58
M@`58A)O'^B\7!YOK(R?LH(C0QS#LCI8M;DQ[)-_YXF:=A_7'N-
M?6;/JU)]VBBKSJ?U:3QN-OKA#]([#:,@'I.U/5B:3XDVH>'8I^'H4?/3E(;W
MT^P]M#36@J$?#=A58=1LA%%**$E2C9^'D)QIVY^D]=@#V`L$6=IJ]IW(3\,X
M\D?-!OEKNGIJ;YH]@CWY&TEY&P*BC>,'PH_Y9;>_]B-_D'U@MV1?B>*TV;@G
MHY`\$';O1XV2L1]&8330ID]:0LF$-95]M]F(TR&AIRE[D=.4C/EI#O11"\<3
M/Z39D[1[/V%?C",MGE*-,%V:9NW5XGZSX3_XX2@3!GD(>R1B3?03]A=M:QDP
M^^QI-YQ4JP[OTQU-Y7B:#5Z[S-"8A)C$@ICVF""X.+)7#'9F'V>_R^3*M>*!
MX9Y)D@DYS=!R-6$\4_:%?DP95?8[3H!)F6B/Q*^)2&
M[(:L54&_ICYE"CIZ9/V#M2B,>F'@IS'-WO\%Q3G3/J9:
M.-?+"5.[D*L)O\TTX7I-F:HRS7G4>&\8\R-$N)C[[-O<7C'=9X](>;,W9'B(
M!G5V:-!!+I/1O,[=);E/M8_+AC4;UWZZOF_S?MF^O1IK;F_K?VE9PVX__NMJ
MUB46ZKXYP*W=?6:BYD\XO_ER>?7EE!GY3^\_W[);!/%HY$\29K;ON5;3S*8'
M9,33C@)F,I:?)WZOM_@\M_Z6:?ZR['T!X19L/:"VZ6>8?Z?3^>7DE:/3XBO.
MSF_D\NM*'HN:V]N2W'*M&GO!#-FJ4>=^$M:\_N[^QF;G30X"8'Y8YV:I#:L=&L"@O_55I=UY;`PLMA20LVSB*V6(X.)>:A
M+9=3OJ;:6+2-2*+6N2U5))PXAMG%IE,9N5FRG)TGX&YV;DW\/EM-KPQ*.J3Q
M=##4^N$#:3;XK]0R+E5N&',LP[1Q7H;4`"U;DO/MI9G.S`P0MS>9!4J6)L@R
M88!RSUUO(^U/9GY.NY*3+Q6;[5BF!L.2ZSS<6U)SG_!H0;"9"5A
M@R@VB`H^*%;@D]KVJE[7:#N5'+:HT``I",N6:5A=]0;+PB%C/XZ0Z;*5SR(`
M*Z?]\(%_^OO;:7(Z\/W)NPL_&?+_K_Z:AJS5/)OQ?=2[SM)[^7=OETG'
M=^1'>CZ*@V__:#8T[>^+&]P&0]*;CLA-_\(?!=-1EH9[T_]C.B:49V6RNUV2
M*!Z'$?_T,;KR*4__33X3>COT*;GC3UG>F\W'HY1]^$+ZOYV0>/3U\U7'LSNG
M[,>R+?/TOTW3:G^]O;O\ZK1:7WF:@=ERS*],/F'OMY.P]]7K=MKF5_ORZLKJ
MVMZI]_ZR>^IZ]OGI^P_VA]-+V_G@FOQO[L57BWWM'UPJ;!^HO7CT2C^GKQ[=AY6ITS.
M=A>9G-4]MHH$4D,C/P(R234RMR?:A##;RBV*#+FE%4VEJK\EA""!$`YRH%EV
M#9PR&\VJ,!--S$30_^/I(5<1WP[T)"=4`J.<8\)_\0FPU=^R.-%9$-VAHC,K
M%)V*ME+,I)@_2*K-=P6O-KOR78RS[9_-1C81'L8CMO9*-/W]KT_!2>RQ7^K[
MF\.5/0?'[Z(5V\1@M8QNNW-$\_+P!3_70($MK%2N?IY>[*$ZG1(LK8[1;DG"
M4L6Q5H21]7^SUO/C!QX(]0=$BZ=IDOH1]U+.W$M)L[$Z9V%VLH)^KN@`F\=X
MD>-(VS&<>5@5@VHQX"M,,.L8;E<2XPM^6_EU+$D2/*58XUWRN!_?\D#Z?1*D
M/"J8C3:GV=%'S8;_W:%44G2$Q
MN-64(,8,-R=^75N24X>PDP2;$T2?3P(68"D)JS;QX#SR5!=[D+3/A&K9+J1B
MYYC*)HHC6QY"4-?^B.E!X:?'!YK^_JVJ22=B9'7:9^81&?QPB@B8\V>?X6@[
M&:E)FE8BPF!Q.=\\SH8+5;WIP@P7R!%1S?"TV>=X^O^Q<
M?NB^[PAT4LN:.+3O83IL-K@8PF@:3Y,M%2W[\^(;LSJ*EJV-V=7#)`M\+S\U
M&^RJ`?LJ/W>6_R5E2U;*2Q'Z62W&9?'!9%9DT4]XX4.!9.@,%C
ME7ZLPO'5E6>NE>=^^$]KIK?9N,ZLKX`)S@X*JQ1D>LKC?LXPEG&I>ARRVL+HLQJ6R[!L.NV*-B5
M7&P(1ON8
M=/$2NCBJ.-<1NVYY@F!7-6(RK^G)5R432OJ$4AXVX04]G[XY*[AM6(XH
M*@[+5J9E%5S03GWKQA[
MTK>)P3$\83R":J\=Q=4!W1%F8YB2[B)QR;N(`M5@4>OG+M0E>\4@3O0O(@`RC&*!)-HH)6#ZC'O7U_%'JV23LN#'9&6WKQ8CZ@&
M!ML[:[BSU?
M#$6F$YV5)1]=TN3]]2\I7Q([=BZ^B7*F!=K8D2C./`^'H^%PR`5V,-/5&3W.
M9[I:Q)??R_'8%=)41V!C:@O>>27@@3>]#68*A,'J"]ZY`@.N;I@9E<0P8]0JT?PN8C#(!S[$82=]V!?+#`OM06/\Z4MP`P2`0`[P(X+[&"BJS%X
MG$]T7$:?1Z,D+H/.XY0,29JRM(T\"?X!UWE7"\@B@B6M&N-WKF"=:[,"J*V*
M0,N5@`9C;D?+R'QO9`+05DYTF@G9B?7%[URQ^,Y/W*BTVU%6=CL8?U_2VP+I
M]JU%``O``K``+``+P`*P]@K605?\U0V#E_/RQD<3IZR@9`@2%<6$M[:ZP7:N
M&)`76Q>P5`S9>;4#[1Q7LA0,`VRC20S!QNCZP7:N*GR/L7=ZT!Z39X=9@E7ZJ.]=]^RSI)AX$FA_T,.S8BQ*W"C2
ME/ZFF_LYL6.JKOZ==S/5QCCY(BWHU.S"6=J*KL:HJK2`W%U22L6X;D:+HN-2Q=<=R&
MI:H.U4A?6:<34Y7E9:5L+.&BHKSAD`1Y>$O)%"0C0M7:H5KN$*J&((Q"/P^3
MV,Z;9$!2/V((%)1N]PL7[T)E:$ECMBL;>A-CR;-,RB('N9*-%"39MN/8JN71
M(612%N'I4M1D9E-QFYZKV9JI4P7(9Y^9S9R:S*5%JNF*5*]]
M^5%0S/'=?(W*:?=Z[:\?!7E\MUF(*)J>ZW>9AE2%XXA:T61X>K*@E]*67\WM
M_[KUK-6]5=?T=C8%_;?(\G!X_VC6>M,JVPT1AF'LT[ZSO;7,KI1SR.D)%2$^3WK
MR7QJH[U)D^+Z1OAQ$P;T7R*0._J`,"-4JNLX'(:!3X4/XV%4$-JTP`J_GYY<
M%;DP2%@-GI*3:1*58DT:)F1R5%):%NDI?S%.Z6!,[VF7F$&EJDEI-ZCLCV^:
M^DZ4MM8G*@X;5>6NY+*AJ9TO?PNM;\UVYZO=:[6_">??O]G?W5;/;&:,U@GT2
MRDYW6__Q)@9K)MKBZ\6CUDM'=_8$I]UQO8Y$7>PO]F67-A$D4>2/,^HT7R4I
MY5WI40#7TX>^6[P?R6M7?L
MY&MX[+$^]E#G#)^W8F$41A&;;$4Z2P9DG`MC:L/IZRBS[J4#G/W\G&M2X?H%
M[^=K'J1)4`(H`910&R5LM(%%E9\--QY'@NE"M^#XX0-Z`=/7*,&CKV^#&LSU
MVV2=+(G>I0X/&5V1]*%G2-ZO"JIOMQ:C_\J
M8@(C>VLU/NRRJ$9WX"EPXBDTPRSP(^%OXJ-L?Q68&Z0VY)7)"G4'.R(W4G&UYFWL!/FT__R_W8?B/)O%>KU*08
M(C*V\%9VJK:5.#[_TU[=+*#0:Q!29=$T-:`04&@;*X1E@V)EDFC--D&.;H_((Q%K,.;?)_*FI0/R[P]Y31=GY:7KC7PM(M'?"-OUP[;D
M@1-["'*+!C*/@-M@U=[8'5W450S`OS_@-5&18<0?!/BWWOA,-ZMFS3FV>%F'
M7"J!][HV'A+"LF+NPURVNRVV@_2CD)+(9Y4#/@GSG9\7)KG[)/SI=7JMAOU%
MLK^T?J<77OD9B?G8]A^4+G>00?D>'G#7[Z%MN1`/>ZXGXN7\B\Q.V7JW7E3/?I@O1M&!2NB!:YLU5,;
MN++O$G>N@Q"`^_[&^Q9;P@'W=QFSY-0/AD@EC(>JWA-X-J(P+J[7O`H]"\O2
M;MS)=4=3>NQ@%N(EO2T,PWUK$Z[-=[0%;PZS
M/QB4`$H`)=1%"3#'01$L/I.M*\:-TNT-`2XU0XW7<2J
M";C5#C=#1+H!N-4--YW:25P3.\GAYH?CK5.T^>O-]K8$B;*FUX.3W-J22@'4
M1$65`5D)GP&+F76&3^?7P0;X
M7C'Z:C*U`WRK?+,+HR9S7RTBH$_JFX"W!O,%&)S%^0)2F.H,GPYKUK6U:L
MZPN?6AOX%KRU7W+_*B(/GU_7PW]^CF,6/V
M72EIM_4?[Z.@C^]FKN&B4(\V0!W0R!]GM#]7
M23H@:;G--2`1V]H24/=O_GGL#P:SS],-L8HL?WCLLJX/-2(D12JTN^[IR561A3'),B$CU^6U/V["X$88D"`E
M?D8OCN<9"ECL*YME[EPS]+
M_Z,CU17?I!K[:1[Z$25)GD>DY$DRI/@+K8O.1?="\(M!6'Z5^W>G)_>4"YF@
MRC)F5*/_Z^*45I1(JVF%=>7T9#3A%=#E1;H$'-*E0X81"?*,T8(,A_3'\)8P
M0@@IM3J,',8'85`08>2'<73/J)'?D-,3?\`>/^,4,TSCE-R&29'1BPCMV*@T
M6BN:'";II`E&.-9>.ND"^U+P@[R@C!T6U!26OQ^%=^P!]"9"A6;&2_A.N7MZ
M0MLK^3&AXX70HK^D0.>4BJ)0C*FAH]^/(\*^F'71CV/6^H#>0'L84"EHVJ\'B=AEXS2Y#3/6O9(U(2
M,(ZR#[/APRZ\(C$9AOGIR6281E^5%576D=RG8S<IP>B8Q%0K
M&:7CZ4D1L[F7,'*4BA,8^()/:4,-6_(C^_@LRAL[?TS0JKV_F4X#J@R2KC?$
MTWM,\\/92_9RYO-/;T%K[]C)UY4\]E#53\ZI)9W.Z=EDPKI:;70JC-WR7N8`
M:CV\C;`/HIB/S`%4=EJZHJ;UE/Y%Y[H'TB!9K(%5V29FM20^Y/
M=7NNOK6Q!>-GW/*Y(OQG$A7T/2742^0O31=I_XH>]:OK=V"\(RI/VU.
MTQV6:EZE!D47#<78HGM0!9^_T@HK@?^X9)+_YY]9?_PTT%[S"[,VD6>
MY7[,J/=7N=!`!O8M2?UKTB$LLXM^WZ`RIY/\JQY)1^J.,G6:LBN;MH$DQS1L
M"=NN)]D*UB45-QI-34,(VT9?Z2MGGR_5OY6O*G8?5%:!U(MJ]V9I6*TR:ZOG
MWW4HG3J$JB8(HW"2%^7?=>19
M9E/"#G(E&RE(LFW'L57+4V3#I*K$[(41GPE%'$X>/Z:\.OLL7]"O'W2[N6A+
MS`QNR*"(2'OXU`Z4T#-4W3DV3%MB3<
M-*DN&LB23,>S$#)T6?5B-6
M1QYK/5CFPZ&&1WF8FU>Z`D\]2Q@N?*?'U"+AA;HJ*RI*U#B67$5H452A8-HV
M#%Q1$+'*QRB1B)LEQ/*G)K'E>LN`,Y-WIV/8G)"0U75+X'&FZF3%$#&[E;
M9JM\-9EW<5%X59\2^(\2>_W5P'$#>#U3JUL3W[U+#94PMEDR
MY',5NHXKSU`)@Q/5026,E[K%9U2WX_\06.W`-/0CJ'ZQS]UFTQ-C-^L';#7C
M+R[#\QFDO$?Q_TK2?X0P9G5W`I(=J>'AK&B$I8,!VB/J52[@K,@:J($AXM,C
M:H9QF-V005GV'BS3(2R3B;9X?0#3Q+-I4D39Y/YE(^P@LKDP1$!4%MS3UR@)=D$!$91Q2*@%R0=YT+4KGS`6#M+7'GN=2;
MQ22=1I&F]-+FY/RCGG_GW;$:&\29'$NTBPH6DKZ4M8,:V'-,K2%AI=F45/GI4O2+,$JS2)WWONF>?%0L;$R?R0>(7Y%@^KFB<
MDF!2WF(G$II+$BJFW'34IB&Y#E8EK#609!K(E#S7$ZVFQ3M(=NF'@V]D-[`M"^6X*E8:V)6P;5"A#%F3S(9%L6LZV+)<
MA&7+?$XHI#T5ZFG7%T6S(TI95KRG+/'B+%>!F8*\%Y8:IDZO]&S);'J>A)'<
ME$P+-21/MFQ3SG,<1X6=S7B?,$W?+@/7=ZKF,K+@LD?4OB8,)Y.\M(
MGNUGI'I-UW$<36JZ"I8PQH9DZ9XBF7:;(O"VUXIF,KU&IIMFU*
MV&KJDJDWL619CMNP=:/AN+BOK9=6TQ4++8O[J-/KJ@PWK/0K0JS7?FY
M^E!>P/2E@!5N(X,:S/4[3/CN4H>'C*X>'TF%MDAOY='B'$R7+@F655EE,GV=
M5?G53X,;T./6>ES>"01JW$B-#TD/U>@./`5./(5FF`5^))1E7O>_S>QH7P+@
M30B4`$H`)0$#`XF&BHZ`)!Q6
M="BSZ%@]AV&842&OB2H&A^@](H]$K,&8
M?Y_(FU#`YSTBK^FB8AVAT\IG))IM4@O+S5_@Q!Z"W**!S"/@-EBU-W9'%W45
M`_#O#WA-5&08\0UB%_7M33Z]IX2`C+BKD//0DHB/P]OR2=A?K;$A4GN/@E_>IU>JV%_D>POK=_IA5=^1J(P)F5SY_YD
MBQEM7P9UT3)X-J("C`R.0_6.GX6!0/PT#N/K3#B/DBS[F>U?
M/3TI-[`^%0C>?'8^AN4+G><1?$2&GS?XZU#D^!WB?BY?R+S$[7\&
MO/>.MWHA\_*F>O3!>C>,BIP,P)6M?&H#5_9=XLYU$`)PW]]XA[/,#H+[6V_D
M.&;)J1\,D4H8#U6])_!L1&%<7*]Y%7H6%C@7",X%`K``+``+P`*P>``+"H3P
M601KS[7YCK;@S6'V!X,20`F@A+HH`>8X*(+%YY)E!2=D*FR_G/;FYU9R'":W
M(=
M;&]+D"AK>CTXR:TMJ11`3514&0"L+X"JJ$W/.P$`:PD@$O5I`4L`L(X`:ICZ
MTS69`VL1#SO64CQ5)*E*YQ>__V;NVWL9U)/UN
MP/^!R'8#9P';K9MO/:VD>XYVD^Z)&OJJAO:ZY?4P^]10&S6T
M%!IJF`V]K4@04\+USR?%7T(6D0J>E-VC?FJMCB*K\^A>"N'KXF:FRO!URAM@
M(WQOL#Y%AG:$KR@V:W45&?N46`%]5M\$HS46BXW*F%P$PRGC=P`04(0#T:'?['M('2?_GAV(U37M\V+(NGJI,7_"^KPLGW6`S(MT
MO$5_9-M/&\QEGEW_5\)C=SQ=3ZG@?E=\./=M+W$8)Y3<2#7Q"?:=>J!DL2QQZ2>!&/`GYRW?K:N6H0FCBLOQ?2Q7IN"+G!B:)HE5`W^[S0R
MM0)%*E8KJZ/7:Y-4KU!=7E47NX3J\I.-/6;'7*@%&X_AHWO/A$*0"+R.4([N
M9^(DC$RHZWM3H1KQ':O7J".:SW5*.*8P8O=ND'"XB0%C$^FT"DB.@R@E(11.
MT(M2%L1%0NTX`8T=)^`*Y>\3]U$T``\QZ+1P7N0OT-UZ#>A)_4C5L47.X4@%D,M)2P99G$0^!\4'5F0/A>,%
MON8]$K>%47#OESN6W>OKXX[KWX]ON7A#=O*0V_7MEWS$D\=C'^[P1\!XN\Z9GK
M4]\&+W+N@Z!`!-#K:T'GFCW&)UY@__JC7B/D]^G;9/F\:P
M;32M_O"D>3SHZ^U0?:,:9=C8\N]'AL3^$+#)1O!!9Z49Q:'549(XIG?<8
MY#4HCU#8P`>3XJ"P]9H[DQ:A4EQ@':E(P2`C>/=/3/Q^]YGGSV4/VB+'R
MB8U:\A,(Z;E_?-*/']RRBMVR.PW=WS-[(=3GU",T1
MS1'-<0N@KU7/5N\LB`2+`SZY0]U22%L+W&2=OZ$OYN?_E?@+EF!JCK`Y4O$]YC8I=9
M9*:EA[*$AR5_T.@7BUW_MIGE"U4SJBC9**,W#`O?D7Z(P+8_J\N
M=EVB;G11SD6,4[@WHG9OM@1YD#AAU7,@XMTL"Z`@='LH0K"J9+=9"Q%&97$HU0L(J
MD_P0\=>T<6`9T-1?5X.C/XQ^5\O^YF)Z3[>6!3)@
MHWC@!*Q39?3`F:-D]Y9K]D]TJ&Y,W2C[(2M_YP7^;1.$
M.JG7'%"6AJA%YR5.7DD,U"H2]?S"($JKZ,E"8I]TO=5?+!X*5\R64:]EEQHD
M8CQ,B]5YTQ:YOG,Y"T7EO%:E&+1DO/KS1$Q;UYBPU"5XM+
M%_PPS@K%PNLU6>]45K:$EKXSH$=>PL20SPMPL##=K`!:!PO38;/8[.:;W541F0&,70/PA;+-\JVF;JG,QQFU
M&?F'&$RWV^_]DRQWM;&K.,_0'$7Y.P+.LU'[)61*48'LYRMF4_KZ?Y52I6%>
M>1JU";7IPVBHHS9R:C.'X;6QO/1JA`JU7X6ZI%/4)M2FC;JG>@T5"17IHVZI
M5%JT5E:ZT7MQUU#1G-P*IW!L:?GAMW-_SM..WKVP?Y)EKSN*0D`A[-W+H#A0
M'&J)XP#+-9?G[EUM$_T9Q.P#AP$.VD!P2$4AH!#0.Z`X4!P87"ETMQ(%+:]8
M&+/)B$5SE3*ZC84OFFX^US&%ST_OHU9_0].PN-W'8-OGT4BMU>NV/R.`R@*H
MM\``$4!U`?Q!(_MNX:1YN\I8'BJJ1A=1K0"J!1$EVFM5D57%9DM8:'CYE)@N
M#XE9E9IJ[5-7#9QSJ8U?J]_&D%UA`,V69O410'4!_$&G!`.W2D`I0@U2Z1=Y
M'0R4?P;W,@1'TZP&G@-F9WBJ`:>RFUKMY4VM`NO!F=::NUO=-LZT%,:OU3%P
M=TMI`+M]!%!A`.4^"`9T50+30#"K`.8LD$3KK!J@JEAH"7>NSM@H2FBT4.BA
M)W>O.CBGVI":XHQ*9?2,5AO3S=0&L&,9"*"Z`#X?H1197L5Q\;V1!^):`5R/
MD]N$QZKL@2"8;P%3$PC[,M/)^%T1[AY'KJ1*O(9:8#'A(@&:3`57,4XF=JA6Y@4:!C'&&
MM5;;;9Q?*8R>A?,KY0'L86Z@P@#F(Y0JPSX.AV^#4Y%\(X03,P$/#$Q%++.$
MVU4%>7\FYOWA*2N,XV`>C%E_R@-H(8`*`XA9?Y6!$K/^*@,E9OU5"T_%L_[*
MN4U5G`=H81X@Y@%B;"?NM["&A?(`=C`/4&$`,0^P0F!B'F!UL,0\P(H!JG8>
M8!FF4RNR_BS,^L/Y%$9SXOYVR\3YE.(`=G0$4%T`,>^OFG`JDEV$WX&!
MJ8AEOF4^E3-H!QX/*5RP%J97=U'.W.G%]XN?7\E_:/+O:*8(T#%^1QTF>B8_
M')$O[\!^53-C^3*'-!]>)[[X=:1]M?:MQ`Y)$DDBR]"15XU/UUL]UO`EG4@222))E4FJQJ\:)%7C
M5PV2JO&[YR!TJ:T[)@*=;T?MHU7L>+XOYM-G]X_$A]/`
MOV=1[(X\1@9L%,NV1S.6RF)R*XP#%@7%6>>*L
MEUOZ;5AX,JKPOAI6+!3;0#U5L_"E\LA25RW0ZE6
MBZ1J_.Z:)"9VJH47DD222!+'$/5)JL:O&B15XW?/\4Z)$SO)F-I,*'QTWL;^?CR1E%7=0.K!2!))(DD52:I&K]JD%2-7S5(JL;OGD/3$K+_(>*K
MUO':??'O2927<6!N:_$P;W3+S;RP1FGB&B621))(L@2NN1HB0*DJ0E(U?O')Q?7WQXRO1PL=9Y/&OA,?N>+H0
MK+QGQ>J8DV!,EI,@34TF01KU&O4=\4EOD/B.$7I[&[%;&C.2^'021#'0<8CC
MLUAH[A!7-_V$L?U;R45.XDB!K>'@D#@-\@#
MY>13NT,FKN?!!2(:_=3MUVO9A0:)&`^9';OWS)NVG@LX?$V$O14B7(;SC4M\
M7G:ZY\\@9ERV/YIQ\CZVMHOL-EA0M3!M-^8,3E/&$`
MY">]9;3)*#,\Z.!2\)RX6Z)'P8U+1%I$NO^G..;^/_7Z0O8VC:*I`&AZ)B/I9Q^@%V3$%L72
M`#,!#$'Z-ERAXG\WLI.)6(X!8&3"S![&!;H&`;L
M@DZ2-_11*K\_!3-V)Z#>?\U]!T_'=Y8^%=)IVM$D%!)=BBCJM2+#G#1`(1$]%4Z^E&OFB'(!F+NH%HR)Y_*J72*>$2!$,/2[PL''`4B!P0,`"]Q/
M[7ET)QKS7`JV[H@T?)W5*]EN(F1X()]7TFG@:I1FPL9,JE
M>/W`?^I"",054?``OJ9>$QQ`'Y@O7#$H,!=.E\4S=*$P9`SU/#
M",+4M(,?!X+$!%G
M+84-BW(`5^H[++6Z52P(68%F95UR9#RUJ!U/9+%()KV#2[,4P]"3*5[$//%?
MYJACF;;B)_*]+\#D"\X3AGK@VIOFJIMC*I"BH#"1^XMEX9&BK"7-0+LN2I(Y'V"5$7B/,3A'R+\UGAK2(G59)7C+\T$UPQJ2%7++J'SI=X
MFZU`S#VYG`/D"L4>X2($$60*-LGSB:10DK1HBTS$,
MGL$#__K^'J^8;RY/9HTWS&;E`E'>PLG%S\'P9_/TXOOWX\LK(&$#@S3D[$@,
MFJ!-7;2I).6LT5*XBPQX2I14JQ%#"-_R!!EJ5TL`/N,X/JZ*I3GJ^
M*NZQX$VLJ)QKM:VF8I9$#3NHAAM20Z/11A^Y6>7LHG*BC]RS&E[/EAE1&3>D
MC.UJ36P.U*V6G>$![FS;[%K@_!#(>W2KET:W2)76?BARGD+J.W/J<
M)M@N:9OREV=Y9WK>69NB9EI7O?S5$SFB_._N:)FOK
M5INLD:S]Q7'OQ;??OR2\>4MI^%5L.0^`*2_@2<2NV6-\X@7VKS_J-4)^SV^Z
MLN^8DWCL8GSNV\&$G3#H"TL_7]/'`?P'PK./?>GZVLU0/^N8IT:GJ9\>GS2M4VW0[%EG1K,SU/7>:>_,/-/Z-SH\]H?H:M;3
M_:G$7ZVKE@1+:D.:#BV@PB[7PR4]SW_?V^'9BK\:7W]
MWH8E!:V?J/=+4A#
M*2-L)=P8/%].+2*_QUUAO=\PM+X:[@@!+`*P
MW;#,GAH`XK[^SE7Y-;D5[5MN38H(%H*%&3,RBEVU?UC-D+8C'C]'E:
MY0E7XILS7.?QU$B*R=M.L/2TH_-D]YQK]G1NV;3&O3.FKW>V;!IG@SU
M3L=L#[I:NT09EFE9S\5LRH):1*\60\[K95+.`UO4('-DBS$L:B8\KJS[GR;\Z9GCFSQB==V=X
M&OM)M<1FL5F5FMU5PN,@860`OE"VN;55A[*EF9V)UXS^8_::T7*NMNP@3^_]
M(]9*(FOA2:(0*BL$%`>*XP#%@8*KRF5GMY4ZO`>G"FM>;N5E>5]P1CG%>X.=(Q
MJ[($@F&\!4Q'+5&)#JRA7L.`EG#C;6G,'"W,%5412;W&.U,E2TK6M4GDLYV;O?N2HDC(X@Q%J`C2MN;77S=(2K(M.W[1
M"\'I;&TFDL!&HY]&=P-L-#0&D/(`2P0FY0&6!TO*`RP9H'KG`19A.?5(UE^#
MLOYH/471'+9O'MFTGM(BIG
MT!6!G#OP16-M>36-,=^^4%V#_6
MS43]60(6\$F\UN>-[\737]_5W]K[3N,&(DDDB63A2>K&KQXD=>-7#Y*Z\;MO
MDGM-T+%>N:-\*6(G>#@.VCU^W>YQG2[I)))$DDCJ3%(W?O4@J1N_>I#4C=\#
M!Z%W^IIR#'1^?==\]Q@WJQ;W=^2H]3-:OV#'\V4QG[EL/\9_]$5XS:/8'P><
M#?@X5GV/ERP59R'6D5;KZ_;>C4LVGG5&+\Z%>S4&T#SJ-.@R^6().W;D53+15(W?O=-
MDA([]?OVQJ:AFA95"R"21))(ZDQ2-W[U(*D;OWJ0U(W?`X>F!63_3<0?V\=K=O%_
M]Z*\C`-[5YN'>:40`4E5$Y*Z\7O00/"7V!D'
M?.VSYU_CIW_^DLC:E>/,/URX4^XE`1]-\/S(:2CC*)GQ,):7_#8^"83[YV_5
M"F/_S-N?AC&/N(S/'-]C+C`!S7@N]UJ?;?JIE5OV?7O$+)XW/5G3B!_?5=KO6.^]^L[W_O>[';:]>^#?G_8
MZG;[M4&CT:PU3DX&M5[OI%.1?.S&TD;W(EWYX-4@B^/L,OA?>I7.[$W$,6X-!Q[+KM6&S>U)K#-NM
M6@==(>G)@]$(?UF#A,JWU?'%L=]%UY7DR=B)\XDGM('XC#HR(<
MS?'O7NA!/Z!:0.PL:G?D=-(ZL1MFJU[K]\Q.K=%O#VHG5GU8
M`Q(GYM"R^A_[)TIM?L-YD$V#>SORV?;[Y>CL`ZO/;Y?[\2>CR\O1%_7=Z_9L
M@^RXUD4,\ZFFY%.MK$M(SH35?.'P1R)C?[)86VN\A/G?
M.9MQ1R81AR>0_7'*OKO&/F`H8^;$##2+744.4/>,0'+*!Y=^RYGX/ND]:Y;=\W1\\:S-WQ0UL44:3D=N[+/_N@XF#!HBT9DW;+
MM)K==KO6'WX$HPL?:MU6IUNS&R>=0;W3ZGVT6JDQ^2J8=`(N46.-J/=KW6'W
M8\T^Z;:M?KWQT6H/MF%X-2&FSFA,X51^TP0%_=(/&4W02KYTY]/LF?A>_0#D@D,G/^
MY!%86U1:M/M.N%@)KGLL65\].;SE;H*&BXTF$[#`D0%V_=KG-Y+!AQB"BFH%
MYKH3NCY,$#\$-9\I+M<9D:GFPBSP$>@06LXC,4&W`'X"=%A6*Q)GC(I2X37+!0Q*C?\,X8V[,:/I^S;T<41^]3KG1VQ2Y1'ULTZ%ZJACU,S
MI0&^2,(`E1CUO$0G@8W#2Y$#1=#$5`14*@D0KT8@]D-ERB!*B_8&)P]*E1JCG/\CMAY1DV`
MGN8]H)&,'!?@39^$$8/Q5)&(,Q-Y5)"KP'K`4ZU$/%"A\YVH!QRCQZ-@@;H.
MBNTE2!L9S\(6X`-=GU3:!IC"\'T/XX&)C_&+TK(5#YG8E@RD*IJ-+Q9*#CAL
M5!M9@MB?!RO)@`5,I6*@0T[[2_E8[W5)"FP@
MVH6E_JP,!@ANS*=.,%%:>4^#A@[TG:(@;19+-9W!"CN?YJ65?6OZ4^>6\
M!"US`(%HCNK(68!XI\KW4.5!(.EL6,[<=:7=-"-FRLS+]1]6AD&I7,J.F'R`
M2)\'J$4!6-VK8\9G\T`L.,^G$1ADB0$[(`CX^`&,"R#)->4XA2L/]O*UA]++
M9(Z^(]4*4.*-:L%>H!4@PPUJP39K!>MG%DSI*(H_$W4M%74^,5DVO>](L-6:T]E
MO0);<1QDT43J0$(+,.%NI3YQJMJ.N`25[.NSFL
M@J-L,8PV/\&!/@AU`'08.$H]]RDW8)]O.(*?AF&@GVGHF/I9C\BKE8TA^6HO;FUU:!\_-[2O
M5G)"8";!LH."R'PUDEOLO'U[;;$E%[!:F8&Q14U5^GT'CW@:B>1J>J#6Q?,FHPSQ[Y"-7W>6(JL
M]Q?X!V-M#77QWY_O-ZI6AK,Q]U#Q/9[N(D)TB&9!IM)6ZRN8/7*U/CM:^[):
M6:[:T`BH=F?@E7P82,[^?7^HZ"ZYPHWA4&+X"DJQ[**X0:F/Y3/BX
MM3.\=:.^D@T6H3/S7;E<5"_=:9&E^F!W`P9R;WOC,>'^>&.D
M6GD@9&6M_S,6M\QNU1F_0R(W#&NQ3+7R;Y`E3'&,"/+'`)8_%_/,6.>VZ&P*
MB\HM"OJ8*1E>G/[?$!IE[ZF6]C1_:?PCZC_:>WT;BMF>]'+31L&W@G)
MWN,6W\\0E*$'A#6]@'4)"&P54&:AK$1G!Z$];A6^(OQX9*AWY6@]0Y#J#7O>
MP\GH?#`\K_5'GS_WSBZ`A-IQF4O^CHU%Y/%()>RY$'#*.:PEPZOEYSFNF+//
M66J?6:__]/BV][TGY8SYT6F4[!'[T2>V\O7?J=M]E?U\?QJRF1\$
M:*U_?NK=\0'3;8I>MVTO)$D(&@CA554L3.O)W&U-RUB4HICAOJSP_W(G@K`2
MUXIW2_S9=4,#H_R6D['W)(')`;L=\>%)[DYT)HGNM:*K'U!T9"M?@%7V:ET#
MLZC'E/H;AFDDA)(:G6)6;7[QZYZ'P&E<9V5IN/_Q>I.]A=(K.1=FQ^B8G3>P
MLHW**SDSCV)2S!"NL(5U`-1VIWT0*'4X3E9LW+IZX/:4T59;1ZE#E3YWQLQM-/?`KX.+EAVF-Y%MV[%MLH]NRR;F4U#B!
M=3(;>E@G`G#30J9K-"T]W4LQ%S*/IFV3W]FKWP&][C3)[933:G6,3K8Y6GBC
M1?AMZ+MEF+:>3J<5"EWH]
M"%+H4J^"190$%H%52K">O$B':@IM=I,E+NYSH&ZIIM"FK;QBGL[="TD2@@9"
MH)I"SQ*%KD?6=V:%J:900#6%J*;0(45'-84TL96C9>G8TZQT+-Y92;%K@4F2
M$#000AF-4#&3VZG&D++3Q7C#:YI&MTXUAG8(^"%JU0"H;4T*"Q!N:[A9AMG5
MY(U[`5/:JL#M.)Z6T:K<9#C-_<1)-Q>B)O=/DFUU*^Q!GAX5#J):-`06@46%@W2*5(N1
M5KI)#)9IM*F(?\E2%C9,Q;77+T5
M'?-`W,#/;I!X\(V'7>,K4\EBP8#.1$0S)I*H6O'QC6KH!,QQ722*Y.>PI'!]
MKAI_.[HX8I]ZO3-%UQ717$2PVJ@%_)H'U8KCQOZU'R]`KC"2.7?]B>\Z0;!@
M3AQ'_CC!>OQ`QF&27R$'1^P"A*%:A?&/NI\Z,?/\R81';!*)V1HS$0^`"Z!<
MK43`29AP^,H50#GV16C@T/$PL8RAE7I7[`:.E*K;M`&,IEKQ^!R>\M571T^N
MGPZ!^)J@U.`R]$%H,";);G@$T$HV$0&`+3^\G'\J=94_TCA,S:DR=DNEKC9M
M/A?SD/A>2)(0-!`"E;IZEBATK9RP,RM,I:X"*G5%I:X.*3HJ=;5=6UG,S.?^
M8ROO)Z!ZJ4;)9#F,L]'%Z>7IZ.N'=*7M7_-CMEPB'G4X+!+_9WA^>=KO?:[U
M/I]^@H9C1W(\3JK(O7?2F!Q(;E9,>C>YQ>2Y>O^L@%DG_5,1$Q-2YKFC!!+Z602FCJ#G[%OJ(P06>T)+Y
M\2_X8@*/S$3$\60;-#7K/S$Q81-?ND[`%IANC)FV!OYM&D@?4R!SQ(]8EEQ@
M``_9B2^@.5ZH+F?.']#^BHLK"`2GOLN<2?ZQ6`N%B
M;0V#W4!#.FRU-NU??]C*/LRIIS)V2X>M-F=8'VA-=7B2)`0-A$"'K9XE"ET/
M$.S,"M-AJX`.6]%AJT.*C@Y;;==6%C.#,%V;5BOIXI1.6/W-7R+;':/3*$K&
M/+TOWE;&O%&O:U()D'!;PZUEF&U-+L4JX.$KE1R?[G-'CR*'3]DLR2(_5#=B(&)W"*Z
MDH0OJQ5_-H\P0=]UH%M,
MTH?6'H]Y-/-#O.P#Z:QE9$N11&Y.#%3+G=FA2D]/:#T=$I//Z3H*#U]N[:RF.GI7WPW$E),8C::
M3'`E*!!!38MHIR95,IO$:`]@Q+%T`U&+!J95+GHLGD_E<1'&UDB7D
MT6IF'Y['-KIMJL534LME&W;;TL-R$7X;\:L?YC[T4BQE>MXUCV)?@J,A5[(7
M5V)VZ`;;DIHBR^B:M(C1&;^FI4EY/BT6,70K^K[<2L-HM>GE?DG-DFVT&UT]
MS!+AMQ&_1EM/M_(D@U3KCJTN780PQT,QN7JY68L$D
MOYIQO+L;+X?VP[1R%HLXIM]@5DYVI7=:I>R(]9CZ081,3-2]W_`A+6&F\G)S*ZK=H6,9;7BXY-,7/-HRATOYPZ?!^ZX
MXTYS%@W5@Q\KNJO29P&O5I#W1!5=6[]WW(.'0&JJ#EIZ0SD6/[O/>\8=F15GRYI6*_-(3(`UX",04AX]N:(ZA`Y\%N%5+?"O
M812.4@>C6DGO=$>0)W[HA""!`(8HXRA)-4(=)7%N\P?8@UN_LSN\4VU0HG&!
MI4BH&GC`F1,GL8@6\.UL[H0+15`IPO*.G&H%@U3N-S)SO/
MLWI)18YE#X[%-CHV.9:2&B?+Z';H9(_.^/T_>]_:V[B1K/U=@/Y#P\@"'D!T
M1(JZ)9D`DB7G>,]D/!@["=[SQ:#)EL4-12J\^+*__JUN4E=+ODBB1%)/LHO8
M,E7LKJ>ZNJJZJEIO%,A%064/BD4`%L#:T9DI*GN.,HJ^B@V:7FFU$5E/40@R
M4@VBJ16]E9/.LL#R32S55DY:HZ&R!_4'63,,8_7%(=\GM30].S`=3Y2.W/"GL.MXYM^_EDN,_3+Y0H_[]H,1V@_\
M;:W1N!69?-5&K7I+L[>MSR>V=5MOMYK5VYZN-QOG?4VI]^L]
M16_VNDJW4^TIK5JKINE-O5,[;]ZJ]+5?Q9R3*2]Y-.\HNEA?Y/!12S<2/WR]
MNNFS.DM6"$U.)VJ]_O?+/SLWEW_VKR4^T6JK]\"%.7]Q%@6<65/H1474K`8G
M]-C(RPV=1CB2:)E?B
M@BX>A$R4T01Q!97I[0=AY+L!S22^288-#--V
M;)&3)4N_!IYC>XR`Y[ZH!8K+?\[85>0S[^X_7(@HE\5DY=+0HT5B6H8&K)CCVQ7WI06CX^+BS=M&HM#$Y&3%T1$;1`G&?=&MBG*OPPS3$J&
MB'O\:2Q70R`JA.C[\3"<9_J5>.$%@4U+-1[D;#"BV?2];XQF@R*VTS3OB9-Q
M[1>IF&&Y]$]$0`_BZB7+DR5TDX]$W=F0%B=GABF/B^1(?6Y(7IZQCN.42_0%
M8I'A)#5HP:2D3I11<<=[E(5Y24V9K#'[X^SZ;((JL4!@2DI/B,,F=66M->*[
ME6MYD>3+*U]S*`R^P?:(1`(Z5Y)3PJT&"EBJ*E2'2';"!D?!AO8?/UA6?ETC>?EIX]II?-E%@\2&NZ*"6'(M^K
ML'\;8\,5R_V9NQ76]6GZP5`P(G*M&+USTA:6;;BT3AW'\&D!2C:^2-MG8O^+
MBS]7_DVMS-4BOEB_4[4SE0C^9)(BO>=S;`](^<5%BS\TSIKL+J[=DJ/\0:V>
M-2:?5,HE$HWQ1&-EKW+T8EG^Y$8D1CW=BJTCE%;.?A$'(=2P-`2U10FH
M-[5).5_F!6"B0#VI98*8:0E`@=P.%Q?]"A@D!--E&SL\>H69>&QUGT6
M:F7*2FFS,,&R>',5UH_):2^DS9RX)I1+4A,N]-:DR'BJ%RO)77@3`RJN.G^I
MQ:?Z^6PF!:])S9QDK-C339X(3DI=S@E*;*8984)HSR:FP!3F)
M)3L]\5T8Y+PPZ\O"W#Q3RZ75@\R*O=*7=G&&K93KF7H<:@;3YQ\9?&-N>
ML?S.3/5@SAX7ZRN(I/T=2[S_-P^9]`)(O0@S928BO\_]42IST>,@7B-6[%\(
MXYBHW/F>82EW0@;*I7O'NQ,B)(W@$0U!V"OQX&S7$MY&HLLGFP%)DFRY+QLT
MD,D[X'YLWT['7YFHE`J+K8ADR0:/QGA.$$E\18^&-U3,&;OPO1$+[9$M2,A/YC3OL\Q>N.";51(317;)B&2#!,-QZ#]B
M_,E4)FIR6;6L6;;:6\MVG@U"=8@==^ZS9/#O6,3JF3Y=L_$J;K=F6](J3;-:
M&ZJDB#\R9+9RQ*2-WS-D=5'OM!K5'6ZBJ>B=RXG__9UFFT/U,["?N*60G-.2
M7Z]N+)L+4S;(7O?`,NE'[1E
MDZ31;JY19IE;>I[D?;CB/-08FKQ@>W:DTY`QIIPIE`K9+73NGDERT
M)O*?)TV`DE':R>8?&G]SXE+\*F[XCBVDPW@P;$>VXIE^W2*!62N"Y=+$YUMO
M(-,*=J!N"/K`#&;VUR;P6@3P2C9DUJ]R+76)AM;`DMA\'W,4:,2(G
M7#)O*R\]Z#@XLJ3[*W.>;$)P%EB,J5[3%L>DMTY;CV=EV\U.5N2"9VM.QCVWH.;.QF8+96):OEA,\ZICQ6J2KQ2K9\G/
M76D4OB.:)E4!;=9>M.2E,2#B>SRVYN>HS[G/M,KNHE!.
M7AP&QE'E"I-=&46_2%(NAG"LQ93OGV/FD;JUW=>#8&\KB0E7WNE_UA>W>%VO
MIZ0GIFB]:UCM^6&1-5ROKO/D,Z,JI")4OI.B5[XGYPCGGCP^E=TT+[@AUTF&
M-U+"V6Z
MR1J32Y>%Z,;OBX+%;Y,4N?8H&M&JI`>LQ",GB:M.).Z,W7CQ.2!_"L4[R($9
MD%DNZ23.0
MI]$FIT(/HK)LQZ)(78Z722-`IQ
MMCD?C8U]T?@`(SF_7605CRQ^$M7(A3
MO#_%*9[D6V_.?9Q+A:/*Y/@Z$K-
ML'3&N>I$[70^1#!G,L3Q[CG)GX\7?(JS>MYW9K?PAL6P;7)\N_8UI!:&?&&N
MAHLI0A/??SD9XW$H0@#,X?>&(Q*#N$N:U>32_Q^)]`6?
M38A-M2^]5;IL,F(W'0SQP!)@Q[.\/MBM,"S]
MBU(*>S73WG>2?(P83``3P(1C9@*,@UP:!_'ERS`&LDL23``3P`0P(4],@#%P
M?-CG;HUIY96T(@"9(@"9(@"9(%()GBU9RU#0V6ZZ'G
MAW$]S5R=3$Z,E,)<23'[2=6W&"0NILB_**B-+4XE(0$%D(`Y6:A"%"`*\B>M
M`5&`*,3)*Y`$2$*L%-0BW,:[U\#NIGY2"$MNHTJH0A9"[4W^W^+;@H2FS46`
M!;``%L`"6``+8.VSTCK=N'!]P[CPK*-`X0+!V3@!:;6(L*X608VGF)J_:2UA#W6$(`F2(`F2(`F2(+G.6,EF
MQBPJ"_=MB#/AZLB^!S`6M@#:R!-;`&UD7'N@BV60;;EZ`L[U!GM\UF`20Z
M^]HK8[!CRP+H`!V@`W2`#M"+`7HQ3#D4YNU]`;S%-Q0Y`"R`!;``%L`"6,4!
M"X5YR#8AMZ&%+/_C01N1`6`-K($UL`;6P#K[6!?#.MOX`N"]Y>FGXHS6V^+?
MU6R^V.].F-3?JWW`YUT>WX8AMW
MMF.'-@\V=X12]0!FK-+26O_9)PDF@`E@`IB0)R;`(DC3(D@WLV#36RB^>JYB
MX28*D`1)D`1)D`1)D'R71;BEP;*;EK#.4C0D^W9*+D_=3UOZ%N/8Y:G[)Z16
MI`:RFI6[F`%RBB!GI1L@0$X/9$T%R$4'&>G,QX/UJ:KG>$7G(A"*ZWA!$B1!
M$B1!$B1!?EUJXV3=R.<>^4CGJZ(_OJ]&GJ>7+AO9CF-[;O!IJ#G]"7?,,-7.\ON]@0J!6DOE(SW_XGL\!F2`\GY*"27
M;LA]'H295X_?C1"J$0+^<4A\;MD[%V](SA%(CC1;V50C/!I#()*W,"TYO
MUKPD(Z*S4;LAJ!S1:S^75*_^.7#Z3]EJUPK2JND56RGN65&$O&]C[3I*/
M$8,)8`*8>PD,]B-^'KH^:$2E&,.O;W*[Q4D)R'+(\0,B]
MA7.OW&&&?((X@0TY`_C#+R1$Q()N]4LN+#9)BJNZFM44]U!6!)$B"
M)$B")$B"Y#IC)9M)B*@T2L.@;N3#G(8/A.@0(`-D@`R0`;+B0)83\R.#A?>H
MR4GS-$?+29YK9G4)$LR!';`#=L`.V`$[6"OO-J-1E8,,9X`%L``6P`)8``M@
MH2HG/T'+0V2>:ZCPR!UH7/3%Z:\FM><9MJN?1Q`1;``E@`"V`!+(!5/+#V&I=M;A.7+6).Z2$Z
M%J@YR7&&2SOGTJ)K4OY`0^@H=Y"A:U+^,$/7I/Q!EA`([G3&YOT;_D8ZO3Y._'#%]NX
MLQT[M'DJ;!RD6D#M@(3TF/V`A0S`W
M6*W4(2M^0B9A;B!%)F&.L$(F86Z@TAH'N0(ZC2!DZBBF8*6NO+_^O30\2-A,ZB@+]%O;J&M9NX(>+Y._'#;/;L?T0M$/O-L-V@7#K]X@4!
M#S[)D=U-.?`Q=J0K#']QYG/3NW?I,XO9+O-$JG"Y9+NF-^+LE#^-N1OP3XP^
M9@//X?,R.4Y>4/WZGNO_UTAQ?"E\^V:2)@T
M?V,B3K7T#YLKXQTDT4U&\7H.77T+2W,G
M18BO#C.[EEQV4X+:2'3-#5;U@]R#O-/LK3UO&O)XQV+RG**8N\8NU-\.MX_3
M^A9>X4YWB&6QS?/&L(7]G')Z?>L@K2D+U(L@N]`V85FXV8B,(?J2(]2$7[Y)RORQ>M$`_&
M/@]$#K[U"=4&D^\TVQ^N-J@=)NV_B*]%M4%^DG20J00F;'%6@&J#EP//9N9:
M:EH8U08.J@U0;7!(UJ':(">ZLC\8H4!GZ8!7]OBR`X6?';,
M0G+%&K#A\P*6VLSVK5*OIAJ_66JYE+NS)F-G::/9;QHPI^^/C)"SU
MUBR7DC1$<>0A#D*L:4.F)#68=J;8.(^/2QA]\46R3+DD$DC8(Y%B=WPQ/B6C
M4MSP7=N]#^B19_VT\7@K"3$1CT)A!DN!Z(5MH>5\N31K=TU_'/LF];SO/KQA?LS;[9^QF
MR`.RQB;2)T@$0^_198GLQCGC=YP$N")E6G[*GTP^#I/%=)^P?RZS?G[@T]QW
M03(90!#2V*6KZ]@NC_O;E$OQ&&FBZX9+(QC:YC!>$?9(+'#?)F$E08^S_9.$
M^]D[S]C5C&@X]`*^,#:9J3Y9ND1%A)8G]U&P<>2/Z0M!A041O524`7BCD6?9
MX?.L4J`B^;',`LDOR8*D6M+9@@YL,BICD
MC]H"Q,:R0!),R`$34%OP+E;D-4R8FA9&;8V@+4%AR2=:@MV*VNS.:1RL7:
M0Q947K!2JP^
MLL]]I5W+R+92R,J_@ZJHG)2(`;Q5OF2.\KNRX96^_5*4+]7++VC
M'43O8-/8#7AP2G:XG[S,Q
M)$C@>KMMI/[B@S=5;V5--JR-XI1$;(*G35-F+H
MQ0`R+X?MN"#OA3&":[PR9CD"+(!52+!>[5KQHV4_B-]^^3$*E'O#&/\TZQ!P
MZ0:A'XFB[J#C6N)6.]N][XC6:K)NNF<3[CFWW_JMNM92Z!]54ZO*_U:K
M:O/V^J9W6VLT;D654+51J][2S"UNVB/#"3Z?*(T39EN?3VSKMMYN-:NWM?Y%
MK]OMUI6+GJHKNJXWE7:CKRJM6KO34ZO-?JVFWJJWK1,6N7;\:COP=(W>],=U
M[^37=EV/O;EYAKPZC<4Y_^'.&@C0H\DS`7W7YT;`@^^RS03Q\)[>O:;%]AQIXDT&--M5IL:\4-I5/M-1>_5SI667N\J>K77JC>J%ZU.73"F
MMHXQJMI:9LPNYKK(O>NAX?,N?=?;(-^-9?-1Y
M-'SKPK#]/T4#B$X01"/98R'X;@=_7_B<3_*POALA_]UXLD?1:!<VK5;4[H-(;AZ75>ZG7I=:==;K:[>:IZW+H3@5N?X&H@A!22SRQ*[DUDNB:PY
MY%;D\D/[OY)&HBINA-*=:LG-V;2XHM5^GURY"Z77;I*JZ_0:
M2JO>J2D-^J?6;57K]4Y+,N97H>@3/;\4M7E'4XL=]7"Y6>CH(W>A^0.33Z86Y>*FAJ
M)HGFBN,_A:G!ANX9KVH8SR9R8GO;O^EBYW]6U:KNO
M*HU.IZ'HK8N.TJYIFM+M]=KGG;ZN=QKUCQPKIWPWR(ISY:!<2FZRB&^9\,6E
M:FOO"&'VC.5S-X242X8X3I8Y3PN/G"8+E1AX_O/V(Y,CV..0N\Q@#K\75W"42]P=>+[)Y7'V2%R3X[,),>/>Y_'])/S)
M#A):L\$0#RP!=CS+V4$^\R*?B35MNO\6Y#-;W;>_,].MX>Z:&KIW9",MLR'K7UVO+*2.@F'VH_Y9TD'R,&$\`$,.&8F0#C()?&04<>9\,8
MR"Y),`%,`!/`A#PQ`>GZHA-P?,=LE^R3.N,^)D5*82Q1F/R4M9S8;)&XC
MSK\HJ(TM3B4A`060@#E9J$(4(`KR)ZT!48`HQ,DKD`1(0JP4DBYP^9:%O09V
M-_63KL(A]YD9^;ZH639F!\:%\Y)VL9AWN`):11#Q[*N[C*$.PQ>@`W2`#M`!
M.D`O!NB%L.30SG'O\O\6WQ8D-&TN`BR`!;``%L`"6`"K./VBZ^@7GC0AMAH.,!&PDL1P0V4E2.".MJ$=1X!N^-ZJ&.$"1!$B1!
M$B1!$B37&2O9S)A%9>&^+7%XV,>#=1%\+F`-K($UL`;6P+KH6!?!-LM@^Q*4
MY1WJ[+;9+(!$9U][90QV;%D`':`#=(`.T`%Z,4`OABF'PKR]+X"W^(8B!X`%
ML``6P`)8`*LX8*$P#]DFY#:TD.5_/&@C,@"L@36P!M;`&EAG'^MB6&EO\N]H9K:7E)4Y>FO)K7G%&:[F,'``L@`6P`!;``E@`JWA@[37:
MW=PFVEWH_.=LN%5:"PW*C@=MM*,[*K01'SL>L-&.[HC`+D(H%%B_;Q0Z`M\(
M?!^#7XH@`L`"6``+8`$L@`6PT@Y\+PQKR`7G/I_43]8-?/;$@O%5\]5+-Q$`9(@"9(@"9(@"9+OL@BW-%AVTQ+668J&9-].R>6I^VE+
MWV(#]:E:KVTZ]+;9RL&_GX(I>H*S'>L>^GZ+9V*)$N7?D-3EIGN9H.8C,XV(`-D@`R0`;*\0Y8;`V3CZP#W
MEJ6;BMM4;XM_5[M-M;3\F4*IB-]>F.3_BT?
M0YT^?R=^^&(;=[9CAS:/0]9WT]%DQ0.8L4H[E/=R>))@`I@`)H`)>6("+((T
M+8)TC\`W;9;^U7,5"PW301(D01(D01(D0?)=%N&6!LMN^D$Z2]&0[-LIF3T\
M/VVK'W[I#@[//V5XQ607*U4#5GG!ZB`IEH!JHV4%K'*#U4'R\P#51LNJ5L\T
M6+F(U.%:0Y`$29`$29`$29!AT;(Q
M&+;_I^%$_(8_A5W',__^M5QB[)G??^=&$/F2S%]V./S#]>X"[C^(P5VZ
MXR@,OG/3(]*.;0BZ]%OD^[9[WS4".^B(&UIN?,,-!MP/KB(:R1?^P)T:H^^$
M].;O?/#YA'O.[;=^JZZU%/I'U=2J\K_5JMJ\O;[IW=8:C5NMJFK51JUZ2\RT
MN&F/#"?X?*(T3IAM?3ZQK=MZN]6LWG;U;D^[T-M*J]GM*KJJ]95NYUQ36IWS
MMMYJ]IJ->ONV6:WJM_43%KEV_'8[\'2-7O;'=>_D5[T61_9G7$Z9$8MTYGFUVJK>JK>J
MMHY#:J/=;"TS:6'<2U/R7&_,?>*)>Q\_TW\:>]WLZE7]Q=S636!Q
MGCU.R/KTJO
M05_6FSVU>MZAZ3;63;==?S'=M^:Q..O^D\F#@/[:Y2X?V.&%[XVNAX;/2>JY
M=>Z-!*?D>D@TD'O?,4E1R7.==%C2O^AUN]VZA=+ITD_-]GFM5V^IM7I3%RM_CB^!'!:M>;VYS)/W
M361I3_%\3COEN2PN,)^E.C1,P;??#-L5JJ/+!_0,<3H5#M0[S9I:I?VA+5=+
M[;RI=+5&56FWFYU.HZ/UM7:7.*"ODPQ%55_PX0-S>B\SY'H3OSI2IH)OGF/3
M`Y-]>G/6+#)#:[0;JD:;Y7E+572-E$BKV^PJ';VK=R[.:=):C9A1/?E56!^)
M\;%T`IPZ)T[
M?FN,VIHQ3DRX_T1!:`^>YZR^CXQ:;O(!,UQK_O2Z7/+),/`M;C';98-D0N9T
M0HQ6#`L3O.DA(V3AD#/^9`X-]YXSVGEXN>2Y\M,[PR$%PUDPY#QD%OWIC'TG
M0\*-N'POC[>F%43+)>.!=K&$8,"\P>P58Y\_,EKGD2,V138@?4C?L`,BY`E5*=\^G77H,5E55"X)5>GS(8V03%46
M[S#L-'$\2%+/?[XZOYS]VOOYT]FK(+^TB3=>58N+\PO9>IR^\)UF:CAI&BRM
M1KVE-_6.4N]5ZXK>J#=(*[?9(]^,9_%1Y]'PK:NQ9-YO]*#P,&*EGPIC]+Z858=XTJI7
MR;ZI=Y1VO=M1:GJM5[O0SUO]EE#6VHKMJO%BL]KI=!=9^9OG68^VXW3,?R+;
M7]P-4V%,M='I5^NTCU?K&BGNCGZAM#2]H>CD\S;;K4:KWV_?$@L:Z[VEXPB?:]=YTT:A7&XU^5VGWQ=[4;6A*ITFV;:/5$7,_;]$2
MV--'[)@'._0W5OG@^$C]\O;KI,[7*9AI,)W*_75WU_KK\\D4JK"B3&]>Y
MW`8"L3\)Q6\:OO],X).^'WD1D:&]XCX!G=T]LX#?BQ7"'CFI>2.@/T+WZWNM_5\ZOOGSI?+LF
M$B8-T!@'_(3=B2W)EU$9DSNBED!8Z]/?QX9E37Y/XC=JM?JO]7*R=%*8?*?6
M^M?)R@C/BD/.R5?6?F,G'^.U>&T17EO@8_KY)O,O$RX^KD37$GG?SK!T>TDW
M=CQFTS.V\L3V,F9O,!ONOR-W;O"U:F77HU=W/7HR'ZKO'.2ATXYV0O)U^=^8
MC=*>C'5F50OP=0ORK4+]3OX5D(]7MP50;U>P#U
MJV5$_6[4GT)KO9HZ5(SZT85AX:*QE)_>UT6EIYO:#'9"E]E+@T"/E(Z]L-C_\3G2V/#!F:$::.\@.T]P&F&V#6>L@'5$*A)EX
M_FX&WD;1E!TT*YJ,XM6L@CT`.QG'6H13"SV.46
M.U*=F&0[M"*:Q;`B`/H'QS.Z:NY3GM$?;E?)L#>/=BDO74](WCO
MT%7+YD':E>O8+F?"A[--'K!"GI<=TA9I5&I-^`'YQ0^':,`.V$%OYA*_C%IX
M]2*8=T#]HTYT6D;0+MB)V^^VZ7N!-PA9-PK(?0N"@B8Z
M'M(`T2M5[2`7Z!3)`#DD?L`NM]CA^";/Z.D5M8%T\8+:=)667@2K#L!_U'M3
MU:PF$#BJ.@ZIB@&D5JFW5&"YF[AH
M-IJ`K>)LLZ*V6UN,+BLA4LC`YCP^;51J6G.+ZSP@!060`K56T>M9Z36RI].2
MU*4C!6]MG7-=;XM_5P0`6P`)8``M@`2R`!;``
MU@'!6G`8?@R-.X?/?E]YS:VJO7%+[W^B(+0'SW/3^-"1T9"S$3>"R.>R*F;,
M?=NS@G)IX/EL'/GFT`@X&_NVR>F%CFGXD_\;H
M?^&0$P7##`-99F/:OAF-@E!<7ARP.VYZ(_JO\6#8CN!`A=U%(;,\XF+(^)/)
MN473+I=&-(]A$'KOW/.O1=ASZ9NA[-&C[@8O/Y202?HCW/@YMKJFWKC!.&=N.^\R(4^X]%\.7TYG.=1(UDT\+T1(Q0YO9G)
M*;GF,PM]PPVR5=QF"E3Y/`"%)C'P235IID2-E>_)5&M'LN_1&6@PO
M;N*6$]U$A%MK1'BKF,QODTE?3@?^6DCFK4$V4EUF?Y%D\6">X6(9K6#Z[\;S
M7`PL9CDS0KE&"$;/E^LPN5WD$:;3:]F5[,Q9_F7UPNS=Y,*T8HRB%)NQS\2)#RZ;MB$9'46[2<
M0EI(B=8=$!O*)=IU(QY,/INL4!YD3V_^,:8U3GO4V.'QAC:(E:?ANA'I!0%V
MA5U=]V9X/XIUS$/NCVA2`RZ4+X3E@B*$GS^)'8=
M4K]"'`)B..F$D/2XT+W>?[@I1C>$.3SSY7)J1GI(1J=>06*A^NQ)NWW$&"Z182VB-!4/S)_O_LO6ES
MXT:R*/I=$?H/N'T\$>H(0H.=@#UV!%$T806V\#`(:!9;Q#66/IF93>4=+(4+!/4&D#KV>TL?XQ)V9@@J5-4@8KPN-)&NP"(
M#\5WA_X,!`GT$#\@NWJ"6)JD7#,F&34-@)G9CO-CX-*`M"EP&"@//WV@NHS"'2`)D(6_
MDCL_RL"B`I(%"PH80KH`F\KSJ(KKY)!@&CGEQ[HG^`1RI5NPDIS`AORI/Z&L
M+Z'Y!6#@,%G'_LC6E/^1YRD$0?5-J`*A[ZV2/)2)D5I]($F^;22)G-2ICX9@
M[30Y(*D>6?-,W;CG^B5\)!F!:Z+8JUHJ*)-SQ<4VP3R#'(LE\D`()TDV7S"!
M1Z4%7+M-G?C/TFZM/`R633/
M9/DMDJAW`1O/W6PDJJK-@43O>_!/X"4&.I0-*VU29-.GS_AWS[_#G_[Q]RR1
M;UUW\6-NL@\!G4&$\81K\CWM@Y_]YR^G)Y+TC_S!BQ#=_VOW^P@4:)B0/@D)
MZ$?`#&B9[^E7,OWY`XF";U]&MJG9,OQ'U51%_E]%4;O?KJZ'WW3+^H;;5"Q=
M^:9\`/J=`!L%R:2/1[K6'2B*K7Q3OZGJ!VIYT6_[261H\*G?KX8??H$=."QCN3SIF@/43SFB
MML+E=/2=V4]?@6@OPP&HT%[HX?\9_97Y0&+4<=O%T?71>-CO]TUY/%0-V3",
MKNQ8(U6V=:]W1954QEH_^FE/5X9&31^G0?8J2W9S\A4BW
MUAW<4AU]^>"KMU\_XA7P,>HI-TQ[$RK20'Q\B0*0/20IF.'M1ZX=4NVJNCX8
MFK+1U0&]JC&0':[TO-"&Q,+*I$-E6I`[`6@*D\(4;-V!&
M"/6;;S`D2P*,&Z#!?2ZAED@?`^P)=39`)H8MI&;NORE
MNC]$[P.8V8H+<8"A`0[&/0W0,];'YV++
ML=.?GE!(@[?L^@0:$N`':`KWC?*H"/.S*BY(@WGO
M"Y6B]%(EY\#3DY(%\RLJO*\*W5MV\0:.V-S]L_1+&2.YY7EIO"CE0:A*S!AC
M.O."B7.WI^)N=8IX'A/]A)FM"?#A=W?.!5OENUP^_"@%N84&)\%H)$E^HB%(
M+YM@##,&KL?U?WHZ(?7P-RR9?R;PIT2:
M/$P"_`[X?-,,5@AH7!$VC:^6OAE*JF4'\"=ZUW?/I!$-RWM1=I/",H7L6WZD
M^'9,TBP.\>\84TW!>&.Q=1X]!)%')22\,B4^#3O%+'Y7A6L%@R5DF<0(.#G@
M:C$+T[H2"N![RJ8(7T8ARV/
MNP_)?7XL.,_]C(1`3GE$P\?;KBDX\CZ/4?HH]F9X$\!D!(*Y?)O=BQ:(C;(4
M_2$\*P^^I>YW))L$J)QP5U1""J2B$$@8117>URI@1O_ZU<
M4^?*.;^L1I'(1"3ACBKE3-#TS##EYHF4S`@!^P'^="Y]Y?50GY>%&0H#Q^
M'N=&;?$)C.2[L%T@1Z\(B=%X_;ET75ZCPQ*5?(:E^_<40^3`:A.\O,:O%Z?&
MX"<2,5J@("X($'R"EQDLRFT6/08%[!%466!WSER@Y#QCA-U.30G]PM3_CC=+
M<[ZH(P=3,P(&/*M,V+D^;0
MFM*KIA38%6/WDS^!H[U"Q76*?X$$FJ`DH*>$0]WZ>"^(UML"3XOAXC##FRM0
M>P"E.A../B!@5/`KR+LHR("CV9]1,L!N0+7/D[4X
M=I/"+F-2`Z\?%HR&-!,P0=#A352V`$%%HPU@BP"])"Q[:EJQ>4KKTJ>LA$EF
M\&IHN8D)
M=?!7+XK+&][H!O,`EJ5/)=%B"2X-9,4!)_,O,?Q50<7HI<8H;.O7FGDPHNZ`NRRV,HG]!`K`G"X#`%2K**`^9ZH
M1(I;S2))**=Z%`9LP#'[IING3U)B].A%1=F#U&'V`.L5%J,1HCH9XS$D25'K*0LQ8J^-R3^GO-C7J6&!`55+!@*.Q'"J/2CBOW$Y=`^#F,,00NW@RF0Z;9KLJL%]<>#.?.K\T
MSL'6/`&1(Y?>J7,5C(DW__@97[13"]19V[L45)"SSP*#&-/3(@HV$YU87AP$&
M@S4P3V*)'NBFV*IXCHJ9PA2I894\-H3:"J.)CK">WEV`,^KPSVP>`$@I7R:16.`WD"B
M88@9T(JRFJ.??0G,?QH-9Q&D@-!H.-XH?#KSUE_@2*9UP7#3?T)$K3
ML+`9F%5R&V$B'OP&!&\KZ_:DQDV5(_(+*6IM+BLI>D_E`W]$/KW3`!@0
M,F?A[C+I9I+G(Q6ZH511R;);EV'6)Z[#HC>%`46_P%(5'XOAUN#_>Q\IP71,W,/H\VEX,HE/88^8_\FHSC"&XND[LJ`X/?RM$OJ
MM^16)?%^RK,[J0V4T.A+(8)S(R;)%AB*SLD$W3+4+4F^)GVHO@GVP$]\3=A]
MEHM^?I**;0G/?QGP78(@1B>Q4R3&HN:8\DPWC(7>DYO$3XLD,_@MK3RARU`5
M7Y5F"?BQ2W&@?+E*O0J[Y:D[IJMVGH,!3SW'O$MJ$M);OY"D+`Y>`ITE'3,&
MJ`:K62H7O2/@]P4/?`,_T6AMF$;`3FC^\,O&,C*6;\I-DFC")!BUY5G\N\*)
MD\?B\Z="@KESO%;X3YZ?7&2[4EF#2KG,0\:,^VC![0?X,LBT%\JH^NNR'XO'97&2(LOG++_X&AJL+CX@Y0QB(A?799P9NB@EQ'!E#L\
MR$L1V#FW/%N;W7D65AYEKH)#RXNM/(A,71>FQIFX6*F=>?%0L6JY#DW7+I(]
M:3(WW62AJ695I_KG``3$C'`,#$L6#R^+\2Z0Y/'(PLP
M2*B91K5I)0!1RF5V?O#JXH>RJNX>W9\B-YP6!(*=7H:[>```S6%^->#>X,44
M=3.Y'UNQ@="^H-N@QH*CE"F.GON0,*,2M*J((ZI"TJ!
M-]DM-7+@85H#0.T7$*,TYN2FDQE-:7W:"2N^36MP8G*;!2XUU0AAHA%O+H"$
MRXLFU`34=>:&*ODK%75($#$J96\V^I6$(*FCK-9%):;PV1BQ]K8CHTY-A
M*78;+)^^KE$KK&2$AC%+>GZ(HR#H2&!T!M$#(3PQ!7EW_84S7Z;FL1+7HTPE
MYS(J_Q9(E"4-6A@QY=;0NGYVTVZE5)Y)&:@+",*57D&N-!PXO%O=E*?74AV`AM"A`+G?XWX)WI+&M.6^5'TVY]][O%7[03VW\K+OC@0_.>5/^-7JWVEB0EDZGK#:\=,3
M^#\J>QK^I6`V%AI7&`D.MJEH=UN5MADG4PFW:&K19))Z"&Y%H98+PMRK7]U(/JT2+SB-7]N7LK+,,JL9E)CQ1%V*?@',NV1(E$S
M"6B,_L%1_E;D-%/BXS5MM7MA]A%.HH&;(.52!P)U/5HMY>)EB/>Q2BBBK84^
MX?15-FD!%*"UPIF)"MY:V5_M;1\[RZ1^&A`6[Z)N9+$6S?"L1<1Y8+ZX9BP_
MW!CBY`E:UYA@TV!:Y-O$-$N.VZ)2()%HB0;/KZW8XW[Q#OJ_W(AC@[29^4[?
M8ZE%\*LL+.*F:"^X<4COMX'HZLM62PU.3S!1'H/[15\%0#;8L#0-*4^(]SKE
M[DC"O1`2LM@C3?LK"LCI"8L&,D#51<I9'Z7_T0K;(M.;O5[.G5B:LYA=&
M[IQG`+*H"H4N2^#&8`QM&I"GH_)D4Y8Q2ZD\S^Y.T!/A]XE5D)]+P_S7N'!>
M;!M7,L/S["^6%DJ,8&7_K@XINNR,DU:
M-8Q_O*'E!M3Z9SDL*_?(_(\)2)B$U9T"^^>M#$!T!%%X*V-`J:XS\^"V
M&G^C)Z6O\[!&WKRN>RKU63._Z/(2&')-$7^Q^KB;3>MF#0,
M\S,?C`@0NP^L=1$\GJ0)5R*LE4VRE.M0PS;YGO(*".;W^N$B2UF%-\J@2HUY
M905ZF7*#-@]O.L,ZT5!5=UX:O7\@]0'1W$8Q6EFHW7)]6UFLT@&-\FX4ED7L
M2^>H[1P;>21YMQZZ;<8SP%#52AXL\5DR!:L]UU#ZI$SQ@6!YH#!-\@_2B]X?
M7T\T:PSYFI=@O6G3[TO5[`")HRZBX1\D&XPY!C3
M9G@3$N!@4"RY+WY>8$,3_C-OFZ3\JZ:\LHO<5-#6`7>&RY@03:E>`F9#QQ#-T^7D]*LV>XD'`ECXP<6MCG
MYYTH7.ZXX^MT8_.,IB-.P;A)*G('-B?E>ZOLJY2I]9A\&5;%/B'Y1_+#4WN;
M]V%ZIB_#9LTFA=`00F/G0D-[G=!@DD(J!05XR/["8C.XS=+$0,^
M`6:NKUR&O\^MW[Q4EZ[-$S'FD4M%O`8-UU@T:OO`LV%H8C8KCZ`9KM5F$H/(.?]AS
M4Y?EQX)7E;JT9B]XX,W5L!R36M]Y?U0FGBJ6-59Q2']@(FTMF,3:^]#C)$5;
MNCRKNM(HC&?LE)X^?R2_=,2+S**E*#>-6-2);9\#N08*"J`BQX3?$:$91E/;
MP+FX0V&=EXC5*L"X$(>_%1&X9!&E-354K2FC=]QS."8'1"G5M26-4R]FQYP4
M3.$M50]-5&%5]23OMX"%\A&HC0Y25)S>NK9.H@XJF9#09?.(O7!0Q]U$6T.HHVA*;-S@K9'@].,*"3\M](/#"C%T8
M5UJ7%4;U6C6UCS-^_F6F"FKRGK>,/#UAW6KI`U51I"\;[5P'#Q25+I455)K8CJ/05YYBZE%KD]YHQ.?MRDM$`&D`AMY1FD7\=2R=(8V
M,F&U1)5F&/_.O-N\*P8'8YTMHK+\OQ96X=<1]?UCQ\A'FSD]R3L(H@E6="S,
MZ3@F2Q&F2Q?QR%>/QU=8Z5=>^D[-S
M4?2(-5H@56*TE6C$D!5!Y54:K/UN]38!'(''K2&HY5/MWKR$^#PP6)5*;EV.
MEI6;J_R#2M^@&V3VZOB$RE@$EC)16F'/^0CV4K2VY2%C9-9S;ZNSR
MHQ?6VK$4/>PK*81Y?4O>+KQL0Y2GAVV(1&,*OA69K4X2=ECBBK>JWWR%X)
M_3H.X8IGRCJ,\[@`?`BGYY9RCS^\A:Z)"WU0>T
ML(Q>2O]X&;]\&F=ZU,4#*7K_"FZ>TN#T#4A1N;CI#,BCN=TFRI59T7/>-1H@*%+:.;
MQ1E6@F45`(NOR%.L'W:#O,J;IUK>`G*XO4'KI_,43RZQ*TD[>0Y_WO:77Z?F
M/>H&16?_0H?PCMX@U'-%O$(^5[LK=?*O3WGC$#"H+@<7S1/AK.=@F2JX%+"I
M8:"\E/Y76E(["1YD'KWGYDM)<4>+=$P1FO.>
MD?Q"Y82V@
MR#OZ9:5R`DLY3X@M.2(*6>YYK5<6UL0EL[RY7U'HDNO0HF45]E1@B2LTA):B
M>BI2Q1[O*"_LRWO/EV8B?K^X":#-$+!T*WA@U7[\\T&U9IFYROHZ'T#,4N_7J'#>S@1",H3/>S$#M)%A$M;-HLXV37&5S+:H6;/47F
M5.[3,*O>Q2;:M(P4$Y=+TQT`@OXW?0LU\^KF>=*X]D8Q-:3B^I1<6BK.HK]^
M95YP;])#`AER\MZT.0Z)>X%^9&Z=(*LP%
MY)(F!TE5E\.3F'+H%K-@X!=!_G/1JX/..N'.'&U=DO76U]\0*!GGM5P>Y(A?*;*I>A$GOW.J3"N\OK\7+PT7\'`]L[,1-6M57
M@+(D(S'/VO.R2K/?Y6R<>MP#%DDJAB`>J[A3>2RB.AP>*>=0.#ZO*X'E9U'@
M=1#[F")*I1GVR.@L&6&L.J\J#;'6OOS`/9^#EH,+:9M2TSUASE9M==[S))<<
M>"7X3/K;/6$I;S3=C19?,[[(5RO%$*^^06&"MC''E#*QP24JV@
MK%0@I;7>S3.P`=(9ZR[G%3626!*8!E'T9R%7\^;`U3A*,?J(%4`AZ=">#?EP
MG$YMO%-EQ`E5UY592)5,1UK55<03.#WR0J(G9,K+?/_.RF!L34BG46G!L=Z'
M/&&3=UBB3;LHO['@#[\\K78'95T[7=YNI7FB?%C-9"ELS+SG1[59!O$IL:^\
MN"T:3I6YUVEU;A8$Q[,5;O=\LL@7SC#`S63K`^
M.RTRK?,>1'[R)^IS?)T]RF1KQ(/JSQZ*DP;-R2SJXLML3.8_$"_O9$IXC7*N
M&NDRP'@T_QE`2JVSG$17`^>=#>UZ.?KL2S*K3IUST!Z(O)9R5<=ZCNO;.MP1)0$L
MWW*75YM+O<9Y+()9E(4)<AT6CI)I2V^J$+8*E<5+7U:>D1CGFKM(+(
MDX<>RK284C=43D$IK4PEP&EZT9SG#C"A3YO4A4OAH.+]O)]7Q3M>$5"JF?.8&C=[2<5\B[Z12-)V(:>CY+NQHF+\D"?'T^8`YP('T@\K`JI;>1;OB*O1]^
M20&$%@#A%5Q;'D75*K)X%NN*YT6".6^NP:+T9:?[X0#H7H7EKGD0W&Z=[]X[(@U3
M;0WQC'
MJM$.H220M^+;1DM,@[WZ-F_5,7_$?DIDO$X6.F4/.N7,=!JB4SX*5;(5U)Z9
MUB'PN(P^@;17(4W5#N*6O!AK;[H3,BJ*XVBNA/9&O\_!K49TNX:B0)9`UIXO
M6QL>>\D.;P!W-,V)SN_V&
MCS,J=LF*E5)62):R2D0QZ>F\?87/9BS-8+%.WF6[^`+6H?FUQF!TK&B&';U)/D&Q/ILS2_V\>43>
MTX)^CW:TH*^SK6"+`=Z(VH7=Y8?PPV(%-A.FWKF,C5:FCY/Z^K0?ZW()?SJ+
MH^P66['Q?@#\GIS6M_(!HXVI#?L28^,$UFOJ]`3[3C5]8G%UQ[2)QZ)HDU#P
M3=F.T\/:5C[?&I(5U".W9(`A/C+JC+=8H=VL6,=CK'O'$9OL`28[
ML0O:\H.TY!R;584ASI]A$U(\F-(^73XVDY%0
M9'.;MF_BVR_[A:%%E-W3H!^KKZACVO*-'
M.0V\TNUXK9;@_4U+X5[V0^&3!SM`3;@/[%.#I>),HA62DG4&RYM`,8ZCC9CR
MCE.8QUT>I6@V3S_#2^UO@*K=/WD;]ZB8BD?9)*&E[G4.H9R!K4I!;=#IOV@2
M80%SK9]_74W%G*%RLZFB\7C3TZ+S=%/D\%>")5B!/O=GL!$[="6\5V>M9YM+!_E2&Z^3APNPHT52@ICW
M`,N'=!7..YCU\8YUJ0@3Z7=&SO6::HA]4Z1BT8C,OY6L$2I6QI>?XFCO4;V;L;>OW
MBLJLLF-!`'BT!Y(6BJ?!BO,BE(9PD/D-&)-,85*JI4JY4H:.L5U@WG2I8KG3K5.]"1O'W.!.
M\10_#)W/,L$646QD>-&JN:26I#`P6%`E'\>>EB.[`8HD+1J_K3A!WF.U;&''
MG-BR$//T9)5=I-"3.BO(B-=`S9-*V4++-M\I0^IKVH.4,T
MLG$E,,(5`69]$2?0N30)8_H\ED'[FA4!C`)9I?EW'./Z0
M-9I%@Z?:4[G2Y([.=\I[0>6=>U>WY`42RGORK@@U+,=7:EV*?>R=6D0QY4FP,7YZ$-%URGL_`?:Z@:?N8_D)"6+
M`K:UR!`"GC9Q9YWZ'RI-I0M<5`-)=/1H;K"4W=)QH,>*QVF'4&9+5#K?30L'
M=`E@9S0D]/#Q6;B0^L2EU;"O31BIQ7O8ICE)/H*/M`P>'I[,H?Y8:F"9W;1F9H]U!M@7WSZE8QBN"*P"5H
M&H>_PRI9QNA!QJ2K)B9%CNG`/&!/RV2UY)^1\OD$$%%#;1DBU6;YQWK9P)>!H
M7_"01M@3@C.U?/5W/)\6L?A'+KG*)5-RWF6*+7$*G.TYQC$`-P86QPSLN+S/I4Q!]9F"@
MY]_A3__X>Y;(MZZ[^/&J#%Z4L9XO$3A_@,=K\CWM!\!IOYR>2-(_\G=^#TM-
MELZ@R1P2^\Y5,?_Y`
MHN#;EY%M:K8,_U$U59'_5U'4[K>KZ^$WW;*^(1DKEJY\4SY@BWA_#@3X\P?9
M^@#:[^JW^"_
M'ZBFH9_VD\C0X$N_7PT__*):+$.[A--6S[P$SH1<3D=%J/?-\*A!0+,&UJAK
MV++:&ZNRT8?#.R/%DC5G,-3TT7!D:`I`0/GP"](%)XN]AX3+4U-1VBO]]@;?
M:7R)49C3"X15_GCI154FD0(GS]T_226BOQ2GR$<849E>N>E#>55X4GD\J1HI
MZN2)"[QY*>]Q"^[=Z#LH@(!='I3?Y4DG/S+#CBFY6S:H_"6QHU@S3*6:RH/]3-^Q@R?PS]+I^\C`)\#OL@@.#;96+^/*B)?2D
M1_]UN%:G
MR1:0I0J`Y,%D/@J7&JUE
M/E7)_%AP'MXH/9_"07O<3D%(^3R:AQ/H)C.?W/$963S?@;]-=U`B%A0T,V6F
M>390ZGYG%@SV:Y]P\KHK^VYC"`OG`Y!PN57V.D\84S1@T2I"RKF\"!4V@KDR
M>*.5;-!$?ED37J3YP6\RN`=>,U*8#/E9S[&LU
M;5W,UU7`!9^_E:N3BY!&(P;,FOY4B0OO0EOJH_&PW^^;\GBH&C*HS:[L6"-5
MMG6G-U25[DC7J;;LKE.7AJHLZ\L7GZ@.B&$19+F<7LT`MWUDR4&%(7N50%C_
MH7SFB_N`O^OAY4]AMVQ)F5J6VM7&EB5;JCD"9:HZLF.JJCSLC;4>_.38@\%K
ME.ENQS\,,ZZ8&O=#"ON^43_E@@S,#<3C\B)OPLD?
MM.4DOXIZHZ.QEXWV6`)YX_?Y*SH,\A",FVUO5=WV5LN-=&=O2V
MGRP1E"
MB%6W*2
M;8VKBK2,/8M1O2GYUB(ZL9^LC&/`M\C*$%D9PI@XC#'QLKG$.QY=1SM;8B/U
M\@BZTJGTTHN)=.\FT@_&N2'=L+XKM$GD#X9C2KP1"^W>':4XZK/207BIQRC.
M1*W-)[KJL7:35U_@7]CA-5FP5M^\"3>.,F4O8?M+;/DZX6_6V_33D7BN=,][
M717#B-FX.CH#1SMWV.0[^D'MG,_!6_KHDV;2(;"SNLFARGK@PK\4UOC^%=T.
M3T]$NT/&VGF[0_O5[0[UP[0[W.EG]Y67=781YD(#N(]\GY!%6NF[O.N.3DWK
M:H7/SX78FT41::3N6;#H0VL%&S0Q_,NZ3
M;H\Q%^OM!+]QM$M5C5=_=!N!K:V#^G!1RT-B3U':@;T=)AF\5:#\L1Q+H*)%
M]G"X666BWU%)FA_V3Z*:=JYVVT&DC14QAT";?F[H[4#;2ZPJ^UD[R7Z55?6"
MIT497)M-=>&O"']%^"L-M'CM=BBEQMH2!T6>U@[D"6^E$7+F`&;OJJ."!V-:
M[2#"CGEN=-UH=9LHF7U5GB%W24.,Z2!EC]AWC_
M'05X4_^KZX>?HB2Y#*_()&,SHGML9BS+T,4%GM:LM#0'W,<
M+OP?BJW+Z44Q([A'1P3O!%A#0W%4!2>FVGI/-HS!6.X-]+'L]Q9%55NK+1M0:RW=4LN3OLF3K\/]7I.X
M4H\0D2A(3D\^$Q>5!07%4R&B`V?'_4'R^>=TPO>$Q"EPS.D)FYI.,_TJ(^0E
MMYIH1!,,I9D/]G(\F3U(-P2X#AY/4CJD/B9$"L@="6AZ9&4N/!V>+D4AS;L#
MVN!C[^]G_F0F^>$B@P]G=+ZZ'TIS"D>:P5>N0$=YWR0DOJ-YM@EU!^=;/E1.)2NDQ5ODG(__
M^$1)GB7=T5](!2A4_:>B]B?@%!!P>-[
MR`&8H>N7*D1*8]>#YX%':%)NSN+)N729@4?.]P'^0R@#_?EW+GW(IW543Z_?SJ'#@R9G*%)!W)`\4'4)E0:>>CR@NI<06;(7]E5/!U
MZ-]F6>@E%;D#FY/RO57V5UU0H-)"JD4%*NR8E'`J+S
M^,U2Q)R>P$]KEN'O,TV.FPFCE*_=89P[CSP2R&R/J,Y9849*)K/0_RN#;YV1
M\]MS:B'T`W?RIWPUF44!_)Z^^)$=@MDZ;A#43(4*#-99-Q(::6X(MA;6=<1Q
M!%Q$:T%N'JKO\(DO4%3`F^#[HD3-PHJ4HOR0/BQ0
MU\#?8C(-4$#.W=!EX>%R/>P=:]KWB?;.BU*1#$)(@&5@!^BRF7"MU1P
MJ"!RO=8IQ6[.^/F7F2JHR7M8#37!Z0FJ`OY`513IRT8[%T>E],&ZQ]A/EH0K
MG#<71Z5(I8*4?OXVBKQ[']3J_8R@8PW.^.D)QKMB-*5KT0O)@_^A"H+GY@OX
M-77'05_$MZ060V"/,R+
M"%4>)]HJ0G&GS#:I[/]2QK^5(8TVZ`/UBS3(%*Z6X!W@-O&.O
MZMIW69I8/%0C$8Q'..N+SP&!5*KEU.5J$"5?Z!TQ6P"JG)S?(['Y(\PJ9*97S
M!N/KN5M:8=RAR=4!X_Y"/2#KNC&^R47"DB"F)KG$;75DHW.I!\!_)/DP>EG(
MRQQR#!O<32C/#>+@^X00$'\8P:R&9^'[ZV!YQ;K*Q#@NHANEC3"U%I0JO4ELM-II'*+A$739O4)I0VZT[+V?SO*STEN<
MRKZX/*/'O!QEO&&$LT0"VR;:WK&Y[RWWTHE^XRT,G9.ZAH<>A*6B`<>^P
M\82^`\K>^AZ_Q&1*L(M4XWF0%K4)'FP*#PZ+&%;C*8?YC()T-N['=(W]_W9K
MG3VYY)L:,JE6A7Y$1Z;=EF8>0[>G?V$/QE&(,8#533-;X)^T0TSM6/*U8\5_C6(;X7E40JEI_HTQX.IR=GA/5K^-@27='NF87",!9(%TA_
M#T@_:THXY"@'>0MD;PW9.W1NMV>M3*KMWC!+'(T78;'L@[2U#0:F'9JVA2`3
MIHI`ND"Z0/IQR?56Y"X,HO".Q`FM0X^F195]K2XO*AN357XO#)N],$!3DAB$
M82-TG$#Z+EA(3
M`M?;P[5J'`&RWUP`OK>LS9V8L*:#_UUMPNJ[LBWSC^[X,T^8L'HK_0V!+($L
M@2R!K,,BJQ6>_(#-/O'#2AF9=.OZ83%RBHW8JQ8/2$7M@!23@$Z6P1[YK,OQ
MC`2TXRN6ZS_1N46$"80[(=P)@6N!:X%K@>NCP[5H$O@B4.1MF_C)5^V\\LAK
M&D$=_G'1M7P5C6^U%6BMW?A-S`CP]&1U;^_R[\\VTFY?,?8>09YWO2[A^0C`
MM7[.Y:^?;9XLX/["3L5IB]&0WM
M$%,[EGSMV+$`POL$@I#@S;SA>#^MA']X-4MM'K1:<535ZKYZ(]N(6[6A/6&K
M$&D*-!X#&I_^ER.0?`Q(5FVU'8AL6T]=E@QQ>G+&6NM^%+UUQ9)B2;&D6')_
MOK3HK=L$]W*#T,W&)H\NS-3V(D\1N&LM[M26N!4">2N^;;:$\T0KVG>OX,\L
M_1"TNMRQ1\@7H=@%[@3NFHV[I@O+5MP+?\GBRM=AB*PK@7]VLM1IG(
M96XASEK22Z!F&?P]=6\"4OG9\^_PIW_\/4OD6]==_#AV_?B?;I`1UK_L,W&3
M+";>9?B53+(X]L/;OIOXR>]A=).0^`Z7NP@760I_CL*)'_ANZD?A-?F>]H-H
M\N2](]\\:O)C'A90"ZG@VK.\@75])^B)+G&]8J7)5@RA1^^DNG/'T@4
M?/LRLDW-EN$_JJ8J\O\JBMK]=G4]_*9;UC?LX*U8NO(-S";?^_F#[WTS';NK
M?+.=GFF:ZE@V>R-'-KKCOMP?]WJR-M+!-K+&8V/)3*=D`F;2/8EAR>3T9!H%072?/%TI
MO/+,RNHC_R31TUQ=_+\1@TM^YCIQ5E:G!)A_H7_Y=3CZ*H-1_*GWY0J6`*,U
MR1F-K`$Q+@3?T$:*_X>>%Z7OXSMY951?E;@8()`U)G2[;(%0WF)WVV+6S,Y.?/@E=P>Z'7=%/?R2NP/=!@,<=JHVA*QMX*?"XGX@ZIU2TG7D7XXTPT%WL/0UP^JO2+7L\47?>6I
MWR[,.4EG5%=]K'(8%R%8SFG9^75G5M31WO*+5`7[W'FZ)5:C8[T0U>S^,68MJK+
MN`@B;"N(L+ZAA^G!=N0)#K#V*!1I3!;T
MOZG?P.7)0I]]VD\B0X,O_7XU_/"+;C-_3"G/O+3M^IF^Q-&$$"\9Q]%\2&[2
MSVZ:X82HB_!S%)/KF1M>SV)"/L-19\E.3JR/QL-^OV_*XZ%JR(9A=&7'&JFR
MK3N]H:IT1[H.Y_VF:>N.7#GJJTY3!P1UM=801>_.]0,DC'$47[D!NO,H3OW_L'_S%PX)
M%6,MU3A6MP:3YTY1.7!98%G2&G`=`?TXR.*8A).'RJ2`G8H9K:OV'%NW95TW
M+-E0E)[OA/(AK9/:!FSL)=@8@\%P
M9.J6/!JIH)DT923;_?%('HZ&UM"TG:&EFG0PXUIQLB1P-SA@!4Q7,S("0IX$+28O`#:4LP74FH`S@.TD$?R-B;&4QMM*T7CVV4CO,_$CQ6?'9
M-_U:S`9=E:>PU8%@5,_MN)W0X9?(+RVDQY;\KM
MTXXRN>\HFI@UYVDQ!/E%PJ0=XJ\]$O6]38)NQXY;13_O:AQV.W;Z-Q=XANOD6'"G0UD:F,T5)4.MX3NT8QA'U<=JSV7Y%
M)E'H";M]GW:[F$K^#K$NC/4CMAO4MDQQ$-A;9?4)J[W5^%.UEMA_`GLKOJUW
M3+LEH8Y6!.*O9WXL#/J]&O1-Z0ASG'9=0[$N#/IC5DK"'FPO\FRM*[#76NQ9
M`GGM19[6'E>Z@2MO\RU=
MS!%H,?Z$Y]QB[.F=UG1%%O,@]D[)S\&M1GZ[AJ)`ED"60)9`ED"60)9`UCY[
M4C1S+,YUE+K!8PH1(=/M!\^,#7H;B-!9RPH/#1$J/5Y_WS#$9>MFV#M`P=/*
M4F"U8XCBM19SHFZ+N.EQS24^]IP()LCNZM:IFV;7:U!,X#&Q;P?@#8=Z^.1U/6#Y/0D
MFM*?RYD^L3\A\%4`EIOBO*"(_MTO@"NY%+JG)RZ'NQCVD[]C=U\][$[;T0SGU5L1(?RF7,"H9OGU!^+&23MPV>HO=@SI?:*E6::.8,L`0B1.+=RA*#9EBY4C7:0J1`T1R9H&B%6X-G8
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M[WD[.5]_$&GFWA&@0:17O#'^03?UTQ.>,2--HQCIDQ\PO)5"?A8%7NV/DIM(T53ZGRRL9%_H2D="RC[?'H#J
M:6(OR!([)/BCG&0D"K3D]`0!/X^25/K]_.JG)A,2IZX<2`?&U0+B?2U_A_X<7R?
M3>=[8N^PD=.31>!BBN(3Q$;3'.&!*$MGVQ1[_`J$NC4*J[A])5,$N6V>771)),R_V02NOF`@E@IBON@5NRQ",
M!MX`H_=Y5/1WT*M#K27]G-LB&E"--]VF6JU)!>T@3+R>D9BXDZ/;I;3(57V*O.GK>3X+@-@(G'J:&,.
MJ^LBG>X16=DB$^==9^(\F3WRNOR)-]%TP&/P%Z%'YJ$_]2?T(KCAJ05XZ^]C
M^;F_M&V\E+USXP>\2D@FT8*PFVQX&UO)Y)?7$U[GA6UD;N$722I-`M>?T]?Q
M.CP(R"3-W``_M("7'N"WTQ@6I:D&TAP0*MT\2.G,C[W3DX4;T^MB-_83_/`T
MCN:T;4V6$%PQRF)_5X?D$N^'4#]V!8\"J]X1F5/AXIYUDDQG>9*=13!,C6-.=VYC0
M#CB:<6O%8NYD$F>PD!L^G)X$/MLN(B1O5L"Z"*V`
M'&86(':F?NB&$Q_S`Y(47J'I`6_)&=D);_[+G471_Y$P]8O$;)AE*0S(A\QOP5@H]8V"*A.(`R0(Y$$X!P'(1(%Q59,SOD-S\`VBN$CW\0]N4G\E`!9%^L#_[.UO>(A
MW'5,[DB8@:A";F0+WA;9>G1)%__F1QY0^.F):DMS@.T,2!O=.\QL"B@,**%R
M)J@DFQ3Y2&$G'AMY2WXHX,`.*&$F9Q\#0?5A
MT*9/%K_-H0Y`"CS8&0AU*5N@C/A!U90B0^UI[E_*ZWQ%5F:UB1SH&=@>O%'T
M5_D2!?[D8=LIG*8Q4KJF8$Y._"47Y0SRWIIL@+5,^=
M\B>:%UCY^W):(,V]Z]#DP/5I@:_AZN?YL\+,0S(E>+BO3"+U'Z[(+0J$;?/R
M4#=-QS+[\M!1#=D8C56YKX[Z\JAGV+9F*#U;'S>H]^/O(:`F!/SGDOH&;+2$
M@091+O(DJXYHWLG1%ITS]\$LV'0BBV>+>TP^;F=':QBS6+;9&
M1>-EMRYCD#>
M'J?TV0:';5$,=4$,F4(,[1#Q!TP=LSIM31YKI@%5WF[UL\0/29(\C*=R"A\'40R3T.0)9)Y1!0"
M$[@UQ18J='?X/D#$P>XHW2,J:10I.N\ZZ^/@1H5`UFY2=%Z:=E/)U!GG+54O
MZ)!?6C:SF^Z&MF$:?6,TE)VQHLC&4%=EIZ\,Y6%/Z3O:0+=&QKHDG3UV-QR7
M+68K$'E*9QZ^S7+13M@-`FD&S!30!KM_93Z?&DR25,;^;G109/A=(;-AUG/T=.3*)8"DB22F[+6Q-CE$QL39_%DYB:T6?,-]AI-
M9G32,+`)[O'IR?PJXQU#LU;^Y:?=Q>+./I>]`[U8U@I9DVAV6OG
MTD5X>G)+0A*[0>?QUB.0'#ZV2>4G\-F7;F/B8G/6=.:&[$"G)WG7UM"KM"BM
MOT9/2M^)0B*Q%K_^U&?=$9-9%*,*1*'*>A2T"914`BZ_(\!49FV!RK``[_`<>H9V^Z:]X1VVZ1DPFF('G25F2MXK%
M=I'8(QK$#'RKZ!8MS4DZB[QS:3##IK%L&C0##2.K#NLL3.>8TDM:&9$.>Y\O
MHMB-'["I+]!N/LJ7V*K<9I#V3I/&.7X1(-=0P$
M47B;HXKU/P6]-I,\T-WZ)0B'DZ+.L/6[GQK\#]](2R%FVM#+^+?;H:&^T>DR59$U%Q0ULNYR"&
M]QF,V0H9!?A*2`891ML)V_1W&^YD.A0Y,BH:=#_>$54'E9[[
M'D'F\T-L*,PD?;9@LIZ-N@_87(3\\RADRV[`0')^>@_"=D9;+]#&P/B'FRB.
MHWL2\S,4N_23"N4DM+TX,!COV>[B"6+LO!NQN$C[E@R/ND)Q4"H'UVYV[HLI$5K)\Z[4$-^T\>$M@0
MK#+A?!T%T>T#?MJ5_LKR9%DVJ68_JL,JK(',)\8#S`&Y(A?*(!?8,(R.Q*V^'*(3)%#>[IKQ`#\'M5I1=57U%:`LR0@N0\W6
MC-DO3,Y@K_T4*>9^YD\87Y9;@T62BB&(QV(]JI&['XFH#H='RCD4CE_.X)A%
M@==!["]`PE!IEA!L,5XWPH#0(AQL44I#[+M@`@Y09)5`X"!38F;WP$Z!=.AH`\I]0-9`*X4](*5D,@LI"_'6Z+E="YN@
M*&9;P@;QU,2=!M%]/ISE7+I$+GE"IE1XFDHC.,`*N8)?KK(4;"^^)34A#6\7
M%AS5CF>\]?I'-J=!"LD]XS?*^?1D=;L>Q0'\&[C?![760&M@2&)P'J@`JMB8
M0#:B\C17T&@VXCPAP640W_0A'`/TX+`[,A!$),*=OLHI$B?WD
M3]3G^#I[E,G6:,$$T+.'XJ1!Y[/@@J"M":.3^E_X)6^J]IU+]WDD/Y*U/Y6Z6X`K1@GL2(U&*8
M5;EJ.67(^2E9HE$`O8\V#2C!F.`2W"1F8SW`$6.(!%>/X@U>2+*;!+0B_(&^
MLY+`T=AD)C@G4!#7=)9,+M57X+U*F"ASGC[[DLRJTR5.,WD!84HKZ7(=UYY+
MOU*'_(QYXQ^1!4L8X[%X2(F-4_'Y[!/\3@'*Y#F.6>:5*%\"E&A]L\L,!&]N
MGX/V0.1%-`#-KSK6>2R"692%"0%V
M#"M+8*'1*"$UO-8F?:&Z+*T*L*NR&`@;-TFCC4BJ&`_QT#A$ISL&4ZFB&RJG
MH)3K8*6PTC.9\]A03^CCY*@N7PD'%^XSPP`]2V%;1
M4QIXKQI[\X*;F\H]3P]GMZ!)#/0YC+*;=)H%/68:[:8FNV>J6E?M]F33-!79
M,+N*[#B6(ZO*>-@?.N.QWGW=,*O=LFT/Q0T+]C`,YO`"BQ(YFH,L-R<3,11G
M70F[)DK8#_=943G?GJ)Q43DO@+!!OK.JO8,\,1#4J)
MQ@.B\4`K&P^T''0;U&_N5&VT558VL_RPS[($.M(-N?5#FCN&\2L6U'Z,)%%,
ML@9INC+\=9BO0%-#Z!7G'Q6>YYF
M>)Q*IV&U\*H8LW.LM?"JT0ZA))"WJI%!2TR#5A2$_Q'[*9'Q&E;HE#WHE+/&
M#'7X*%3)5E![9AZDT],R^@327H4T53N(6_)BK(D>.'NGW^?@)GK@"&0=%;+:
M%7O'^D$L/A=!]QV;J+K=%!/U*,,>!XC+YE8!=(J2&O+#8AH.26Z=
M+!3($L@Z2F2]IC_8RXM`*I4C7[%<9^('/BUDO9S2!J(]6I#[F1?>]E+LEO!/
MK$JZ#+]B&4WLA[=]+$^^CKC]?H4--KZPJC&ZTK8+3@;CWL`8F+JLF(8A&U;?
MD1U;5^2!WAN:AM*U%6WTFH*3W=9"T@Y9M':$=G!!X+-B/`0U-C_!0C^$M/0;
M25DSBG\69Y(7OW*^YB=K'=5U"+F,FYDZ(GJDL:Y/:*P8MU1Q%S&XZN4$.41HCRB
ME>41[>#;9MXDLJ
M7!IH6UTN-_*O>HS5P29">!U0>('_8`CQ=:3BRS*55HJO9IIEG["-:K59-8N#
MU6:T\$:7^=P?_HR09'N09&>JW91"8U$4MJVBL(.87ULM+SJ$U27DS3[7!M%LJ<1'4?NF:EDCN0>ORX;AC&6[;YBR8_0\\N>IJY@*Z\RFO=+93>'K"
M+^_9P/H%/PO.K>5S:@F.2\)AHC$A,KR1SMB\9.`6^@='^5LQIHW>^E>G=EDH'HA;W>:S4RO,36@97?]NG$['\-,"LA31B8YJ+M?B,N/K#?+UD2"8!H-';R4RGL:H,3+4)H"7MV`#5C'8W78U.]^Y,:TF,K?,0Q1#/?N/KNO0ATFOYA4'[HIV:VGNJ-BD]?+A+6+O`V(7&AM
M8FRLVJBZ[8U^(7&)`VI_O'#+AXY2-+EBB44`]\`]AU]R1Q"D+E.YJQZ=YBE@
M^386=Q\P]%SNZ\!T^;99:]8[N,]H(`D?;6&ZJ,YON5C;8XN*PR_9=$)J:)'T
MNR_`+KCEBBQ2,K\A&(3I2,^5U(N+Z&U=1*\"@W*N;3"T4%Q-MS7I[[?HCK)@
MN2VUVRE_V*S/A2"+(Y`,:L>R16KH.Q0-0S)9$@WV\4F&!F:\/T*`I!K"/-H?
MW0M3Z'W*NS&YB3,W?I!4B[+;!KW1!!&TC.>%D?-.F?ZS&T]FDGTT#-^N"!"#
MOJH_#WYAW@CS1DBZS7@-+)ONT0BZYN._&>P.EDW7%OA^?_R.S:WSR,$Q,'R3
M(S4,UL*,$6:,$&L[QGLON\V25,1HWA_'HR4CRJ??(2*52TF]?A5U#'+@
MR7+.9WMT+.5]KLGV?"*U?\=E5]>TGHY5()1E55A+6)_"DEM1TKT?!+2ZT/4]
MR9VFA!7Q3?V`5F"Y*:\3]!,P=HT6XMV[.-)L$F0>J\.K
M][(+?/Q&;*HK8ME#$MKY::EU]U?JRMZW\
M6GQVYY\516RBB$T4L6UW25'$UE`(BB(V4<0FBM@:0,)'6W8C:H]:+M9$$5N#
M=BR*V)J9PE2I75-ID&C%8(H67_8U9!JDCFMY-,&Y@B515RFL!.V0:O")FBU
MJ"FKK+J5HD:!RQ9Q(&A[PQ%H:RT+\JH;I4W\UXJ@``>LL0ZP0M$+1?^.I`SH
M>*=-,J:Q:#R,CF_+K-W&HNV0W$2"O7:"MO0RXH@IF93^VQF/W-6/+GIE@5)EU=#69$2\+R.7T2QPM2)P^
MX&RDM!=ZH[\R?X&)>CN9?C08*9:JC6UY:)MCV1@J8]FQ!UW9L?J:;@\=K3\T
M&S3]",MPRG&O;!H5AQ>MF"$YL*1[$A,^Y=)-H>,#]M7S4]C^H%=TN434L5W:SR=N=&79.S;#?KG[M3
M"=8?'4LTJ"#*9C1Z`"M\@WTTI9R_L4[L`6(/IMZ2[,`&!J'[
MF1^@VY*PTX*
M076/>*/DYN-7(;]=0;"FR]JI?M3?J5]H%K2.Y
M*7!.(M3J/M3J2GB4#02S?VQJX?_],-,M)+DFR^P+>2SR2=1=[OR7(UXY8J$FVK
MVQN:8UWN:4-3-O2N*?>ZUECNC>V^:O?M<6^LOJHBT5Y3D?A6Y>OC/WJ3U+_S
MTP=I&L5`#@$L`"`X/5D`3EC&F+]:"Q]X\A864$X!J4CU&1U!1MS)[/3$16S3
M@6,$EI_3P$P4TI%;^:RR6Z"65,H2'+Y5&\6%T\56I\PUJVJSZXBJ
MSC\4X#30P(;C4SSMZR.0VZ>>U42COX9H1+>ZXZ,+2@.MP&H#4TXNT,\F22K%
M;DH2B8:^WH=FW$KZR>Y4I'+>_=M*R:;B'X3F.P2;'YPZU'-U-5%HY\;?VB$#
M!=ZW!&9M/2TX+:&%5UWT[..R9F7KR8&;S/!_>*$$8,/B]U[H781WH#9I*?Q.
M+GQ&?4.U=7TDCP8C0S9,?2CWU:$NJ\-^OV]HCM8;:%MI0?D65#]J."GY)3@Z
MIR=^.`DR#/!+;I)$F,5*,UIC@%_JPX,=T8ARW96&;H@K#?%9\=G]7E=M\Z9G
MC_U,FQ9D'V#A5;$I4,5^TBA_8!>FYI.0?+W^6KO(FQ#R>Q@36.\_Q'L*#V]1
MM>JVM_JKZX=/4LMV@Q""<9Q64H)M]T@TZ
MV=NFF:UODC:9VL5.MT[=E7B%H/&FT/C5+(I3.27QO/'T4XEP"?II"OT@4Z
M[9"2E^F,Q(+,MYHKMIY8Q222IJ;-M?7I@\U;D7:?(KP5]=`.A;9C'=F.'0L@
M""`((`@@O',@"'NJ.?94,\LGBM#6#KV?]]PK1>LHJNB5\G[P+:I4!*X%KH\/
MUT*."WP+?!\OOH4L%[AN$ZX;6%OX.4LS-Y"F6>B)<8'[H&-;U,2_1[0+I`ND
M"Z2_!Z0+`2_0+M#^7M`ND"Z0WDJDM^.B,YK/23SQP4-=N`N>J"H\U-U2MV,=
M`7D+F?8.99I`ND"Z0+J0[P+K`NL"ZT+`"Z2W%ND-O"H=D#CUI_Z$-F&-ICC]
M-TK\(QU:V#"2[AK&$1"UD&3O4)()I`ND"Z0+`2_0OF([NK%!#;E`>UO1;B@"
M[>\0[<>@V5MQ;_K[^=6Y=!O=D3C$ICD2;?7CWI)P\E">."&3+/93GXC$W[W(
MO&Y'[=I'P`%"[+UR.ZI^#()/H/V5VSEKBHWS42!['])=5\05VSO$O&EM,.Y7
MH+VM:#>L3M;?'^:/P9AKX/7J.(H)?+?JMMY$HBIU/S2M@C`3:NP](EY$
M)-XAUL^TIK1)$;[I7H2[B$"]1\2;7>&@O$.TJQW5%(A_AX@_!B'?BOO5SU&<
MWKJW1+YQ)W\23Q)7J7L6H@ZB>!'%;DH`2%BFZH:>N$7=7Q%3I^LTY6)%2+,](E[3
M1/7:.T3[F=J4,+OP3/<0?.HHBLB6>(>(USJFUA1&%XC?Y_UYQ[!U@?CWA_@C
M]$X;>I&:A?[$7[B!N$+=+X7KIC!EWB':!=;?(]:/09T)I+^V0$VDR+Q'M`M>
M?X=(%[S^+M%^#+S>R$O4^3P*Z=WI(B93$L>8XIM&DS\?'T6XIENG:JOC6"+<
M^@X1KW4T1=RCOD/$GQEZ4^P7<9&ZCXO4KBZN5=XAXH_!7A5(%T@72'\O(KX5
MEZB7Z8S$DA_>D23%ODGB!G4_I0N*(6[3WB'BA4(32!=(?P](%R+^G2)>?@5B/2
M74-1($L@2R!+($L@2R!+($L@2R#K`!4\@Q7-K\T`@O;Q48
MNDK'M$6ZV?LF`JW3%:GS[YP&SHS&B(&CS#YL+N:[FF@D_>Z)P.HXNKCD>]\T
M8%H=56E*EVE!!(1-"/D]
MC`FL]Q_B/86'Q1NVJFY[J[^Z?O@DM6SWLEY0SM%0SJ.I6/_LI\H(.B;8&@]0:0T=4L
MBE,Y)?&\\?1SL=3V0M!/`^@'F3I]:)>TI%U4!+F_FC;?5'FHV4]&N(XCV;RV
MK3P69#X;+3)?%5L23^\Y@/8_64A*WM"5CJ0IJOH4,S8DDM8.Q;9C7=F.'0L@
M""`((`@@O',@"'NJ.?94,UM?%B&N'7H_>\V3_N'5/+QQ4K3:L7B7L]=\=AO9
MSEN'\[:
M2[1>`^^%!B1._:D_<5.22-%4\L@B2OQ4>$);HDS3$9D!
M[<5>2^2*P)W`W5'A3DC--F-/[XK+H?9B3],L@;W68J\E6J\5UT._GU^=2[?1
M'8E#[($@N:%W>N+>DG#R4)XS(9,L]E.?B+2ZK>D/O6,IW780LA!"*[ZM6L(`
M:"_VS@[">LO3R`3.7BDRNX+I6HQ`K:,8XO:OO?C3U4Y7U04"6XO`=CI.37"3
MQE%,X+M53^DF$F5&6\P+,44TM+W8X^W:!/+:B+RS@]C4PA?:2%Q:(G;47NRU
MQ`X3N!.<=V38:PGGM>+JZ',4I[?N+9%OW,F?Q)/$+=$.(F:ZN"1J,?Y433A&
M[<7>V4&*'81CM)G$-#11H])>_+7$0!.X$[QW=/AK">\U\'IH$,6+*'93`A#!
M(B,W],3]T'8M::5C=D7Y8GL1J%DM$2\">ZMR
MY]J',\,47E%[L=<2JTS@3G#>D6&O)9S7R`NB^3P*Z;W0(B93$L>8,)=&DS^%
M#[2U8(LC^ENV&']:Q[!%<6E[\7>F.@=!GW"%-KPCTD3\H<4(;(E-)G`GT))"-P)W`FI*;`G..]]
MX$[P77MQ9YDMX;R77!+E&P1O*5FX\`NCXA#-XGQS@\M/EU]_E/Y+H?_Y4&`>
M#I;,7(_@R>@_/DA_?P7:UWUF2O]3X"H@T[3RS7O?2V!2[VCF&)9X?]&?V4^;!Z+*GJA=U&66%SC0M?D>]H/HLF?OYR>
M2-(_EM88NW[\3S?(R!56J_?NW=A+_@GO$Z_^LC0!JH`?OI+ISQ](%'S[,K)-
MS9;A/ZJF*O+_*HK:_79U/?RF6]8W35$UQ=*5;P`#W_OY@^]],QV["S^;]F@P
M4OMR3QUKLM$?.G)/,TRY:P^[8].TNJIN?U/AM5_PY/S@2[=._(KI^O++CY*J
M+;X7ET[]R^OKR\\_2LKB>X&:?V=)ZD\?*MA\C>LWCH(@NO?#6\F-B93.B#0%
M>)V>W"'$$BF:LB)_:1&XH>12X$EW%'J2E\7X'KZS(+$?>.:BR^IP_2?0(5Q?_;\2`D1^TSM*5U2EQY5_H7WX=CK[*0-:?>E^N8(D)
M'-A=)$"H-U'LD9A2\80$F"`W@?,4/R]7N/,=?B7,6"X']X.[5OX0XXW\7*R^".T]U`
MC&WE5OBI_358PK;KTK]CBA&KQX)*W;3;@.Z&
M$\(#DT)+[4E+Z;8M]-%1"3'-%K-]VH>
MZQUQQR6`("[ZWD'PNX$,U,`K%W'1)R[ZQ$5?VV5=DR_Z_#`%SR_Q)X_N^)B#
MEQ0>GHB@[C"":IC6!OL0$=0F!N-$[77KD*8?4Y'UOLFHW-N1A([:@XY2+:&-CDN$=5N2>"!P5GY2U:QV(.UM
MV2(O3OBHIHO@.Q=)DA%O-%\$T0-AN29?LG@R),AF/$MOES\V4TG,S^\K?T=L$#"%!;=!;Q&SDA11WU;MFS+
MD0W35.6^X>BRJMN&8=FJL`O*J@6F0Q^?"+8$C(^O;DJ^$CCVQ`]\%U_\-8J\>S\(+N8+UX^Q8\$VH*(O0:4W5+K6V##D
MD6./9:.O#^6>KNIRK]?O]S1GI"I=.ZPD'*>3=GH.?/
M4CGX)2P"X`EO&>0XQ?3N7#]`032.8IK+]M;3?S,/4?RD>^N`_X*[K&M1O?DG2+`/IF*H9C=K^;
MJF[ISE.D8SA.OVL`K8P,W9(-2QF"1.DA_0P,?310M+[2>PID:DJYZ$":SHUD=3FL-*"T)H/4@B12&1_\K!!6TGR7@
MK"0)27J3OS(_)ILP,>AQ4.2ZH5AJ%307OXV7@*,/ACW3LC5Y:#A@2*K]D=P?
MJ[;V^U9?'YJBKJ8YA]TV3'5,U5KL.'WZ1
M35,W6>P5Q]G3>;^9.IAI-IHBNO[TZ;6^8\,9'7EL@>MH:)H!2+9[LCD:
M6K;9'75'YH#9:\KZPRN.TL##J[IJ6YL?7E\V5NN'-VRK@6?7-;-K;WYV8]D(
MK9W=4%]]\BLW(,E7,99M
MS0`U;H**LQJRV===93=4_"V\+J64T$0.H_$U),DG`,BU]2L
M:O`++1AL%&[-M:2\#K>KCK0?_M4WQS.5R.IZ1(/!9C>'@9\^\$N1;*QG8%5=
MB^;]LO"V4+O6Q-1TQWJ=%MHY"V\+NVM96,.[G,9QL;$YJJG;KNKKSJU;KWV="*[15[9%M>2`6?O;`+\6SOIZ%+4UI`A=O$;=K9;/FZ(^.>D`N
MWB)VUW*QV3@>-M4MV%M=Q+.SWK)TE*98TL^>]Z5(?B+(<6#.W1Y&UPIEU;;5
M1Q@]).MN#ZMK6?=-/,MO*))Q%'\BMVYP1=(TH/<8F]"R:L.I#:=KV/8W4]5`
M0U+QM12=MY?QKO9L9ZA;RHW//6%74CW
M0J\WC[(P'7V?!)E'O'$8^O`53K2E:+TY)[=LV1GJ%E=W>X:_1&_^UA+8;*F/PH#[Q5H2Y*I
MR`I]#+V5?R8V;A%5P8EO+N7K6V-3TKJG+YMA$
M:38VY9XQZ,O]_E#K:9HU4HU^@UJ&(=02Z2R(\.[N(RVF.#V9D82^B.$+80Y#0C!7Y()!]^@!78'N&@
MZ[8+.YCYDYET3V";_GP.B\1`;1+0&FZ+]C/%/FSE-\^ERW+1=!8EI+8WVHJ,
M[BR-P&@`_,^HSF_H3^$$VG"8BIFP<0!GEMS>G);9T\.`JR$+8-"A4GFZ
MH`R;E1-0N:XSXKF<>UI&2;ZI@D@B.9Q
MKP!%6QLJ[4P*_XNXL30"&\63_BW-^UJVI*VE
M0-[*1CWM0%XK'(\+>DN6I'*,DP2%7MFG7G'TAJB5HVS[=E`1U9)>E0)YJWS)
M@_2,?;$KV4"O9!`3ST^%]MBO5])MB/803LF6)B2(7M4M1IYP2K:H3Q[GX@F5
MLI?[$&V#FUJA5!HHEU3#;H=@$MA;Y8JHK7=%'B5(&!5-IXG:C$R=56`XTW21O7,4&2$K)SXY(H9^'(AL
MRV7[$4]D?TIAFP[^=[4QHN_*2L@_NN///&&,Z*VT'`6R!+*.$EDO'&JULPX&
MRPTM;M)RN9MG0YTVS!Q.(BF+'F&U=/[`S6?U/++%_U?Y6E??(IMCA/[2O[*_,1/R16)[]C,43_R-@%4;SR0NPY8G88^[LI]M:O*FCURC)[6'QJ#7@D:HP*:G9RQ#D8PV^&)
M3V#@`[Q36-WNT!GT$`S#,5CER@BX1.O)
MBC*`/]MCU8$E"JBH%:B\9,O;&!0U=OWXG]A1#-;.YK1I5S+ZOB"3E'A#_\[W
M2.@5,SFW!:/U@Z)T#<2*#59&7]%TV1@8P%QCO2^/>X[J*(YF]IP1'Q+THO&B
MJK7IZ*A7`:@I0R5K\"X')EJZ\>1DU_[`&9LZSG-5+!QI.C+DWDC39'MD#%7=
MU(R!:NQU/&>E'VQX[7ZGO42V!A/+1C&O6X-9'TPM&5C#-JY
MKPZ&LM8;]PRKWQ^!2&8GT.APENX+3E`,*1Y]=^=^2'&*3_V._>>8JE3:QR!7$D?RN:@!]I$'?5Q\O1`5L=C5>W:&B@3)>\B^LL7K:)-7K#_@Q_841X%M5YT
M8(VU$?_EB]FJ`YMPW.ZR`'[1@>D(HNZ2O=""`ZNZWGUD-K[DP`8/%VU&T@VU
MI=F@Y]?;TGD,K4;V1V-+KX#*BVSI`BJJ>?S&]',SPE]D3&M/##1;,J:UC0V\
MMQK3Z"-7EA_-%T'T0,A5=I-,8I^N\W6S2,+;L3^YQ1OQ-C/(?)9NY$Y4I$W;X$._:F[H3)AIF`0E4:;VW63_Q6?\)B
M0RZ63(CFG_CM#@4=YV*WPH.J'?C-#H7-(Q^U$'TC#VP8)AWCPC%L6=KRQ?2+
M#NRLNI-XO0?5H)D?IJG@E!L;_K,$D.X8[!,+K#/;T4&:V\I0=I2A)JO=H:59
MAMWKFZ,&S?SX@U1'<=`Q%=,H"*)['.BP-/$!M.%T;9?/RM2/TQ.<1@$VIC3%
M01-\_L=9E,6P1/#P^$\>G5%$QTGP&1FG)\60C(\_/EF6\)X&1W0=,3CBF
M6QOL4K2F;D=GAC-+/TC72C$U9TL(K+C51DNZI32P>_62#@O@PGAZ<1_.V.A!D16FF'#4@UT=3Z**35F1C'UA94&W/?I9"BKU
MYE$&KXV^3X+,RW59$6D*29)(F$.=))CI@1[7ZX/#:.G*KVQ
M;HX;FPN=JU^,G:'^E0KU2Q.5G\J2+I*B3T_*K&C)3:2IZ\=(Q1G)4Y_QI@B6
M@U_')*"/T3^`,^,#WA*1^YR_8ZNOSGTV#I.$?(R?%;G/[?'8A-LJ@/!JKA6Y
MS^T+8^Q,"HO"R=VBY
M"2`CH#TMS`TA09RTV\TW!$X?M4\:!'9+TEH%:E^-6DMI!VK?
M=(-@5+30T5P@[(W(GX-;C3)W#46!+(&L/5_-[39"HKW1V+V.4C>AYG^
M=*GKJ.=Y/I;ZPHNN3R?:+GPPUNE0EIOEN2VKATQ]96G_^,`_:7;^!M40=E?[
M;JJJ:AC5X32RM3P=2=5'W7[/D+L]39,-Q>C*O9YCRP/5
MCO3A%TTS#.;SE8#?-626RE!20,U7LLCBR0S7&])&[NS-Y@%27P=(M:L^`N2S
M1UL!B8LDR58\^1NYIW])&@6--4.W'6H
M]H;ZZRG(\A3701;'))P\7,O2G@,W$*R1=,REMK2$%@LAZ#:F]
M'2!UH!D^L$!'"4TFW5:9;W0=KJ/
MN*QVD)=QU.]A3$`\_8=X_PV*#G@R=X8NPRLR`2Y-?9+T8C#%P]LJTS:3I];:
MU++N*"_EJ4U!4@[JAC`U'?<8:-YUE*+[T?)7QK4^_
M,ICAI%+O.AI$28I_V-2&W#YXU+5\9*.&
M?X4ETN0B9,2[`7S7#,!]!-_>$-AXW!_(_BNQT!UW9MDQ;,?7^4!E:
M'+Y5L9?PD%VSVA9%_DB3%H=Q-Q(BZ`B.R^L@DWA=P#H,2>NU>C.W>
M`X*&VJBG]ZR>W-4,539&0U.V]8$J@X!R=!RO/=*=9T22;C\VQ@\"KL.@[`]:
M&T.\WAV)W5M"&7OHIF2'6%P>.VMVC9%A]H:RXO2P[XS5E\&0&0"KJ=;_S]Z5
M-;>-).F_LM'OL.O"41T]'0$01*]VVY;"DG>F]\4!D44),Q#`P6&)_WZJP)LX
M6!1!LBC`T>&6*1!`YI>5=V5AR\;``E;%*JL[>AZ13P8]/YA[&7D9NW5=^-:X
M\]OXHD^6=7XC=R"^PY=I&,_8,CU?DR",HY^%$!4OE!;Z8//WPN_Y&F=_L>S;
M:M+1_&UX3+N1ZX=M@;B%FT6\(<0&5[7>%/%CK'NCJ$BV=&5E7O$E5Y
ME^6RS_G8LQ&MKJLDQP[`^KIF$+-!@;GG3LDFCU$2+.&Q(581V0`
MR0^\&ZI/NY=P]7XVH.H(@K<5TG0\AUQ](Y!A4\HKN"=1(N
M'+B^TSH)EC'9PS?^SQ,D>S'T/3($WL-R#P!J9%-`L,+,Y^T]0,0:H4-$
M/<>BTL[TT\8'[#2VV-42QKX-$F5$@@E)3NP/`>AHRVHS(2C"^*R(KK;*&1!:Z`);*Q&3G3F2U
M"*^,1\?AI4:?QVHWC[7`\/`\%IK'BB*/!$-@>9IN4!&TVD/-M@QP16/33QD[=EXH)6Z@(\F7#D^
MFA@U2ZT4'U%CDQ0M19,?D(\&-8[G(VYL7="L4G])RXPS3T(#1,UZTYN@##R7&UH4E,CYM#1+-,Q-,^P#(]R3\*Q
MP9[[V497H?M=L<6W]C^ZIT[?;=1$,_B3@"Q_0TML^H^L[^73X=1*-J*W,_
MRZ16)FG,Q6@0EAI!S[@TMV#9OI]2(E?//[TD=.^D5SGQP]PS/%[\],:MIL6[
MG%;\[OU0K/?BA/JC^`(!H0;GBP%I3V91D^N5W"Y!RX^DYJ<10W^-%2E&)&S=O
M8FB5\]UGI1(1HWDI2U%)&G==$L.\K,0**IOUO125S0H+4[-D2:#$%F8!W4$
MPN8%[Q#'11ZAPN%Q-`*Y`7?L`=(L>T")9;JFH=,Y]VJ5]P;/SL.6,T+1M$M3
M*73JAWB43,[%&%:#6W&G=/$RX]N=Y]1[T3L/G3]'*5!J-U17H=$J&TZV1(K=
MQQ.6I+=Y=COYDZO'$"O%\UKO"Y5VS9R8+==I,:AN-CHO1OL5H$9U:
MB]&;B@N@T9N*\_.\UE3T-F(/!G3/\"99#'"]C2CE@WI+<2F,>DNA$AJ]I3@_
MS^LGK9U23>TW&/;HWWG`@?4"_G;L3[XP.&(9!S7@3YECO]/E]3UEDSS\,Y@<
M(]28;.,W1VX+D$Z&(*!AI$!->+9CF;K&&M#@CP*H3$8&H[('^.B]D"BJ8`C\B5Q"QR#NY`D^X?EJ<
M6DC%&"_(ESLNLN\-NIA0X!I#?A/=U4V-##Q3X!=RW5M'=H_:EW-K5YI\,F`&[WNU214
M#T*\\V?"_HHNYX?886)(KNO/OG!JG^UH_!?S#YA*MD/Z-J@#:.L>P1K!)@=U
M.'0U!UJ>YE#;&3H#XCD6^"'>HD1;@V$(:X
MW)LI-ZET5WT)[W]T.?TKLPV,ZU]4KW\+`DYM6%M@Z:IB$_."_;1Q+U!5+;MYL-Y`+O7S)A#R['A`&NZ;5L:H9ZA689'
M-$H==V`;YL!QB;R;#U1P\[=)WQZ8H]NF;5)7,QU+UXB%;,UV,-6(Z1H.,?3A
MP!JNW'PDW/RJ]7MA-U\66DEBY=S\S3$!EW7SZ\@O+6N#>C8>.`/-,PBGWX9<
M60^(H6'3&0!O:%/=:Z"?VZ(6,A3O]O.EJ91;'+PT.=S/-R_FY[>M
M=>K]?$S*A_F,G"1-N$5^E5>'P"I:60!98)?5=FC,B&+%29D&5%^N$I![*N3%`-6&J&
M+!+02A)[;96).O+?EP)MT%W0.,Q#JIK&59PXN>K8>O#?OG&A&7!:@RCG7[SE
M3/8//"Y)&G_'XA02;FU=E]M48E'(74-L:D,7&*8[T`T+FS^JAPF##:])GH96
MPS49A"655T.XABNJR.5I'R2BY^94
MA.FN;@VA!S0>%G.8!N*X,$H-#7B6[@''(9`#UC#(R(#E2;75;[]Q'-JNABU_
MX00&0Y)2F>-3P2<3+TY'VT_*Z3PZ)&;<44#;*:PT#N6J&)9WP8I2VX1764S]
MH!I:E<5L'VJ(VMG96T)-/ORM_*
M'9[3W%9_OL3#-NF')\;@(O$`M"+WH%SB019:26*OK7A81_[[$O4-9HI@'[IQ,/QH,$%:(!J"%XP\=`V;/45M&4_
MPKDJ:'/*R@[[N]1H[/79)^N'BB=1,MDY.(L?*Y-.D)/AID:P\NDV9_1C6U/`
MDHU@UJ7]V/;69:4?:QV=#CRE'WN,S5EU@J%+;MQI6^W4^[$Z+)]OCX7[TP%2E4'I?&R#&CVS'PLKPRRI^BYIQLK$7I*F?[JZD&.[<1G2,!2W'F]*,8=8$IQAT=X&)R0.T!%V0%RL@-.+CM`1=D!278P9Y6
MNUH7'[T])N$X^)6]3!$GI\;1WWY9A@BK:79VGCW'"7]%
M^RW@X?SZ]QE+(C]<9)SN6?(S&+&;;_?S6_[VN?))ZW?[O/URAVH%&63AN9!5
M2^Z5X0Y0D3M`CCO@A-QI//%1RZ?V"CYR@.
MXZ>9(Y)]N]\ZC[J0"5Y.Z6(U'GWZX2#_XB?_8ED0/:VO[S;.\W-_/Q+.J[IB
MGF;<3TB^L7`^Y/8YF'8;Z_G!UQ\2:\Z9Q!]E.??ZQ%G!7<5Y\P1YU7%>GC?O
MS`IT*U!U.8=^^F*`-1_
M9Z.<1W-!9RWR`E0"H?J>UWY0!W$RC9.B6/F8=1Y;0*A1!%*&\IKY+HG'^2B[
M31:9DTWW.1@E<1I/LMO)A/_F?I9F[*7SB.(K1E1\PI+%!>)(SH=S&D=^.(A?IGG&DL7I6='3W`ONJ/H%%C6A2"-S#:PZQNM\TCJ-]"U(
M_[4;M[Z\Q&/^_LND8K>!A8:IO#,L!ZP7)RQXBH9OHVF(]O*+APS2H\3'@
MG2<1>U0+5+'ZSK`T@8=S.BL^[CBS1BY8+TU!^
MU=JO?C)^F$TW'>3OT4^^0MFXV#U77-!99W@%I/(!3Q60M].B4=35+A>@6R9'&V..M^IHWV>+;RS#T91I'19O2VKQ^8YG/#>MX.4N!
MHYN_Y"'_XMAE$W%_+B`;'Q:%'G&GA#V+YPEO>KDU^BO+;B_6+K.[+_9^(G#N]F9O).J7+97+:[L,N*$6OS/1T=C512<5J^5'7_RW
MX"7O:&-#I60!@-6OE!XD65[.XY0L3QB_T`O>Q$^2D6@O7.T*%Z&4B]>'$BXG
M#\+QO$=U^>,-CW3CGT6LU,O9A>3,PNKG6@Z2LS^9G[+G.!SWTG4YZ>K'B_1"
M=3JA,JCR'OT^H5KTI@U$MC^9]9)T;DGJ:H&PEZ%V9$AUJ>FQJ\8.&YCVN:&V
MM4(0]9*U)5E];J@7KE,)5Y\;ZN7L/'+6YX9ZZ6I?NOK<4"]4IQ.J/C?42]*1
MDM3GAGH9.D:&5)>:'KL=[##%M-CT0\R-+;545WYSWKH)T9E]]8OH?`O6^?ZN
M]E>_]/Y[H9^6>SV[NJD!\BA89`K\!+D('_=6.3_
MDT>,@[M8WL\!Q_IKT'FP=4OYHLX>$UXLZ[).OQUE,;_A&O'B[XZCC*&]!=Z%0W8OJ@_;
MJ-^S:5;<>Q&1B2LVC'DO`OR"ZQ8!OJ8+">#!-E_\C>B+7RY_FO38Z]2X@A&(
M4H9]&_9=+ZX(T;J--4'JM\I48;UQT%4Q)_PQ+(Y5Z2B8R("B)&=9ZA^]L=C/
M[[(T>)J/4ML&]&L_8^..PPFHUGBVO5[=U3VH$7%
MB!&3%!,GD`51<4"(^GW@8JZ($"4.(HM&`4N7);_;R?KCV>8L"$%'DJ?9]VCB
M!\5>*0&_P,4NF.@H^*+03J'V\B@^U0-*^*"85%V,'YQWJ0
M-T'^$+IY=8+C\IH>W@6\RD%3$;=%\
M*.PW)DYS]!]#MKB^TTA#;)KTAXZ!CJW"C3:5];46B[3XXAS$8BHDY\`H"$4\
MSJ5A,V8+PP+O$P9BU8*WWB3.?8)`;&C9>L5N:Y9M>8,86LK6#^3E;248?LC2
MU?ZE`Y1++WV7D#X`L;H[#`Z7ODU;]R(20@]Q+X2J"J&J8MXFJ/_IWS('9=\5B?DUW\*F'CH:`@Z.BY*81:!%$1$B'3V#YO[(=N
M$!.*4WI-H&X;1('G_[%4V(^[@CT;.,\_>'B-VS<1K9YV=LB#Q?B"K_[+YG.'
M;VR4BUKC[602C%AR$XDV#]'PP:_MQ;I!K)7MR)<0:^D=%;U8=T"L517D7K"N
M5[``!.I&D'LF&XA34WIA4D*8KF@8YFGP/>0-^G&'WMTP1ZX3,E"3`DI>LPLY?N0/*Z9,B;Z`<^ZU)N>JL"D,
M*H%0?8N\']1!G$SCA/-,[#+M/+:`4*-PL`WE-?-=$H_S47:;+/9H5+5^SR/+
M^UF:L7/D"-1&5/UL93VB\V[OQ07I&;N^U894^4[^!D@'W`?.PVQ^^,7BNOM\
M*GKGEKNN.H^O\@:V`=^B*6ECQ?:@"E"ACI2/;QM`M%4(Z4K]I.XP@-!-6O
MV-3C^(_'^*T8B2@F%L_N0C\3AW+$GCR`^7!^+=".JM_EK!7,-;#J&,O-6N'XOL1C_OZ'35GYJ,#V0W0^,KS`-*CR)6XY
M>.=)Q![5`E6LOC,LAVIQ'!I+LV^<PVH(`"H'Q2HJ:_??@R#>,98\7B[#:*
MW3M_\HAF'\*I`3R?IO+!45M[0,\>HR'J>Z4
MHYN_Y"'_XMAE$W%_+B`;'Q:%'G&GA#V+YPEO6ISS*^:V?F79[>3!?^NT9$`(
MU6]TVR,96VG'J+#2'.4P'XOZ[7A<3"3PPSL_&-]$`W\:9'[84)V@(%
MN&AK57^(R%T2Q,/R+NLH;7N8;V?IF*IVD0OI.S7RYY8``WS865[:3YM^/)/8D
MG38!VY+\?DG3X!##^V@YB\ZY*OFR(SOZ9J.KY*=XU%`;;\"U#Y<7<8-2AZRQ
MZG"=E4DZ6J8\XT+?99+'SAKB;/057_K?!!G-R3.R92F(]#5'EW==:B`
MH=,PI#HUT.Y][40]!1A?VM9:T(4L&%^`JRZX8'R!LV8X@_$%NDY/%XPO,'0<
M0ZI3`^U>:;?N,!^XRH_XC[N,/[[0=YJ,7Y$G5L9L<9E,IL6RS[@X/=5,5WFE
M]7:4'ZL5N\K_CS#ZH>#+GY5+51LLN0;)W1]*+H:VD%R>@OQ0\RO*(+GM^Y[R
M6=]5)7_9&>3_+C/"Q5T-[VG"M;Y-.B]V+U3>K_6;)5P.Z[=S^MVPH/P-MXK+
MGQU7V_$T.!1;:0'_]=`6@QI[-=\.`KVE7N_-A9[[^_,]N041D-NW+DIE)NT[.5
MGTA^T^]VMQY6/QNM'HF"[1V7UE._)D<5:>^RE+^T+BAYD3PGXCVZK:UMJ5^]
MKHJVEZ*2CCB`*KQ:G*1W*+7.V///_0$2Q[IA;;*OK.ZVT[09!]%?/M7IN*+?1@;)[
MK=4@E;^X%)';/P^$?P/#)!6F$*=AM^ASFDJ]3V^F_0:\[9D6OB=(XO35+79[
M9MGGS7;M4%E?7W7>-F#$*KW0%GKVA_^4W(C=NMLWK9!D2\Q,KH4GZ"K
MW<5>]S[?*2?[5\_W`ELT80@L=4.64L\_22[6CWOY]>SHO'SB\86>?HDX:3';
M0_ZP@DV[]<5:V>S9"EA7SGX&UAW`6E60`9:^8/$[5=>"_,TYT?,XGP(F)6#2
MJ'9//?H>H'E2%)1V.(JO)4H0^^QU$UZS%*T=@TU_7HLM(X_!?!65$U1
MJQU%U=],J=*7)\J)UO)FJHG6\L=JB=;QYRG8T>\1@(94W>)1K':^PH&@=;X2*
MW2NV;YR2:!W?);71.EZ!UO$*DX'6\5W2'*WC#Z%X*P9
MSM"]$'2=GJ[N.E3`T&D84IT::/>^=F@=K_-1,&W(@O$%N.J""\87.&N&,QA?
MH.OT=,'X`D/',:0Z-=#NE7;H>W2:24'QOD=*LH>^1\9+B[Y'QFJ+OD?=$-F(
MN;G%OD>*RZO\1D_%OD>*:ZJ\\:Y/WR.%E4;?HY.#UWY/"&UX0]\CT-<>?>A[
M!`C;@E!5["#PYP5&WR,C147?HT\!ACX>)F"M;,$/]#T"U@=AK2K(`$M?L-#W
M"#"=`":-#IZHV:NFPT=?T/LQ25*F^1TI\/;;X=AR^T-K2(VN'
MD?W3BP(_X&:O[82V(Q/.0DL&"?Q`5G>RE77F2>I%N261D\H-89(-$Y*?+<2X
MN!M?D#'_"L6YB9T[%KK7&29-26*Z:8I
M&19EG*X/?IRG<5+5G_PI!_=70B3+Z6;7\1
MPE7H\<8OJU--S$R%W3VDR659X7P7K9*C]
MGK`!B=EPNOFU1M;Z*@(O+VM&X.7HY>M6:/4@=VVK@[R56\J*:7_&-1S&'8+-
MMJT02\7)EPHKK-8.-*QW)@FMR'%4,QI"\;$=]W?H\\NB+XY3S[=C[:=QN*'7
M$^XZ1_UC^A?DJ=@>$7M=3"23/=V>4B(N:X!T:=FU;`"^TM+R`I$)YH6N\OG.
M-S2;\(EJ)L1ZIXZZK-[:81&]*(S4W^I\+&)'QZ%2*XXRWX[5VS0JW#BF/$K5.T%[MHT)NB,3M/=%6."_G:#E9;5.T+9MV>YNMGDODD6]W,CSEA.T\B?J
M/\X]'_S@^^+3,:BK[87H4H@O7%=EN#SNYIT'],?>C6OR175#$1`[$M8JX;
M*F_K"YIQ(/A?'+^"`R'X8H?UZ5^B$5?'IN-W":6@%I0L
MS%`F8)5D'"%^]>[$LWZN)EI:C[LU^YE7T337ZO4L4:[85CQX,>!_>%2FY&Y\
M2[-S48T\%67+[O@W$@N_J"QW_VJK_4#B]#(7_OLF*%W&HFI73*3:B(P;-[25
MWSE?Q0D3K;7)V>(L3I');Y+X*4EKK,?1JL*V'RE[V.)T"J\*BG^ESX3)BK$B[V-`AB4S
M55?^E/)1B>-U_3Z0D5-1O?N>BC$ZC%.^=QBMRL0:**P51>IW.*][2JXS'-2N
MN+U`>:OA>'&7F9,F3[^6%ZE?<>X4T^]V1>VOD@E,7UE%#DH'=DSGE,TIMWJ(
M\7JZ7J1LTM#I]/Q&,[+X%K,?I+@JLZI5C;024I3@,%_(M1:^
M'CIJE.^H2>IAJSK:E@:>OX-U7&YQ9)^^]?4&BJ=%7)M"JA%OIO*J6D&>24MD!_)SF9LFY/D04V,J7U#CXT,[>
MQ:N-JT!A[_E;:E;8&J?"##P5UA)*5NBO^K/])9*[HM[R:*ZRMH\415099(R,
M5I6;^HR);$'Q7B+)ZH(4E@W_RYCCAGSC1YA`'5U48?S%N!0"0[U/H0Y%0]S=H!`A#E!6V.T(H0Y@1L-S-LZ1;>^4-G(
M],WPIR-^_^?\&V'QL.(>1RNU;#]PS%!K%>.[_#FP
MR5*Y3L\,J:Y%>V>2%P_CPA[R@HBFKFSK*;^/?4^=N7HC$C+,R3S*2YWP?
M^)1D<5$]64,GE:Q(@](YKU3:[!]F\Y0N")'#R$!I?-=3/D'@%]+?)NV)*F'@G1J;B[XF]Y)#.R`W-\UM2
MW(T?XY_FR6W;MOHY?[^1>\\[EW_$M_S\S83#.AE=9^?Q/"GB
MU"0AO:@7F\90(^?L&'Z[L1^#B:
MCR0SC0\W6F>V+^7W)EYDX)Z/3$]+U*,`..QVE13>=;#/'
M^("F&-YU8M,]4#21B&_H^.[.#USE':GBP,!V'.W(Z?BSB%2V95/%_A-$/
M55S^O,M,:FN^HZ,&,?8/=12#4.CX.&7DX^%X19FQ.OJ>\EZWJCJ^[`S'?Y<9
MX8JM!N(TX0+>)F8JV-/!,/EP690#\.V4>C
MR/=>&1GBBIT%TE!=^0I9OAUHZ:=:OW=!L\DC8
MS#AY@L#[*1-FE`]L#_C?'I4IN1M?RS1Y\4;+[+0',N<3&QFM3NN>+;24)ZG8EFO^ZGD>YU,CM5,__^8$$^HQE>:TTE.'(FXGV.]\HH:;'C(*7Y[H
M"17Z+LIO?>I&_B"CB2@%2/)DLCPFLW\+MS0;K5XS*^']7710"PP`'0.09B>K:[=W;#Q*
ML'``U"F!@L4#CD[#$2P@T'0RFF`1@:7C6%*='FBVTLP.(_NG;]F]2/VDT75=
MRZ^$3E@\GXJDSYWS+3?E3_Z[M&03XP3JN;W(ZHDRI'80B/)RGN^+ZI6A[2SK
MQRB?&7J3%*NBE>=QOEL[1OPWY](NZJ@?)JK1BHF?#]]E#N*Z>,W=>/OT8N=N
M[CEBF2AU*[8A:4J&11FG]XQR7?GF-HV360UU\'X']G^2G-.3)T:=J%MQ[7B!
M\HO%[_19U4(N^0;#L$2/I4BV[WG!_G3S5\^U>GX@"V"KF_2Z7!;>FP-F1"3)
MC4DVBO?.2'ZC!64TC3>O84YZG_GO62+;CXA\0_GS(N';HV18G(MC^MT9`YXK
MQX"Z;L&/Q\`]QT?\F?$[8V#S&L8`Q@`?`UX4],0F=#L&U#_(V&H&5OD<60R$3\;',J.4%H3!^`LM&6X73.@&R2;$J./>JF]>`
MS))^E@E7:;P0=\_1HMEH]9\.T*7^7-%2OPM]2(`H"=!#!TR`!:
M-:&%UAU@JRZVT%,$8-4"%IJ=`*[ZX$(7%@#7)'!H#P/2&B$-?6M`U@G)0F/D
MUNBZ2EA>=``ZV:T(+S'ES5P15\]V"K
M-K;@N@=O#?(&SSU`:P(T..X!UM%@.GOI%.*OH=9>E_*4!8(D^6YP&QT03J@G!%3X[=DR&A.QYMKS-9,>9.OBF9B8B2,#[-'2E.S
M3OQ)H?A.MJ>[4.O+^FDJ:SVN7S5'+2^*>K+TDF?YRGM_UR+UA_^4?'K;5F_>
M5N.4+S$RNA2?P*B3M%X4\C$EQI4;*+]H7<4)^S-.2W+&;;LX+YD<9%>,_%-N
MZP>]N7CGTOR69DRA_I1?0
MRO3AZC#66G3AT@OKMKN!=9IF#7J!Z46S&CW)NLRT#AW)]&):A,9!(.;@[DQ*/]!P7FP
M?4]"QQUE!F4_J(>W,IX%0`Y/0UV0M^UI`-OP/-3%MAJ>!Q`.3T1=A*O@B0#?
M(!H8ZC[I*CDU26%_4BL]-3!E/*BD?"9M?9,]\QB;_49;>2X5[2#X$VPXVD
M$M#*.)(ZC+4ACB.5L&[;==1IFHUP%:E$LQK.HBXS;89S2"6F57`/=8]H,`QR
M/D&.@:DJ2LV%[7L5.N;A_!!P>!F,]3(`"7,]DJ`
M]V)S/8<2S33=4,[4GV\[#3;V1TZ7QDMYX+?)!^F5#36
MN2[(K#^CY9LF9=O9^RK)^!LD"!Z+)FJ*Y\ME&^M>KRNWP>R#Z%H;7Q/Q1@=QNF@?!JMFG@:**P5
M15X'A/UX2FXHW[(%<7M!_3N.UL5=>K),GGXM87^8+^3WP79%[4\('Z8D-WUE
MM3S;[L".Z9RR.65\;35>3]=3WR=PO)[?:$86WV+V@Q17938R44C;53\%Y00#
MDS!Q0T.Q[;T;7Y`YS9/ZW2TMJ&DY'5A!OU%63.().8N'/\C(Z'G6"KT.S+,B
MVX8P8:_/WNNXX7J&Z!)EA3DAIN/H^N,?RV3Y"DE2ZOQC*^"
M?U-VGL9YOE,!^Y$,IQE-Z80+G[_]+0-UM"T-/'\'Z[C9%Y3/H`\DE3&G?)K,#130\D-??4_/IP1E8H6CGX?0"Y7>F%V1,
M&".C!RY'5I(^8R+75;S=XV).=A;`?IK*T@0&ZF0'EO([S\HZ_4G3_B)6_>?@'_VIB-IPN;L0V=V=YWN;J\KWPN?@@A,UC
M5BQN22'AECC>8'@KJZ
MJ$,R(SA4@D.]'!QM9%X"OKK@0YHHJ&N>.N2T`KVVT$,"+NAKC3YD"P.ZAJ#3
M"#-H^(Z&MA4$"*.J&4;E'RG/-Y<9#Q^"ID"N8>00(E4@1-HMYA`0524@VC7N
M$/X$8S4SAF`GJ&N!.H0V@5HSJ"&0"C7>#Z'L*<6H4Y7>,Q1)@3\+4&'\*F>3%`[?Z#!;,"7O*;VPKKEZ;
M]MQ&RN7U/-'3(/"5'U_]EYB-'A=SLM.ZX'OVS,<2MV0+.OPA+ZAHRNJDCA5I
M4)3EE3J;E6DV3^F"$"F0@=+XKJ=\Z/D7TMP3-J9LMC3H8U;5":2'/'[D"@/8
M\M3/C!+&+%^%:-9/4_KR__:NM;=Q7,G^%:%W]EN[6V]9@SL+^#F;BW2GD63V
M`OLE4"3:UK0L^E)2$N^OWR(E/Z).G-BR')(F&D@G>I2J>`Z+9*E8HG#0%*=K
ME"$"SNU7W-:7P4Q]B(O[?%(DO3!D<1>9('2Z'OWZ1LY`/HDB("V'L13"9!&`V%
MQM%%.@@6<1XD,@%I^98/_=:TNZ:H:^W^\GN0%V1[IKDYF?TH2#@+,A0=/Y!]
M[LO]+>Z(8UP0AN+_(H)WHEC^O$IE^G[I%HX"!--WXD@[(<7Q=D;0[NXXQD1:'%V;
M^RC[>W%\W.J._RQ2!(A5'7$6`X#?8SD1=$18F.PSTV<84IBEQ5`7W(TRYTE!
M9#.7&_2`TN=0WJ!%SF17BPQZQ=8`*2FND].3JMXFD
M@#J^*T!([UV#Y7,LZ],=MNJ0$$#;U+G?2?42@)MW:.D#W29UG["-H/(AI+M&
M5\@@S>K#($=33);/,62Y!H=LM!8*2A%J=#6&\B@ENH2"583J5XUA/4[Q*Y%P
M%:*J3V-U5)V-@Q3Y;Q1-:P]"XHW!_-&E4-1[#F8/:HVB^+.?MSAG2UGCY'N=]6*IA7J
M#->\Z675M1N-I:>26N$H0AV34&K%HWAT'!ZI%9!BT]'8I%9$BDO-N,0[>Q1F
M%69&US>>7-UP?/Z31E=EQOY$>$J"Q8PF?6[M;[DLGN!>7)"I=`#1&C$>]YWJ
M+8"J$GX%.&+)7HCK7=L7)*/^6_`W)K2*)DL3NJ=5%NM)MV>;05_!*$(&_=XP
MGE/&?(FC$!GS>^,H2)Y!!GP%GP@)FWO#
M=PX)FCJL%NBBP=,-5NKL[KW9WU[Z]<8/F<2]-"YHHNJ3:`[4P3+;*
M/\Z`7?S[B@\JKJ@(=B2"<1\!^:"JCXI@1R&8*D>IJ-42M52=3,6MMKBE"G@J
M8K5"+%595)&K/7*IDJ>*Q:QR3+#\?
M.
M/P84S&0=T8%:7=9+$E8P9'56'K1LWW>"1,5.%,JON_B^`JRB!ME$'17$4=Y(TZ*':K*(3L40C%<165
MD#LJH1BN.*V8=`"3:`*T*V%CC_PQV4^H@_GS&BQHPW\,9J'6,/Y\5DQ6/%F
M;]Y(E/_`H1_\^$C"F0?*),I^X(_>W$06%,E5I*$MDG]TI$%Q6T4>VN(V'Y$'
MQ7`5B6B+X3Q$(A2_%:,5CP[CT?DR1R2H=-MW?+G34VYFF.2WB,POT@>8,=$G
MG7-82?(HZ4Y"RQ%&XHG0W`22SIC6D@2.>*+U1X>.SIK-4H2*>&(S'\&B
MJ(-BMXI"R!Z%4!Q740FYHQ**X8K3BDGO9U+K;.')9GWU)3+#[IHZ]!?#-;A?
MK%XM*#@67V19@4A6SI;+G\]Y^Z,@L%#,4#0(DJ2\N76VZJ=#SC"[
M]#-)OF]S_VG-KH[7ON=I
M'[VR^]W0;UF=YIMRIT?*-@SNX]7O0&J`R0(3&,SI9[^E!$SOV@Z=`OJZ[O,.
M6.\Q(-'FX^OK[C1?)'B)T$V.PY\R0>/ZE@G0Z+;)_9A%^U$Y&4X2_$@GZO2[
MZM0&A9`"+O$*X_7;N*
MJ,X7.$7/OS%\C>CGO%$T"D@*"YL,("OF14)7.T,TH?(!]:V#938X2")H1I]'
M`P$AGJ-+G&7?47XUN0V>Y(,;QC[^9YEOP/WL-6G*7"M`EQ01P-Z+(O:MW"#Y
M$<3113H(%G$>)#(!:$J"Q2P.@V3+JUX63W`O+DC[G[4]-4".9=H>]['%MP"JAC&8
MG!#)9O^Z68+D&-S[N35(JZ^VWY3"MN8?N^XWD`E*V[W(>)5_CT0E@H
M9_%+GXA@IPB*1M0"F6:(/+WF;=MFW5>!UW9IJ_NG@U`%7C\\\'IZN%7@56P@
M.1IN6K<9N&I:!E:[
M^=T25,9MP9G2E%7HF2@-8=[77WX/YNAJ\B,!9PV/F6ROOW"."4Z"];GCIR:^
MJ$]>$-!H3XE@\]P/)MN^P!W`]@NQ=$-S]ASGE\
MUHSC-,X1#>=2L@;IE+[3*A/=^LMOP=^8;*7O,$5N43A+<8*GRSY-:ZS?=8)4
M7,HFZZ.H9#@"9/3P3Z753\N/W$LJ\O_+BYAB#,HLAP67N0:)6Q,RV;Q
M0GH.Z6[7Y3Y35R`.5?NB8'9V'4]G$@]>(KW@_!#^O>;DES\>]6_X8VIP-4;A&1O=H_'052[1]S_6<>BS1L+TN__#T3$?2%^O7DUZA-`"2YOL:]8"?Q)P.E[\FR(HU+BEVB:9!\"W)8RJV),D=!!B97.TTV%_SCZ^I,*9$*
MJ8F+,VR;0-"_;H:_B*O._0[GWB$IFP4$9;\(*0^_XWZ66+=\V:;RW'[FW$%C
MWM64BF#-$J$-)O2^[\48QG[3G]I3`C]_!__WW$_3*[]@,OUJZKKUE9[^2B_\5%V?PS`(`\D3>*D(
M16MM2OD)#JO+9@1-_OCT'W%TY_A=#X:6OM_U[:[?&;NVW;%-T^[TQ]U>QQD-
MW:[CC;R1,Z!9.#0;I1*1!/P;B"B536BI)DP^?3VVLF9S9MV+&_8\WO.2.\YXQ)#XS5E#Q#1LK)FVJ:3=4
MTVZH9M=T7)@`]SO#KCWLV$[?A1[1'W1TI;I]:$S&)1DKVIZ@(C6E76:
M*^N<3%FWN;+N*93=[:X.$-&ZLJ\Z@0-$M*ZLU5Q9JZFRSFC4'PV\SG`(*V?;
M,XV.#V!(=NA,\[!P(7..H+IYICZ;-VY,U_M\0-2K`]4A,EI5
MMWS6JSWK("&M*FRR9W6;*5P3TJ;"[%&&UTC?FHQ6U778LUYW#H.197H#7>_J=\:.!=#>`EI6]-5&W5O`3D57
M[XF?/VQU],XS'5=W-D:_YQWRZN;GSR?_NMV
MAC*D!7-6%D8C:`'7HC37\AG2XODB"',-3[04Y32)1HO67Z/0`K:320O2:/MH
M$@?W<0H[6&W
MVA[KSS)T$K`NT8"/\4,,L**GJCE65A,4XC0$[E$^572NR`P-D2%@`X@!'L8I
MM$B0`U6A>>,=D+Z%YXC[7ZI_6:[QHI=
M1VD8M]6&N483FKQ'/8:&@-,A\T+4=(HV;0;O/[6HH!XG3@%\:`7:'38.A5Y"
M_0A0Y2'&148=59;'12+VQXHD
M],)[E*()T*SD4H(?$7A9IN:O3784%GFGZ5[WE/CI-*.-=11B^NW.SM:533KWS.IXO9-\-0&KY@61]IOA>>MY`6T"..!O#KPPI:`7
MT6SWSP!`MBB[;;+\7$WXM#`@9+D93NEANO/OD;8A('6/X,\D^@P3/*H:W`:S
M,3I]>8PSZF_)3V!S],Y&[I%0HXZ&_/')^+*.M`4D?*-9JRN^3J`K=>K-.R%X
MWC"S$>^8\)3H@0:OS>MY,LJ4T2A+)*,.R:A\P2A+2*-,D8S:.TGS!8NZ(EID
MBV/1(7F?+QCE"VJ4(Z-1KF1&O>W,135JI^L3U2A+(*/V375]P2)//(O>F,0*
M:-$;,UB^+-H[U_8%BQSQ+'ICIN?R9=%!R;LOF&4*:=:S'%])K*IG`DMB5CU?
M6`ZSZFG%DEA53SZ6Q*Q:CK(D5M52F26QJI;Q+(=5]<1H::QZEC\MB56U-&M)
MK*IE8TMB53UG6Q*SZIG=DIA52P"7Q*I:GK@D5M6SR>4PJYYT+H=5]=QT.:RJ
MI[#+854]TUT.J^H)\7)85AE_^
M'U!+`P04````"`"C@?I`#$PZ\UHD```N+P(`%0``L``00E#@``!#D!``#M/5USX[B1[ZG*
M?]`Y+W=5\7@\LY]3NTG)7S.NLD=>69/D[B4%DY",'0I40%*V]]&B1%4B)(
M4`0%P+L/R8YMHK\`-+H;W8V?_OZ\#$9KS"(2TI^/3M^\/1IAZH4^H8N?C[[<
M'X_OSZ^OC_[^MS__Z:?_.CX>75Y\'$]'$QH0BD?7Q[EH]!C'JP\G
M)T]/3V^POT#L.!3`WWCA\F1T?)PC_D=*XH?1=V].OW_S7>DOTS"A_H>1C]^=
M^O/YZ?';M_/Y\3?S[]\=__`]>G?\#I]^^_8]_N8M_TUIU#G#*7$^)_O#Z-W;
MTW?';[\_?O?M[-W[#]]\_^'=#_]7_CI(Q'_^W]#__X[;?'?,1I11Q_
M'5U3[\UH'`2C*7P:C:8XPFR-_3<9I""3PXC+G$8_'Y58?WY@P9N0+4XX[/WN>?GY[\Z_;FWGO$2W1,:!0CZE4&`K"ZH:>?'8[\H[\!PI]8&.`I
MGH\$#1_BEQ7^^2@BRU6`C[+?/3(\__EH&[M]^]?POC_W(1>LD2TSC_
M+Z+^)8U)_')-YR%;"NJ/1@#_R_2ZPL:2>"R,PGDLUE>I)7]JG
M?.2_[V.^Z@#'9,X73;C$XR#&C'(4:]R=\$9HV@F^(I0O,8*"NS`B()/S`$41
MF1/L]R*]">XAF;A##.^Q>CH`CQ]Q3#P4Z&?K'$6/5T'X%%U3GS#LQ;WXV(6F
MAV"N$LAQ"G-[02(O"*.$X;'G\6,JYJ?J71@0C^!H[/MB;:"@G]+JC$(G5P%?'7#>7(7L
M(DP>XGD29&1$O5AI@JN1_C.^$#V^`BY(D,38OT2,+8QQ%(3^^^;:]P(RLA1W5B[T]L&GD]0OEODX`D@6A
MYC:)IIEK!S[(K.D_/EMA:^3C`C_$!;Y;%">,(^RWQJ0PM=*]6:#:Y=\*6R,?
M5XBP?Z`@X0IF7N"]YLXS2WKOB';@&CFIZ,H-YD_87W`Q4G^*`U`LXF?_FEO!
MO3CKCFP83C-$LS!W4%(2-+$F@WY07JI^XJ",:79)2X=Z2"]P1!:T>K:5*.IE
M,K1#U^GI/&,=WW(N`H%K?1H)+Z+ZB\P6LLI\DC`SD0U7PU7$
M@CP$V9'0+T@H@:ESSR#&7L"Q74+`;C+_&(;^$PEZF3%2F#JML@RF]M73#%BG
M7T,HB?$--X.T+IHFL(>A7ILYK(Q#:]2BBBC?@_VB%1*80]*M/^2B@D!G=#F*
MR1+\A:LD!F6X#%E,?A-HLJCIQD?2N7_ZH-4<=1H@;",#JI'RFY`N8LR6@*P/
ML14X&NDKHFV3N2Y:I3#U6H5K`FDU5V%V>3!#S_UL!Q-_(0Q+>$!3P!N";GCBGW,4`!7U@GW9EZF7"UPX4#1C"\4(T:Q/\5K3!-M%]';8`]#O3;_
M0!F'UOO9"IZSEWN\Z!M;DL+42+?(.0#39,9-$TU*60I3[SI:DNRFE_H?$\00
MC?$`2KD;(IV>M/`S;KFONTR64XAP!R5:OE!^IG\.J0=Q\"!`W-F8K"!]FVN>
M&XQZWLOTQJUUID4^'#=RADBX4X"N/$DA
MZ^0!8%?3+W5/BBH*W3,SQ:N$>8]]=\\.+*T>R)KXF/K1!?8"U#,`M0M,]\E2
MDY%;)!EL3*E+[L5X_6S./;`9Y56;L=,7M=[\Z&29")SZ$K^[@=<99^2?AR\X
M549+OGB-GT^?N+^W$>P^OIF@G1$IGN&83&-O9CK_/BE]]15@.D^AW?6
MA=@':9*(#@94<0RE32;I.M!D^K6!UKV.4A27SYAYA.]572M*`G:`.;C+##,_
M-9IUR'X;I$Z9ITY_2?>#'XK#!4.K1^)=H!CI-\#WQ:F?[RSX`25>N8^9'@J0
M'ZB!QV;X.ODA"TKFW.8"G%GZ&\?5-Y^W":S6+$(AIJ((\NSE%OT:LF)1C!EW
M_?LE!:JA&):KDCSO6.@G7@SF&&9KXO'S>8XAKTXWFVHX-=_%BOR)]+HD+0P#
M2Z0FT9"3LKE7*1.=5YA#S('&G"I8=YL[)CA9$>UU*AR.2)V[/'F(\'\23M/E
M>I`2%S4$&CGZ)4$LQBPH5]!_H8A/1=PO^M`,^%`XNC/;&Z,=C.>_.+P`-ICM$,0,0OSUDH:)"_PXRN]T06R4&_:M@'_1#BP3*
MX.!_.&$#JY9>=-@L)/V+20,U0PML$\,O2!A&XS0C,LJF_HE703K=B&7[QIH5]V>S[X%FW%9I[A(3:N(LZ#!+I+E4.'B/*WH+.`Y8$B
M^DI(!P]:2\JL!I[Y+F@M$L$`\?K.R(<6QPU>H.`6Q3'X>]2O%&H-LA;4$`Y^
M0D"
M!$&SA/*LWB4M2AAJQI7QVB2$859"1^R#J\$\.7T%;:;H8FC]KX#.`I8'T/G*
M2`=G?RNO=YAYEB(9FKU-=FPI>WN3)CL(KXH8[6!,[_2W@%[OJVPI#2=;1`Q,6>.S:P(WQ\XE5MLH
M(YQD]V'7RQ4B#!9M6@-7ST#]QR;H+NKIQ,M3PJ].^&&;%=R%--IIVG=+:,B$
M?N"[$4>0'E"%DCIHMSA^#/W**SBUPC@D!>8D#"T>TN69F:Z-TMC]V@3EGW%<
M+N>LI;?ZC1$J^8E1K0YMUA[R[TU07ULX6TNWO`3VL!3#H[N(>8^0VP&O&X0B
M+ZA9YLUC3'!QCP)XL$4_LH(I5@41FXRM$7[PB9A-PS8T%^RV.P59]A3C[XB1*EJFE>$RXR9:/GW-5W&!QY&A#F?DT"IF/F7@U
MFV,[&CUA>/=9_,Q_6C$B3H&?C]X=C9*(DQFNTFI+^_ELV40%W^]?%]]-B[E@
M^IO7Q72KE5MP_NTKXUQB%1R/"T[>O3H0U3ES![FF9W6.[^6WP.BJG];:17.R/4W;68+AT$U?.WPLN^JZ8")SF3\O?H1>(:9\G##IN2-P7R<(B!;@5R$#75X4=K=0WCK.R,4&BL!?WJYX0X:KF'*U(#!V>)#=5ZA#,7-=$L^MH!N>.R@"^FE[TU2OVF)5TKQ;K4N%`9X464K&9&'/;A&-P()4?M/3,LAD2D%+$H&A2^VL2X13&IEL3=]X^,40@F
MVTZ.>SO9];W,0C@%;AU1Z(EG.B)G-NH&\Q,QP>(VDVJJ=OTWEKXGJC&B(MWVAL
MZ5PG[XKEW#5O.R=OR>S^EHET'Q)ZF127RO/U?"'D^E[K3RJ!JJ=S.5KY;[.
M:97D@]C-:??[Q6WUIG#GZF1>4#_)*-RM.YF]7A,UK1BB-1&	_O')K]-CXE
MX9:X=!3[5YVQ-$PH!EJL@?(JNJ4\8]N)N]4>2V^WR
M&R-\-D.!1OR2GPY\(=PES'M$$8Z@
M<0K]S?]KX2[3B!,YDUW:Q/4-DI+#@FW
M/?B.)>E9L(0FC+_E?3C%BJ_;0JUCC.0WS^=K7*(7-.M^).$A?9Q=G%37.]W9J@T
MU`Z>SL,`G`2&@D\X\+]P.[?L5'.[EV]A92Z5@-G!]U;\1)G%[7%VVJMPU,=;Q%UQ?;;/I.V,MI*SO:>N'H2A%J9@
MG-^Q.P#XH\6NM,(%O:1/
MOH=LBE=9$&PR+P6F):0K##3)SV1^06!94#]2YT4RR"0?LS`+4K87!38.L8('
M:5V'*D=R`(:JPSR,?=$T#^[F;U',?0-H1G8;,CQ[1'3&T>';D,:/TDGK!,,T
ME]=1E/##44U!M(XSS4TJ:S@@[AA>96M-Q/R"@.L">1JH`L?[PS8ME9)B%Q:?
MND'5%8II3J>;B9G,-[G!U4U8VGP3=H.E!WEOL*9E`8NPYY)O!6&FI;T7+JBX
M]^.GNU*0I'&(&1Z*!;7O.=,-AO'D_:Y7@Y4FP!T&P&]=RB-OJ^`NMVZ%B)R*#NW>WAIJX*]IYGA9.*C/J$IG'-.YD+VDU!'
M2T"2.6EY!W-]BTCBKCI9U-93*@IA/DG]V^M>+2WA0DF1W*N62=TOI.IVFDHP6)+I[N:N:Y&/OJ1G2-2$4![9MM5XCJ%1B6#?D)6R&D^L?9A_1:':EF3DSW&>BR6CM4`DO9DKUJS]JP#D?0T>]4B:RU$
M42N;D?3K_9U)IE*VX>;SJ;I%4EW.I&=;`&THBH'W2>`PV&1&6
M?:5_3.XWUW2`,?$`%G(2/V6*SO\U22,,/434`YE-;%=YKRT4WI%E
M#$UL^$3I*S$E+3(.8=*B4?N:9.0V?LGKY#,V&L0]WI^]!FT
M?>A8>8B#V172-'->S_`+F+L3;7YFA-)=4NE%SFH2MFQ9^
M2*EO'VDD:LOU4GY34%4^D@BN]'MCNLHQBV
MU(?$J++][KX;6G)/`
MUW263_?D[:MN6>2Z46*\LQ9%
M(91EX5)QC66G<>=CR;*3-BMW@ZJ<2*:M54!,LNXZ[*J6?^8Q/PX#C7\R>
MKAQ!2`=YFV62$C^%P3$JZ5D\C:`=D`C3?D^?9(PN3Q>.`RT,CEU(K)28D-L*!D".R33X\`U=9P2YT\!?-7S?_;VZ)\97&$@03:2:&]LD#$
M\")MM3B<3%HQ)=$VZ]_)K)>NYX1&K5DZ@9W,D#F$Z%3,EW[)-;\/XL@=0TC#1-8R8';4)M6OH^I/\703-@7
M/_O7?`$;B8J?BQ>-KFGU(BO-JZC0+!(52\TX:UVA?:&9\/J::"TFY7IKYO9@
MO`&8V22ZK3599&]>T[PLK36Y3@6&)6E"'=@MGP)[[Q#74\P&D%?3ONI9#F&%
MGL]T^BR$5F=70?B4BLZBDTA"X1V")FJ/.":K.P)G8+)R+(B=.-DPQ:F'JA3$*4EX4J)^%
M9RB`5A[WCUC4KT105&Z#*9BJG&CS@A'8J1M%7'!V@]&_M[)2KK,N]90T5
MD`+Z%RY0$CUR%1Z&OKRU2.W'I@I?!2F?L2QUH_*)41JGZ.D6GA/AR[55M)5O
MC5+]SY!]O:;B]1AI_T3)QT;MFKJEL5VE6C,M3EY-*/.Z-9E.7AHH,[NER_K%
M\^TX)O)7Y2H/RIFX0?6\9)D$J;U6/`##_QU@L1BH7WX,IN$QO/H;5EW@36C.
MLX2(KGY@+EXO5RQSFJ34CZNTZWAI-G5G=F6
ML\%)>VR/*6_0/$YF7:B+H/TH=C)3HOL::#C/G4QX4-'B6\^Q-DK,R<2%KD+0
MYT9(,2::
MX8N.%)-Y_H*L:;IR.JR<3(CAQ/B&K&7S>6`O5$Y.29>5=9;,/>T.R(C7+2>S
MT?EN&V89+W)/JV60T=-6C:&*T=4ZG4[Z85H%(=W'SN8K-#!K51K`[DRD![EU
M=-EX4%Y&,5G"HKU*A%=56KI9I\%-)HCM!^DNZ9M,6\CNWN-$;8-HV7%40R^4
M"93K`[0(80>H_7+0N@@8(YT^A/KXY+,NX
M_L/L5E/U?QCE3?O#R4N3@T@GU9M.WJ@<0C[I>>KD?2
M;L1E-\MD5RJEQ:OT_3F1W$BH1U8H4''W]P9G.>_75-'5[P?3>BGHF_X2+#>X
MEKOY^\%R@NLF)W]/8&[P+77Q]P)EU.QJ.YXJ.6#]5**3+O%@\G';%QY6+`X[
MP8,*QF'O=UBYN.OV#B275^+MWK%P32*.X"K,WC.>H6:21`$G
M(XLKG&&*YT3FSK6-,M)4):,I??*O*R>R408YV:R,+HS(!AGDXSY&,>16WW!,
M75=8RU@37%W@.68BJ7.S<3F!_+_G_)=$VI^H=9B9TNHN2ZQU;9DX:=0V2Z5+
M3)O*D@(+E-]!15WM?M)C
MKSMI@[DG\(UJZ6?E&4PO*J70%WYZGR<2?&NT&V52+9]JQ\
MD:_XF/#MM[](6D%K:?6C0DE>]5D\E;[%5A](MLZL>"E^[/^:--LJ>X&RE6?^
MRWL+FU*U,G0UW[":Z7=G8R%#;\
M`I/I-RSJ*;I_1`R?H0@>)2P^*#]^
MV,:U#E26RJS3[,N&6\K;%$>8K<6MXMCS6(*"J#"JL\=%]N9>Z@[$\&R4J%3<=#LC+.,`=!S#
MCWPW;/R.[DS5`;&'SR_4)U',R`--21+V'(+:C-TY&RK4N!"6OQ\D(>0\QR4.8CE9[[2V)'3WA4(]YQ%$\'VF.+F&+Y-7HAF_NA:U(N$"@MW68.:
MBT1VT:@ZVLAIH$;;>?,)T0V(Q7Q>4^@I!+V%9#>I>P"RF]\P87KXW0"RFE_1
M?TT+PR5(=G/\%.KA-X=C,;'#Y
ME/>/FU;R(4144JI.7G8>0DBED];)F\Z#R*BPOIR\`QU>1N43SM7.EVG]V`)3
MCUCJI(JTGF@R!\\TI/=QZ'V=)'$4(PHW$PX#/?I1V!K%7B%.\2ICW
M6'CN)KN$K(G/`447V`N0!0]YRM(PQ]3/'L)4DHSP0\)E9"W,EXC(H(T
M5R&[1P&^QU[6N;IN^&]S!BB$?*R;$KQ4W94ZU@W/9#9)K<>4K"6
MIRGHWR@BLA$&VIW9#JA)8UQ*&DJ([5)
MCI`APQ7J;]C_B`@%!BMLC!F)N*J]X*N#+N[X[T-_3]GU0&2GO#YQ8Y336G!3
M.JD'D-J>Z,S?5FHTHW;N-@>9(#753TTX6C@PAMCY>=K\:!)>B:%;E08\]+UDF
M@DYI6;:9U.,VLC0%`(?`9,)+4N3C//V(_VY3F+K&%`3WR^4J"%]P>BG.;;Y[M(;^/GO
M<8)JF\6(E3H+8Q380F=E2TW2*;#*$(GZ$
M@Q44Q2S):ZJ+GFTE1N&M;*`1TL3Y/(8!'/R;YYC`Q$?4N$5ZGSQ$^#\)Y^-R
M+9BQTQXH&TB&"`,"=107%-N[)QJ)M5.^\'8[
M!>_`@=7=1*N=TN7NY@JS^`5N5,#I!&6Y@K\X(.TNM-LI_5O,%A#G\#CED?`Q
M01=R\E=A]J,+2F4_+NR6?P.I=LKVFL:(+@@G+7OSP7X9*Y!LIZPO
M\(,+*EQ"IITRW:27."#8)EKME&[>\CX+CSL@XW:*[93T=A-8!T2M0+*=LCZ7
M])EU0.8=2+=3]C=X@8);%,=@G%*_TD+)6JGO-BJ";QU8+LJ$V[E8:A*"X6-K
MQ=U&K[U2+CT)F.?^9?FZ:5JGS1)7I=U.Z6]R`U?P5"==N*!5VDFV5-9;2036
M2GAS5U_*X]A8__#]02P,$%`````@`HX'Z0).CD;XB
M@```?Z0*`!4`'`!M?OO_QNP\H]I,@C-=__^[;P\?%P_GU]7?_ZW_^M__K
M/_[OCQ\_7%Y\6=Q_6,91&*,/UQ]O49Z&;Q_^RT<12KTX^7*!5
M&(/^WU_KB#\VXGCCS^N5A__L/KSYX]_^;/W^>-G].F//_Z$_O`C_DUKUGF*O!*X`$/]MP^?
M?_ST^>./?_[X^8^/GW_ZVQ_^_+?/?_D_[=')\RX-UYO\P__C_[]X\(]__(AG
M?.I0XW]\N([][S\LHNC#/1F:?;A'&4I?4/!]O5)4T^$#)GF:1.@>K3Z4$/\MWSVCOW^7A=OG
M"'U7_VZ3HM7?O]MFJYPLCQ'25[
M+%?XBB5;M(ARE,9XBQ>D#CAW->T`7X4QOI"A%]TE6?D:G$=>EH6K$`6#0.>M
M.R42=UZ*>MP>A<7S#I$43_FJ
MB&HPLD&H\-;5"/\9OH@^O@$7853D*+CTTAB3+[M#:7E1AJ`@6EHC%N6"V>6;
M'Q4!"J[29'ON17X1E<>]7%W>/0Q!1&)UC;@+P%>7WR$_6@["KYX6":]2;(,9
MUT$?O-P&&C%JEFVHB,F'[SB^'(LL2S#[QI_M!4K#EU*.&H1>C]TTXOHMQII1
M1"A+B+J7232=G'CQ44Y-/_L4KJT1CPOTE#?[W7IYD>(-A]TQYII:X3Y<4.WT
M%ZZM$8\K+TQ_]J("/S"K9M]KK&JGQ>`O0KRX1DPZ;^5AYW^@8(W)&`?W*"(/
M2_GOX!I+P8,P4]]L'$SKC1Z3O8)2@:`)-=;JD^+2U1-'14RS2MIBZDE\@;)P
M'7=Y6PNB02*#>'6=F@Y>,">7_";TGL*H?%EOD4?^%"SRP[>PC+$84Z0I9NM$
M`1BF!/7<4B/61":+?;QW+>P_)KD757!)0/*8G'D1T>(>-@CE=UB+($:UH7QB
M-)ATROP;+\9?UG5\L`2UGO\&RAOT@J*?1KD\FB`820\BUY$A0
MWZ7),TI+DQ&Q'3T36NH"G[JV1CQHZVL7X>0WT6G#*;(P1EF&J?D4QN7R^H53
M^4VTV@PQ$?%G>DUOP*:I9PC`C(6--G=^,EZ8[HMANB@^M5HON1OMO_E-K75]*`CZ?Q^AFRKV>HT
M@MF&M:A&R&^2>)VC=$LV&P)L9QV-\#76MN5*%ZS,-?5*A2\A"$XM8^1!,@7D*LN*(`
MI5Y$7-8%UF9V]_A9P.+T"`([V?OM,-;GZ$8KFWZ@?0>6OVSG7W.=@]H/=2VQ%Q3(]QES`$1
M31ZQ:*+I46:NJ?<>;(Y37>+_NBQR$AQ..,;P""_FRCIQ(&MWPR]U'XKL%KI/YAX]%ZF_
M&?KUG*RE50-Y"0,4!]D%\B-OH`'J=#'=G(42D=L$&1Q$J4NLQ?C#9,X>NX'B
MJDW8&;JUWOCH8EN4>^H+_%9;7J>=$0]/=JAZC#`U'[R7,N8T\D;P3:EOIOM%
M/R,Y8(2DF)YMJR;E'NG0$7OOJ3<>I-@^EPK:MXSL5=MX,>4;;_IJ\8KUN2]$
MZAL:":*XF>X3)I=IX>?XSJZ48QE1SB#NUHP"RJA60?MCY?42?-*Z6^]_40/
M10^-Y>!!7F`Y(G5]Y\92AWPH,T^7+*"DNG"<6/
MZ"T_B[#`I8[LX!W-0'S_B^D):E-1\_Z.4$@@>2"U-ZGT>Y'WVV-Y`D^N]*?R#&)@\UG1?#1A(I27)"97C"@(W\
MM`R"PV0BZ;],&J`9FV`'&WX#PC@O#G\C4#3U'[S,=F.CO$]*W(W\'G#W@412
M_[%*[#8VPOLT1^+UR=NYCB.?LM*^)A%!_RWHL?O8!+E%Z1JE52)6500G*\M_
M9])P1F$D;_G1D$Q]A$VJ>(COR$\+8!1%'_88LW&Y\M=C/Y1AGE.]+TXZ"1JC7(7Y#8[
M5$D)8YVX]+XF$6&OL0)CL*KI([FH&X_INMM&]-!"_U9>G`Z!FW[T9'FL7]
ML22/1VJ&U@NW,3O,"N/\AR#BK#\)/X8H)571+D:=*?3
MIX$UV7IAW!O4:O:8D)8[?-RB[1-*%(O6+)_3Q0!DU2&D+U/`&
MA[::-QBR#LSX4T-Q0%(EJM^2I>33"V3:&98@8"#P!]W9.2+)+TE*)5>)9(;\
M[]?)RP\!"G\@;QKYX6/5;QO^-?_6N!MP[(]E>1M]XO%WE/*/K[=Z=_
M_V%T>,Z+E*137&%F[47_1%YZ&0<7^.&C@,8E8/64"84TCX8[O"IH+VH90%73:M)!D0,D:/Q6\=\53%/I7
M4>+E3!C;8Z:"ZQZM,66(!^&KMV63[VC85-`]>F_7`?X>RSPU(D!]+2JIE0$F
M:_Q4\/Z<1`66_-+JHV`_,\?CIH+O%Q1%_SM.7N,'Y&5)C(+K+"LX]&2-5X/W
M5!$GO_G7#7XSLOPN]7R2:HN56XJ@P!DX/LU*+U-%B,5;2#O-XQ']85IYV5.I
MR139Q[7G/5>`H2C/]K\YAK#^==..&JLSJ*Y1T0&4,Q`4WM*@(8*U&C3^63^F
M'I%+'G;;IR2BG'3W[P=X&F5RD78APYKH?IE:*>UA!J@76*7)EG[A]ELF%#'A
M0Y(&*/W[=Y^^_Q'_WW(___V[S]]]*#(,3_)7]+Y,XQ_K\952N\/?OLGV1W^G)
M+D6+HOPUR?Y@!,3F&J3^;#%2=$VFP>TOUN-V8A]JD/NKQ29:=K6*;4;6__,,5#LB09MYEH:@H1VEL`.S2[V3W7308-J+92:"F'K/$\R
M3-Y#RR\&\.TQ4%"2-(JZ0AC+?GPRS`18%T]$Y_./G6K"X1"P'Y?F$\#.'&X"
M[&=>%OJ2@%=C38#Z(HR*G/F,L$;/Q?O?GXY?4$S:DN(/:1%L,3UKH2?Q-E)
M-]W;,"[EC>L8\W4L-N-SZ*Y294[=HGR3!*3.4U8E%3*(,24$JZUGG
ME'"I<3K:>:4K^GQ%>;OW`Y6&W3$@4&)YN-M*@O^BL<=#0$_MLD&%F]TO8UJ(
M[U&&L-:U(86@L,`;)641,3[-^7-`(AB\"&6UP([O,"N$X6@4"*2H[*)P*.=:
M]CKF$9LSP<6VF!;;TA_.7U"XWI"&\R_X75BCRA*S7-4"KRC$M^\J!F%Z`IQ`
M%U->QF1<>;J;VAIP5D>1':`=1W1DA;$A=D8%/0%3M2&J1@5='D^S(A
MWFU#V(T2P@SUW(;H&]4GJ6MRM2$41V3`;&/(,!@>T/QL;F#'$#0/%L8&4:C@
M#A=,[(*)>00YUF+M#Y@3O\3VQ\UQC3_VA\U)6.;L#YL#,>K;'XDGM-3;'X_'
M,)_;'XTGEJWL#\;K;W,"#\\S)00*XE#[F@C['/FQ%F1PP.*(9&';F6T(>-1!
M&+E@-]7(2+``PD/ALKNZMTO3V!LBE+#N9YO=>3OR2M6Y"0R+-V,PA`%_#\H]
M\E'X0J#!YJP0*W^"`>7P$EU-`@.3L&)
M=\:`0RE%U..Q(%"_>&%$OO"K)"7&FZ8OJX#>PGD@@;Q>1CQ6QXUG\W,O37>8
M>Y:I.@R,Y.9"877:2_=ADZ3Y(TJWXB@[A05@PJ_;O0B%G1N?<;:!D#X2C@##R`Q._2;P8*Z-2C+/'0B!I&W59_WL4814S:!T$_SJ*Y[E4CBMB"T`W
MY/2/6SFR8UD%DR`3.1@0'_X,DTI0-\UF4[0SQ"4-5$1I?;`,LK5'`$-(Q/*3
M-D1BL.G33,1%H!A+3P?&C-!$GZ(7T@9Y1C>1T%^^B%A>\7VZ)4,K#"&/HAV;;URY*FE*YU
M))H#`[5<8?7R")GQ]G&)6_-)W)*6.`V1,96E2ADY8&"W1BNN0\V@>!FJRSMT':=)E.`FF:Q:Q!T'3)3N;;9.$&)>7-+/-4XJQ4
M?2D=U8-C^[-!B_Y/MTM9X2)V%`'11R40-,0CY.N&DRM8.4R
M1@!&@'6#J16<6P)3B4#,!FDKF+7<169EL#7(6L&=%2P"QT'W#:96L&8I3-6#
MJ!LJ6,&C98TA_._8"I8L@2H7RY]L_5
M0]0U0NGL0QL*UV;8$R-T3=OR0&4[!@2O]ET%!-,H2E[Q'24A
M"Q=)\92OBNC4NRTHJ:"T!G":>U68:%'D&_QF_"[31.]DAA$8B!L2P&/D
M+"6:ZWV?O&QVZ)=25B`UFQA)N`L?OU:548F<=E)N
M4_XR10%^S.Z*U-]X&?X05DU>$/X>6O&_1S*GMF5![!C!OXLZU^`QP4PNB?VP
MC,IOOHG'A.""'WU283@XVWW+B%O[T#EBX>?A2^5@$-3`'&,K*-N/[^U+3Y_A
M4PW(H.X7>/1&>D"!_!!:K^5PDYQA*09>K4ND^+
M9FDI>M`6*-M"Y*)^^VB/J7`.2#FYU0KSH.7J\@T_Y/$:W>./>!G3KP:#X$I+
M&&7;@Z'XFX\P3_#>Z@M)&M/07\W:7]3F$*PC&+2FV52@\,G!5*"MJ>5=^()O
M%6'YR[B5[E@V'TWQ)Y"74CGF\06MFE*/!2"+"QZWH:0>"6,P3.'!+DN[CH^B
M9A4UCTU%&J#75#)S.DX@HMZD7_0-%P3>L?[7C$A'/W]5S,3/P/HH\
ME4;Q>)X9V.R3AMDO-W^.&5@<>$8=@R30"Q46,`2_TH!4AX[R6GU(334/)W$!
M5?GY!F'7),CU.;23V49BUOOHZ$LX?WY%-%+5@&*8DE=)6\!L_/J=)V\A@_"55X@5%C`;OW[G:9J%_:AQ+0N5UAB0(K/>KC0N
M7"7I/7JN'3S+56A*:T!C>9UE
M!0DNDGH@A/.@L:EH31C%78J>Z[M6>C&B"+\%[(I^$ACW7QN:*JV'O=2JY!4$
MU56@,;T_'`SI65P7+NQ^A*V/;YG>("8C'[PL-"W()1QXY85+0.!(8C3659`/
MYNY2AE;N%!@%B^.V*X9!3W;6!02HVQ)E/14IA+!]X9+I!Q)(("+"B
M7<5$Y.)+]#:TO%"/-N!?%UHLD`T%1773H1-Y8D-14=T$H`5UV%!@=!0ZG(9*
MV%!I=*RWX1#U:$-9L#&_"WK99:AZ8?`?!X,>4*KG^VN8T#]NY:@SW4"[M@TU
M>_732L*>:D-=7SV$430TVU`#6/^-8?A`;2@3K(D8$B$C-I0+UDL-5L")#=6$
M]5!B8*H;>$%BD-=$RMMN0Z-$/:11"5*VH9UB_R!6VALC$TAE0UO485315P+#
MAJ:K(]T@>G].@WNK::*#GO`O&YJRZ2>8.$;(AHYM>NC2-WO5AHYN>BBDDI]B
M0Z^W_OD+1U1I9P78T!E9#^+CN`=M:+>LAWXJ9F`;.C5K^YRDDZ;`6SF[.JYZ
MZR'VN4(VM+L>A#U7X89OB#TR]EP9I7%./_!7).`9*57I3IX
M#=[FJO=#\&8WZ?O#.V]_!5;OM;1W=_L;QL\*2W9;&\EU@+`]_M0%W:)X,T!JL5)9JY^G2'^HS-E^(SX]Y=-
MI$\";W\B&K1#&PK`3$N\X4J`#95BIK^00Q1T^#HR_';,2NI`QV-,YP;P3QKW
MB=:+KFOF/,,@()KJ8T-U&>DP%VJXJ,%U8!2.3:Q'V5#.10YA'7S0AMP>Z9;-
M;!>I#6DYA!G1#8H4U:6AR&.=1*%/C`V'K_0Z7B7I
MMOST8*(47U":EY8/02?RTX%:?)4+O*RW1FSW8G_^6H541
MW80KUCC6
M>PNWQ99+Q^X8$"CQ1R6$LC,&J",(O:[(V>X1[\V)-9&9:11&!"IN7*O,S-EA
M-"AN=P2W
M6;QZ:5#^AVYL^<2*8AEE+S"JG9B>3C%Y.L9D7R[I+@V/*AMB='S$[-`WXH9:
M]+B')(SQX>2%GHH.POD#B:K')\P_WDY&N3B?W0&
M!RA(<4>EGL2"A4DTX`0,C$M1/=*I.[?*V2F/#`TW1P=KX'!F,
M;`AI$F'4-=39$-K#P(CF(@(/6CD)+.RA`!V0D]%(9AAZV)-D/+>ER7'O`]$=
MR49C($%!!TT0VR,Y&1:O
M.&AEG]M1FT-YYC594I4>5EK<#5!$_`J8DKR3@U5@3H*XO@R3E:\N[_!@@)I)DO]
M[)L7^&Q7G?!YY&6"#5P
M9H951E"C'O[11#L.>;=G:%W2362&N`%N(0`@@2+G,#^H33^)="@.\!X18ZX6
M6_PR.:=@+"*QV3QXIIMD2-UP'2-JN-G:ZZRY=OI%D#"DC5P',O\HNJK#P?*,N-P#^7Q3=P2LRLK+$_+VB!-4H=!SE+ZM2\_
M%X/=O`Q4S6LW\*"Y#9ST;C*U2UWW%]9)6-%,_QDJ2U,=IY01QOI9'QI&1\B+I;]?'5Z
M:C"O+[@XP!31!8\%&[WYB\V]2=-F%_""K2JBI\]NMS055?P`=R]*R[N<=WH&
M@9,"['CO&7CB-K`*!J5I-$TZEJLR9KMR1.[+M`!U.B@AZ@#T%4./;Z%'$N5%
M0J7*"E"]'/CP\00XV=ES$>H&]$5@-CS==Y0]0UB;1F5S-2JM55:`P+#IC-MT
M&VY>5M(_[RY%.1,]Z>FPN%UCIE\W%Q,BTAX+$]V;HQ1#P&_/NOX.#.XN,DACMHQ%\EF)@7-M?._4_(5?X;K5].\H($]11MXB=,2N
M(,(#7[PP(E4(3WC<>/$CPGPB]=+=]?;9"].2DMR8#EVK
MPP:G4F\0YI%103(M:#ABG;`U]!\H"A8YJ2E3,=9#A_%[A!$F.1TEEME#L=UB
M]$6.`0,`,_`\Y$*`.5/G*9),9Z$RX%I2Y'.Y6S-CJY>9QZ*-[=A@:\?V&!3-)/00B,MD%VR1QJ!6,*Q/CF@0:P)WCE?5<=K/`\5FE:39*9/X%JYV4;S.O(_Y`>/R\83B*VYN=>FI)"G*2Z
M)C,X3FJNEJ)F9(_C?3H5@6$^3[T/*-V*77ZTD2#.-:S6[BHCR%41!_S/E#$8!NXT7WMK=.;YOZ)`
M\ID13`(+_%5X*=GC81U>QX_$D7'L;%>_&K2O=^AJ$)A_>VB8U6*-8M)/5.$8
MI:?#X%;:.(GV05JEYEA*CAZ*IR!\"8EE4(29U.1)R[6J:Y"'RJRRZMP,W7,#
M2*=LVSN8A#^9Y[O120"I:-K2&(>8';HQ*DC;IY,=H:4)>T
M0394,"],>]0+`4-!0`"M4>EP)4S:G!^:^&^D5[F'S-#4T?"]O!V@)\S0IQ
MP(&L<>7X\3LMK6)NE%`?'%D&!ANB=7J=*=V0;T/,3"]T>9X7\+B6D9"65_YM
MR+#K0P%)8[\-V77]'C6^]1$\KVZTQXWK[VO0!I+71OO>Y0QBC;PZ+SF%Y9)L
M\/TT*WPY1OD&95?!6C!EZ5C-,;81)1..5*)Z3)OS[;$[;;
MM1_>$8$4[V9*FO&)!?@\P1]D7"1%1@?\TV>L0N6;;)D2&PE*%^MUBK_P'%76
MT4(72>+>,OYM=E&OCL']^QZ,=H+"[&F@968G2,YTD:"UA=#[=Y(^XEU*J_@3*<6'[^K+$;%#7MXF9=_*5%\9?J//(0?RG+L.8:?]F/=*/K4Q"CC[N0?,/U&L_P6Y9NDG2S$=.K2QL[%F3LO5U<3AD@]-9;_4WFZ@;C)
M573G3'6*DJZ*[G)WCYZ.R#O;&3H6=!"/\9B#JPH]*AF+OVSK*QE7C>#WR-UZ
M^;Z\@%'1<03*!K9AU7]Y:YD5$\B!],S+PNP^B:*R4'DY9+=XRO+4\[52A+N/
MR=0ZV._'(9)P>9-I\Q6_'37+R)M.F!GRQRE'Z
M3^2ECRC6?HOD]K",2KIN#W=I"VA"8'X(WQXW:5*L-R->'YF-;*27YHO$6=\2
MZCR^)C7T5^$+&O,Z"7>RDF(C7"C6!N;19T"'E*/I-ALDQ1D"YY&79>$J1,'9
MCD2)$)&W\**]%'Q!8D(DDQN4E@+`0R;M07H9HPW#DUN91M-\Y4+`>BM%-M2N
M,8JV2NS9Y`!BTZDK%*5-#C$VF;@B#=?D$&0CZ'/)8ID>-7(J:?V%N
M2)8)E)11@&P(ZS*,EBSCA`T!8@:1DF$KM"',#(Z*U.+H4'%HPGS'/CHT+?E1
M7H>=8T/1L]Y5\"8A3VX0Q&!;N_:=,XL6Y]3VX
M4V:``U!9D@:DYEK?A]FO4O>(,@46!Y97A#<2%N*OWE;VSK2&6@BSEF:E82D/
M5#!7/Q]#6_VV#4%2<9JJ(N\1P*+16AQB+<9W5Z3^QL/:`+62C&BT;F@>DD@.
MD-9`V)O'"_L_'F6SBUAG`G1
M1Q+K'Y,S=(_\@T)P@36`>$ULM_N*'`PL-2T.1)=7+PWV)R2LPD@;;+1[?-)2
MH'B=;Y:K1ZR/E5)1'>A%D!`_\B+4&]*-+S[T,I-K!0J;G
MPK"7,P'WZSA'*99S[\O\^A&OBX:-3*!7W87FM"TI6B3C,'VJ#@15>4R
MN3%X7USII@+XUM>JGRG;B$V_Q33JP-]EQ8]V.-)&?,+,6A,I)GA[6#QMRBGI2@V$]MR'1IR?&='N/#1DX`H2'FS9L2*.1%I;9D6\F
MA]2.>=8&A,7J.V!=CO2&)#:(@Z>A29WV\ATS2$^#GPTRBAQ^
M)P%4#9)`C%BZ[B$CBLG4EF("V>J
M@3C=A-Y3&)W&ABA/=ZE%PU.+*EJ2[&39#Y\V!Q:+)C7XQ'C`Q((V!P8+CA6:
MRT9D9KIT$2O310["?>N^TN2ULQV=GYWMZ@NQOR/A4&X]2*\38$3+>Y?/,W
M7KQ&4H?/GP.!Q2E%.3R&,=@,N+D2&7.XQ;`#:5!M'[#4I>=,T=B'!P8
M+9>8M)$@8>'$051Y2/)*2>.'B+.&ZPNZKE=O"8[L!%W^!)"F79LDS1]1NFW5
M;>%2E#,!-J)49)]KFWUY]B1P([Y=(V((I5P.HD-@)UN99Q+;4/`H!JV
M["?1AKA`.5QEGEN[8OSH!DFZ;XIG/+,K"%@ZC8.GXM@5NZ8EF\.*F#4Y3'ER
MO%TA:W+XLOTG=L6F26++\G/!1ZA-GJ)CAV@E92]7X$LM!PAXN)9$?A+'O-YA
M22-:+=]%TI,DG=D"DEV!GLKH4C\^\$A.Z5BK\:WZ,XBZFX9(2K%M%H3Q34LU
MEF,"/!;04'JQ[5`UQ?Y@@B&-9SCDNZ+X=\,<04]*NAV.JBT&0Y&OJYM.1?&"
MV)!-J8*D5"@&?([D^PQX)MD]&4GO0=DR[B9Z9XLXN$<1.;BZ#D`I2T($@I;&
MN.OX6YPB+R*M'O9)24,'!SWD^.$@PVDR7QFNF-@2#C4,6GMIJ0]A8
M?ZHH"G#P467OWB16F[\>DTY%'!`;F+.(.(N(LXA`6T1&PJO-`*JSNH[1:H5\
M,OZ.M#?&+WH<5%7WL$(9%?B9N\+/\.5^4(RR[!%E>5F22YQL/`4,LZ>R=&KW
ME+"X9&LMZK+M]?QO+J@17.N':E)1?1A(JU>C!JII./J+EZM%[.X)NR$HF&`$T^P*@
M0GZ#C1L\W#:]VO4]AZBL6@P_";G,H+1D+)"'5]51Q(9`N!-)I#^]0>]",E[!C]!YV
MQ;!&I77GHDN]LWX>LPB/>C?=!>83I&.NYT4595'Q7W-]**J82A7_M2+M3%OQ
M7RNJE>LJ_NLBZUR0D]EF1L.)IA09YK+LG;%VY`-04QSAX\3>I_VVKJ4=!YVV
M*1[Y4[#(FS+N\3WRBS3%)WCF92&(4;S><9(S@5MBA[$7D^-O<0")-GT*
M"YB'GZCS7]]5G#FTLHM(?KR,P:`MCGE\M\5L\8"O29QV>*_(PZ!W#UNI)-7W
M>?#ZH-0YV[5+['])D^*9!*@>Q!MR@%7D>L9Q7_9>#ACWID93B%(LQ6]V-^@%
M17*8\B:#XD4E-]>%+C5UAC@!-9L^@'8=/Q>8.9-K\XGOTN+,,`6#S\H8?#8,
M@Y^4,?C)!`QJ;E,*>J>/DMQ'(K7&N\`2ZDVH')-?DA>4Q@1`!VZGO"L6Y)B#U.4[&P(S&Z3&.UNO?17E%\5<FD=@L4:Q'Y(^7=(/B?1T&-Q*5PM1M>X2
MOZ3>,5&7)6H&X0VCT$35P`,>QV``E@B1[RI=&PDQ,I82[(#SL
M@/JG^?$W62M=0X-/LZ,!*[*HP=D""X\BSBI1>@T=S,T]&X&@H8($7J,A!J1DH4'>P($_.V[L4^/Y`37,H>;`CLWRHPS`21%R@(S\?)@$KRV]1ODF"Z_@%97G)DUB84,?"IOI4#TY5
MB5!8,TT)
M\CY`I1S:?3QS=AA!IZVT],J0#=$:8F6NC2W[>,&=EBZ2W$62NTAR
M&4(IV#_`8\F-H!?=HF)57-I8M&':&ZP*81N+.DRKEE5Q;F-11R3S6A4&-QI7
MXS@ZP(/D7*:/:311LH2Y-!^!NF=A&H_([BE*/S@QQ8%_4,I)&)I)8%W>A=BP
M*LQ!.;'P6168JX$`-.,M?N^XS#.2\;4F37,2UNM(G$JG72BO8S\J\&MQ'9>*855#7LY-K6LS@^GV
M+4Z>,I2^$"&V#!/N1B>>[GFF,AV2?%&)-1MA\=G2M_/G)]CE%&Z):DAXS
M1!(BHR!(S87'LU?2HRV..$'95V%#P9$1E6>25&$.TZ0AJ61X\[%`V2%^7'943IC_,`/E^`O7-/0K6EP0?IV$3D94=LN"U
MVOI>IP.>[WU3*;\4T#TG?B4%"3?5PS5->5R"-X-4UV`@S#
M\^B=-=F\/@S1(Q'#9)/V,$1+F03<7"S4MJ7XAS9K@@FB/_[(,$TP!G%`G.3/
MY9L)41K6]XLML0NBX`(]I\BO=$;\I`.X%[.2!\H_@+`1J1`HN4`Z,$=5;+7>
M>DBS&"Z"(*R`NXY72;H%ZYC5_MP8BD)GR%P,3^_$S&"I>NY46Z?:.M660KKN
M67&,/T]R'$:JJQB"Z>5JA7R2.7V!U;X:
MV.HOK/(WBHL8@J=(!.-.,02'K]X6'=\G>72HLPW!;)^U>9>&/EI$T;XP=FUM
M*`/SA_BG*IA?'N\>:YM-E;JQ0ZLH^05:(?R[X!Z]H)A91T7G#F93B,2E
MO891A,^X8,;6]%Y.2Q3*?G[9UX((JLM5^6UBHC\DT3&W49NK!=)+
MTBH^QV)%:3&)@POT@JF#-W\)B:1)+1FK,-&9,O2:,ABG>+N7EYO+(SH_T12(
M-V!_S?"%KHN8SP&/:!4\J/@CMM?W[":"+S"L/PY@+U&9:TK349/^W!L
MJ.N@CB*7-S0H0\5NR#7,Y1N:NB$Z0@*9:]67,6+0[?FR;&;&=GU5XDE;6\"-
M_=,@SS4+VA#:IH$&?".P#9%N&H@@:6&Q(09N/&IP[90V1,J-1QH)8Z4-`76J
M!.+9*6P(CI/%5]&6"1X?-\)12QDLX%L:SBP8ID?,@YKU90;%UX:@+M2VP.NK
M34H&@64$OG>O^%VC&KT.;[BDEP>\'N-@1(6.D`9%T$K!.A
M[Z0VA\(2$-9\"0!_0>%ZDZ-@\8)2;XV^96A51#?ABN6#&K2D(3$C,XNQU((-
M4%/06<6,NABV?YTG<9YZ?EYXT3UY!43-Q^FC02`OLCS9HO0>537>LTWX+(">
M,V,N,4T#Z@*Q&<39[M;[=Y(*&XXJK&`8A@UTQ(?$[_*LN(K]\6FZ8VK$(DG[
MNL@%V/19T^SX$,9^C\C?Q$F4K'=GF+N<7D$F)'(3(6[&8^H%B'PQ_.?[9-C4
M[OT^&@C=W=_K"YBQ[W\H9;7[_J`9.@/4>\-)T%\;K*MYU
MN=K'OZKY+EV&+8PU^G!:=%O0X,@>245RNN?B%C&)B=O^-3^$29/H3M!CCZL
M&;LWI`C32#PV&*&44*(+2C88F)30[$HG\+8C9SNA\NY96468&*JE0KD%2B[Z$$HTUM4
M>6Z&Q^OMLQ>F95UQ=L-!QN#W8M`SQ3AFI,G'*=T6J6['7SN\"NZ4MW&5-RCV
MR_&U0F15NOP?YW$5!@&TNLRUN\DQR-QC(GK(GOLXSUJ7[DD\L@'*.#7[;:1)OS/7O3I=\!>4#=C9862%^5C$U*D@/2:&1#KHQT%9]YY$:
MX1O\?ON>8DK-.S.>SM^8Z`QP-AO@QL,4J$2A,S:^1_.>)OPP2WS%K&T1!_L?
M+]`+BI)G8ITA[67X+D;Y^;#%8]Z=9=!$@ZD1!6B,]V@E/O1MTXR\@2^OL&>%0!3GJZH>T!1+JX:X%@00L$%Y3I@C*=
M7=%,&YPI]IQY!X_-JD2\G2%FK@SZ#&M[GS9_-C>^PI1*YU`1&`9:+`W0TTV,
MT9JE)4XA1LO*4$6-,5JS#%=4C-%R!:(M+0(\&W,L8#%D^RRT>HM_###WM:+?
MEZMC,%D&/?XD$,.7]QSF7A3^CH+S9/MWX%7JUF"^6NB#V^\EF%8SS,99V0=5EE2::HU"X6'&>JL
MO;K-!.2)C#4P:OVYI#CXJIF>Q"G)@BE7@#[T\TAR"EG&MRH,Z$!#E2
M`>)>&/OHD=35X\\R`QM)#S$WV*ODN)10.1$Z:>&-@\*&ZX(!BYWI>$+EK%?T)47
MIC][48&6J^:7I?+'A%QBJHL9K'@X]PYTAD#`>$UZ*:(LO_/"@`%C9XC1/I`)
MZ7:3Q.M'E&[)1\R@6VLC3\%=4*K(]$&O/-@TS
MX=V3G#Q3O("^L;LT\1$*LJLTV1[9"QGH\&:`8%"D_H;DTIY[4531FBN.L#
MELUDVTC;3ARVOFJX6T,/FF:7M128H-@(SC=(I@=INF*WR8$N`Y%KR>LFAZ\,
MOMU4*X_)X2F#,6Y;SDT..QF,:-=8;7)`20]4N;*1R6$B"KCV\3Z"!XI,@;K`
MS=?0X*\VTZ"'C@8Y6R0N894H6LQ7@R:0M"6=_LQQ4YL;I:D+.Y[A0[7$C_%(
MTAT[-9H_S09-6^(8$O,/LO5/?+Q!W3A[19Q4":7
M'P':?QUXZN\!O<<07JY6R"<6D#NL">"_>6NY4&G1&B.>$]D2TYC\JM?Y,.:;
M=2X/.2D"-N!03A:`Q^_$5N623TQ/X#``]NG2-\P*OI]OT#A7Q*(,-"$\V(5B
M*_#MKTF.,E(VXB[!VE!9>*5F1!&ENTO2V>'Q%?]R=Y6D^6X9(W9;
MIH$KCH'5:])`\/\5,BVF$1=\
M^4^_9>R^G'AWRZ72`Z7S;Y7!3045M-'S;EE2``E)1[0"\HYM[]
M#%JP?T#9^!^0G
MQ2D)!EC>74("?,CS/`*I),+8K0FJ4D"4;Y`$#[2:"G6JC=P&1WJ_0%A9?XBJ
M@]$^"K`\#?"!!GHB*4<1*^W+3!,1IZ7/2ET'=HFE?)IV0&'W$I!XZ/*47)X2Y7,T,$]IQNDZHZ6QF("FCE0/
M>2?0`=_/\\.7ZE1J$)83!J`B_&O70(BRY0HZVA\F#MU%T[J(SEE'=!Z^\'OT
M7#U2^%N_2\/8#Y^]2*:;.IH._X6VO9@36[BW"_M:S`
MFM=#N.=B=N#-["#*&QS6>M=A*\TY:S=VGR$I;E:Y/T.L8CT:/WAC*0
MZAM58=$KA"GG11B,NF?Q&8HQ&9B=9P6S(#2%/4Q)BL)UK(H):Q8@)H>;H8((
M:Y)Y>"R>\&/E^?WP.4P&Q*N,R%[$P0W>2?7+$Q_'FB>G)>R
M>Y-D^]YK>1@78;Q>XIM4WH_LA&@86I3EH7^$CHX5+:%`+2#K(\!^04OPOPWC
M\C/?)[7C]["[RKZ(?KY)\%]>\)#2^Z:/8+TAF*U9YL'?H*"(T')UGFR?D[CR
M=E+?O2XWYUIJ-*P*BQW3GC-P12?F#Q#S]=W5)KUAX`69JS*@E]1:I`:3C0AF
MT>P@9\";'VPA67_1!-R^+:>]Z>&$UBMT%^$*J^4H]C%Z^2M"<>L.$,(4.0H6
M>V\&L>H76-38W5?6?8."50Z%P`YP$!AI5YTA/"LL`*%=R(-7_ZEKG1!XM76M
M;@YEC@`\N5[I$2+#VH`%YQ+4
M8[@-YMBR?GA;FZ@*A-0O[$9&Q+;?3'L+7(,I23`*J;T'O"Q"#IN3!%
MNXX`:\-#U[^Y4R!3@@YD/?>>P]R+B*OCW$O3W2I)7[TT$"$DGF\$=EWZR^)T
M-,L(3+[@+T?Z4*K!1L#=NO!?D2C3C#7+0$PD'W%
MK'0(:JWY1F"G\#D9\PWU^'",^UI*[5X6^FJP$7#C'_:_J[W\Q.F-_[>2C>.@
M=OIG#QLO16<>ULO:`\Z33/K,=&QE*,V43I\UW5#ZA1MB-EB;XI11XJVB#EX
M?HN#$%_]\(D$A=4^N$LOC.1JICD:&M&]O14%6L6'+1UZ(,V1!Y,0*E:BG&AAB*
MP=@?&Y!MB'X8XFV(*Q$LKNAW-/66L.@Q&Y]5&V[%&$0A!5,U_$J2;>5
MN&>&ZVWW-'W]$FR7OD>JX_%T>=A@KWBR+?E%><
MXL$3##8#;BJ-A_2"X@(]H/0E]-'U_YMBLM5;61\*)ZR,`B]E)TNH[``
M#'Z-F(!/8^\B9B)#'VT0Y(>7\P[A1ZA4=4CML[H,&G'T-7*G''92*]I"@=KY
MJ9$"^Q4-HL#CQLM_28HH(`Y=/S^D6#YRZT7U7`S$E"8GPE)[.IP(C>!6-@EC
MJ4CD[6(J$%O`'4)TLZ)4:X?WT[]!MC$!3XXR.9I)"4D5,<3D("8EI#7:4DR.
M<5*B"4U[-3E(2?&6,X11D^.0=&`H%%A,#D[200`YF=7DL*71J7#074R.85*B
M@J(%`3RB2(G6D1O&S:TSO6'X,N3FF8$'S+8C'.^O\3.VB%\A/D9>A[!YE140.G;2!N",OUQW"
M_R5C[Y(LS#GF>BU+&T^3EB#R2YAO\'C\ASU#XQGZ=>YA$)7P8T'!H,XR''IW
M5!5J\?PWF22,!B99_C5C6U?+F:RG5@WC91YF,D&XVF(
MPV1D)IN;I_FV)$ACGIU:-VF&L7IP@[;0Z"6M6YMKV'NG5B]17/@]1CH-\%%>
MOGG;,*ZOY+LWA=7.Y'/B4TUWW!A/ZE`S0J%="/=DL+K=/16*WH/9>0B9Z-*7579H6?0[;`_:*RI1I-WCD<9
M`.DB3X1;\XSTLG--0LKD>E49J99&!%*:.I=Z
M.Z:80QFO\@3>21>WZ7).O6V&?MQYD^`EG"57L,9*##*^*H\1^"*
M#=-2H\`>Y)#N4&O&MAL]A#/!4".E0Q8@*O@K[/>"2.`GKGD0#4#ZCC0.B4>WGU>-1GMW_'.6X)
M_AR=UCM,H/JGF_"%GHTG'&Z=*>>]6O`$5Q'<>.=,5LYD9:;2`G%V5`9[K$K3
MWV\;E&D^>G0V#Z\[#\5+*/S9D#7-1%&DW\)72).R^DJ);!W&VB6(+2:1\HQN
MDGC]B-)MJU$TB$FD:G#1JM[U-8G]JD0CRS#"F^*46;W*K)Y3OL'W:UV78?G1)VET;GS=YL51`;^EUD>XD^,V&W)HO@F
MG2=9OEP=OD!)S8/X"FB`G>V^>CF^SAS7
MGG":*;BP-$>Y.:9@41&6ZZ063IL1+LK9,0I?L]HW#/CEEOP4\]5[S(RPN+7O
M+TPW/U''.G->39W:=GQ7I/X&$ZIA\F>[QKZKF84Y
M`U+N9]MWM7>+.5`^YMCETQFO[=++7XQ?8^M15!&N:+CFHJ.#SF]?;$'
MX@[U\"T^:NB!WM*#D[T-D4Q,Y,EXV"PY63VP;S1EZJWH33&1>--EMU1MIADYJLM]*&5>FW=YD9U4_++N6:'`7E7;\
M>/8?^""_*;`]M5V#=X+1CK>$/Z%!^B]6(4VSI1[P%FIL!ZP_&2F=V1?
M@-0.Z?Q`!4O=#+(A%;$=_#Z"9TF.31FQ30>\MMG8).#8)FO:%ZUYU#^!\UV>X"LTEE.RT6@D`7_6%1/P!J';1P"%"J"]*LCS
M6G>-JXR`+3MHV5J4!#U[L8^BB'RZ2_P*X"\Y7I=RY8"4/?AHQOG&QW0/*5AD
M&N?MRCMZP:P')3O;8,S.^8EH:HL8C.=U?!6^(-+;5^YV
M2BUD-KY)D>K!]["0T?@^XEWU''!K);,Q?DWTX+M?QV!L'S$8D14N+L"'89TQ*-/JC#8%`HU&B+8G;$!DT&B%,B!&2
M:'.A+O4?A`UY$1)`57DQ"'M:J^XS"47#E]UK]:[!/V4>
M!^&^J[P;3+7T'/63@F1$5*C6_SC&LO[UO\X71X"W_J"GD@YY]QYR;X?W7Q.&;;C7$M.>WL4EX_3P'V98E>A+FA3/RYAS7$(]ZJ#2@^!"CI%7ZN1T(#R\1!+F%^M@#;<8=ET5D6Z2+.NP%Q(R
MN\6:!>FE$0=>G+,\AI(S)X*2[>V2GFL-I*.?_5V$=\G#U4KY[+LS)X*R!T6/
MYUH#*5#5"RIXQ'"Z7#6_IK&X'@L8@=^)"5F$SPUHI.,).+S"-HS!\'#ORN+0
M7K3`XF2:[O`ORRH*4FBPYIJ#50NGF\F=G=)2N[;UR2O>V3TQO-TI7=4=?0VP2.3R#LHS9S^U(RA
M6N$X*'!B.(Z':JK"^H*BB%=_M?5W/3N6+_UR53L0_X&\E%I?FSI.*P1W7E[Z
MPJ((K5$0[?86ZV!)549K7,CG[DLM/U@AKVS\BA(TV&.+5KD^1^VIW
MQ\!`607J725IZ4!IA#26P88W0\^9H]0G"="$&7]%^:$'->7`Z2-!Z)@F0>'G
MRY0T+@Y]GN^'.A009A+A4(-"SW41C[B!M]_W623>L_O59XJZ$'>JFK".%63"#GUM#':I&+
MOL5ACH+R(`\*5*.<
ML*;C(7"I-SUC5IORQ$-=U!:!J1[R13"5<04M>4MS\-#V\>'?@/D)GDIQ:D=T!7/A8-
M_I3%"7XC$\'TR]XKNO!`!:93I+G_4`GP0^X_-5!1?/0G\7CP!S_@_NLA@MWW
MGQ%A>7+_3YQQS?TWK^S!,)2[?K\&3_A*[?Q6":J!IMWJV)QP(OC;+=D!820*
M&/&%,RLEB2-PV6B&[Z%`DAR!AH5'V5`B:;EK1E(K8@V][,0K.W3A)\(9-HQ[L::AC@Z_M8I=L"&6#L>VREG3QB`;E
MN4A9*CE^#?8S%;I$&8`-`6R7OP:E27[!&_,_S
M1_PH(*!&_"]S0%P0VUFC^MDST54NY(X]N\X`RKXUO=QZD4,CT
M:^(GYX0Z-7&P0=46.PD?5>5ZJ0T!;+$A2'[QIT6F&U2A#`9RT1J\]$'*&TY+
M>@-7&>6B,@9C:D3TA<0-%N8G=EV-.?6)^@QEYI$ZRY,4QA,-\+0LOKD'1DEY
M;.-S5(6C.2)SO0M2O=';.3F-7G-2YKIOY;O8GV0V-2S.\HNH
MD.36X&RNXT?IGI*2\`U2YMKVY0]2IM9X@S%\8R@.FQ/F:G^+\NBSS+O2J:`J"6P+GW'.9>1,2K5!&W1D`$[;XK-/6[FV[ND:>K7NGC\&3`U=?!UN\ZR`@47!;'[
MWB'\,`75!?R*7LL_L0OL2$T&P^L>/1?$=9'1X./AQ)\X=782[_WK2!^\VSCC
MY"19^O#?9!O2CZ1O@N17;4/6D1+.@B\>/M%H9A5/I%WN$IQ26V`?F.1,;N`F
MB3"TV>5O!8%_>)-8)\J)8&*4LRJ_^>8]8#;5$0P>!1::A,@9:(``=9<2V]QV
M4>0;_/']CH+%EIAAY80HUF0]M*7N=?GV'*;EYW;AY712R\PSA_+WB'RNF*,U
M5&S&]#@,F?4/KK,$.)79XPJL^0R=*[+JREG@"317K5[T+J
M90>7Z84RL%@$L%_T/T[X2=%%^!(&>*'L`OD11C0`<9(WSHT#//BJE)0_P$5__J6F0O"S
M/31WWHY04]DOP$%`/3[BN4JF?%+T>H6,ETWE-\
M(I287*VT!X(R4B5XQ5(Y_8K.>!%Z0'Z!+V)(
MJA+^N\AR(NU\1?ERA0^X,N/@>2GR,L(YR_]=/&5YZIVTNIYP8Y/H>8%!??%R
M_._L/PLO"E>DOM\B^P%A4!$;$P/M4:`VBB;6M[:+J,6Z_:5-24
MWG3T-X%IU!1/,NF,O\586HE([-@7+-(3LD7J1AAEE5V]78\UP';&0FO?Z1
M1"13J,&F)>F,0+6>V\U38X=(/)I.RVM;I\:[AR8;H,VDN5X9PV2;N+GT5]->
M3;;!FTOC(7J?R4X!/'5&RIAW"223T[;E&F"@3;)(K:W)COW'(IE,&`&\1*!1IF$;E),BE,[[;I/WG:7)'.LN^MQ5M)6=;VIZ/PZ,"\]K(9_.2>/\,T[+M%Q=ZOD4F>Q[&H=0&KBQR0ZCL6]7
MCR?<9-\/Q!U3D)U-=N*,1SII91'<1^/L.EV[SL+WBVU1&G!82$/DX$N`I2D@
M>XR=(&1Y23S.JT'X=^;]TT-#I9VT6`4D`>,:TY37,/BL]9PCR!DQC3A*\UVM`6E;_A2:?-_OLVE@
MJW1YYJK?#R'CQ#S8>!/`A+3L&]1HJ!U@0LJIR2S&FP0FI)Q!(9MRZFP?\E%
M]08M:-!)W7IOX;;8+N*X\*(C/M-ROJ5;Y%K''4OR+C/DU-
M4CH0H'0FHAR7P=)&VFQ_8[SDEV]8;25JA,GLA'K$7C=R->5\IPS;2RLR+#S#DC=26?PKA\\#+V5R*>I`6V1A):KDJ4SW9$R:K_00-,,`/B
M_F&02OTYKAD/G:RBT;KHB=G5,D;LDST>HG'?Q]=$M&\S!.2D\!/_U=OR%/W.
M$$@8J9R4,V(GX1QY\WC*"].RX]`BRXIM)9EA-2;U0]*6$2LQN@DFWM`J
M^M4JBJ2%??3MK**=Y'L_WCY64:M6F[[@@7EV'5?OL6Y2T3>QD4[+(L]R+R:I
M!M7YCT2JTWW`J/4DQN+I&(N#7$2>WN7JO.D,P;?'C[CA5'(H_5@?O72-^#B0TD-'V4(H_'BVBN$8(M+Q"-:!XS/-X`B&=4D;'R.P9"O4X^:9WPRP1`242.FP1,%QL18
M.GH"//M_3"J(XA],KIMLS"NZ=QJ97/$8[A&E6)+`BQB/?*M.@UOD*OJ:1C
M1/."U^PU]8%C>)(:>CFQ6M*CU)!L7K+U%&$%#>WF)72#&(8;8LY+GI_"O]G0
M;EY:P/BQ+0WEYJ5"C!C)V)!LAHJ$=-IQ0X5Y:0DZTD`/M/D\3S5`1XIH0Z-Y
MBO:2"96^A@-77H228WOY_GB>^2HK!'^:;X(M_)%:F3_
M,#]D68$5-<9_--1[;E\I?8*0P0='2;9KXW.42=X/E%.>&-#(_/LQ5/12)C:WA#)/*O2U$1J5SP[T.4GA"K5C3$,@\
MJ\"D+Y!$68Z&5E#./K[LR@_.IFL9ELBO_5$S7885196W8Y.ZM42:-]]0'XP\
M5JU*)0U6BBR7-3D59T)R
MZ6))\+DZ,_.0"'U+2[%IV=HMIO!,7'$
M<>-KITQ)^>G%!>,+NUI.U/1B)T*(IWH`QHG0F+/
M%GZ..4&^`PD`&;FEKC-&3W..$*VM=(<1](_FE`L=&+J^5::2R]\*?!^OXPS+
M^"5N96_XQXT7U_&L5TFZ0F$9B#9.]X,>$,R2POBISX[JC91NO0LL^ARX'13Q
MY8";U[F,V_1#=?LYT]:\:Z\*W[Q.YU`/;IPF+LK[SY2Z]TD4X?>5TO4$"(B9
MTMF\YT4!M'F=RP""%]W`>QZHN>-3".S\/BB/+^&X\)JB)
M,%Q%PGQA?*N1=W=ZREX=X[N?O+LC5#8B&M^-Y=T=H5H\`7A'&&89#'VV0GKE
MB\$ZZ@S#YD>F_<3BIY%P=AO';U
M5O7:2%@A_!I83>LJUN?(TN`FV=)@NK!+-XZX'6RJ1PW*8KU.\?W-2=&9-,1R
MI3]>&H?DEF`V@"9N1&
MQ,Z[_!RFY9S1JDYP=K*18N.6Z)A!(8Y3I:7+(D5T`Y!D9'>W49)AX\:2'SZ/),GT@<0(W9AW)\94D*7V-9%"K/.2[U`6$KG$Q4!AM)J8%A):V[>U"1D5H``A,+$`7.=
M904*+HKTT!*\\BJUO3-[4)GRIOI"+E)E2*.,:7PW3>K#F#Z1&08J3'U(8RN9
M)F?\V$IKBD/"Y.0>F'=G$OW*_(QWN\DN5MK,3UBW[`2$3G?P_'+)1B;C!V.8
M&Y$[6@J^6F3&2`+&L<5'*/%#32T'N&A:RDG"8C7>S3RFWF,37[",RN
MPV9>@10`ZO:PY,PB[MR8^TF-,C&Y6.#D#JR1GEN^7;?A#"9[0J8'V
M"A*:;P%98>^2A\
M0KMO[&.YL9DGRM1&>JZF)_&MV9RY56UP*\W1&+82
M,&H&6]^U)DU*D']!#F&.HL]ZAC)XZ"07^BK'\LS5
M'(&M`V"NA^K5N8[+F..2F''P!27KU'O>A/Z%EWN+(`@K6%NC(/P2YTGL(^+C
M(0#"=.F2A.59&HR]4]>D[2G#P;]>UD24R/SPX6`ELOJCI+U>>B40C-G0"6WO,E/G^=8;80E6O:'FBH'?KX;,+O>@>X8?0#R-R
MKF/K]W8O4W*:FO+G:&H7A]40,AX%1%HB'75.Q%Y>_SCIV5J@
M_26,@^0UPWO5/]V$+X@-'F^X4]&=BFX,]I*/!'B;-GGED]%[BOL!6Y$IS46/
MSI5,3D^6PXLOQS?XF9?\*X>?4'\R.55*#D5)@X5JZI%YB*I(-"87W!-B*VN5
M`"]WYPS=AAI\3VP%"9AR/8KI*4_RQT7P559X6NW=ZC=T$/%FW5?9L4A,0RCZIPFK/U
MZ[5VZY,"9F#ZUTL,6SP!0.21EQ]J"OUDI:]$V;1G@/D"K;PBRKN(JHI[LD=L
MS)/)9P'CHO^OSR800%3"345.;5]]L2Q@LKMP&.XJKBMPN%Z[C"+$3,,INC[NF\370VW"+H
MS%_%617'M12I?6?F6A(55`FI:\M3$61I
M]J[4`F6J3B0AP2L0]E'S5#*"MX%.0D5.K)[9U10I>EDKS`MKYD'ADX#D.KI\
MN5HA4G1+4\!7\((PQ;'BN^;$?)T,TN*B)\]N$9'CQMC5>#X4S^0*["/IV3#)
M3YY+B)H.U:L5"\IY4$2"8/_U[%>91`GF^/,DU6!W&<97(KF?
M1=8\'IP/2C`#XM[6T"S3&A9.K`9U*"#,;0IRP\?8XYU**Y<'RP:1.WYJ+7DP=Z=G#FG]K&:L3NLE/UN)@4K`FYFU3?+$R9'%*GCRN?Z
M)@<2J>.J8&L!#RW2BCC%P&5#K0)Y!$6:/GC!@AXU8D90Z[$?DFKW&=8WJA`OS."\MVI@VP!_
M0Y3'TF%8-A].(N*"((%B!58I=T0D\&+%%KXL(WA5=.0(Z+/=WOVS8QEC56?K
M,=F+]F/V09*QV.$FC-'GI#G-`>X#8],
M_N_)^$G[F:E+"(W6)\FN9VB>'4"ZL3BQR=83,'+QXI7,,[P,_2`'\')PLXQ<
MNS@U#,^EW+A_U:$674+R(\I0ER-03P/
M0G.@0<76&UBC#8'\/,GRY:JF:E`]U>=>MKGSPD`>(^XJAF!ZN5HA/\=\^0*_
M"C6PU5\^R2/*6\00/+]Z6W1\%O((4F?/Q0YKBNU)DP6C^]Q?H,Q/PY(3L4P8
M[`D&P,]R;0B'&P`[OXHE=:P!4'.C7&E#38`9[\>STC%&&P(YWS[*'*_%OOQ/
M;[M%Z77LLTW+QT/@-!1IB?&@J9R@!VXBD5-2!-)D6T61(`J\=CTS:P$['5G`
MO3JZ)?7=G:&=70-Q.F*,%<84!5Q5U1)X0\OH^-/5%9.](YH0YVO>X'X/^4`T
MCE!IL45?%CVAG`INP->.*E-D@:\B*V<7YJL4@E,U1C11?Z).51`.KGT#I*&L
MW_]9>&F.TFC7,G9_B[TB"'.\-D1,FI?&I#3#'4H?-EZ*SKPL/)SR<8@9=2Q(
M)-T1)!=A1&J)2,*]'ST7BV%_.G[!5S:K*FDR:-<>X6R:%4V^HES8W:6I+SCF_$E28+7,(JNM\]>F%:`^G.VBR#?E(\#QN3,&
MFP$WU^/.'&XQ[$#-*`_@7+YY6\R!R`OP3^2EW_![G[9^)\)&-!T&MRJ!_M!C
MJ,R#O[Y_X(;]B&8YDT]%IUOO+=P6]/IJ]#$@4&*91@AE9XPS3-EIF+KWXC4O
MQ*SY.QATW%O8'F$\A$#V*%("Y%M<9(47W:7)2YAQ
M!&&U-<8W7-(Z2LK)&>"
MUVV69FC?,[3$2QNJ9FR=EU=!9VRX5Y1LYFS05[!T.AN_U9A25#?SHRX'X,F2
M<4V*O^2I(R2=1Z(=X!M[T+$K\7^?2U'E>=G#)
MLZ,;HR0G@Q;:8YFK.0-!X>6F1W]/=&1^W'#;R]57]-JZ)RG^?(K8K[X2_/W\$^6+`'_$S`2D?FOI
M*<6]?8Z2'4(/.?E6B]3?>!FZBSS!M5*;ZV+HKKPP_=F+"K17YI+B5M,L@_H\IZ*O^_DYX/&ZLD='7,X4"Q>AYQ71')#9;E=[HF(Y\%@
M0S*MDU12KF(.=S:4BD`!@)7#!=6JLI6=5B+B(/+WXKPF/`2_?]'G_Q4BQTY3L^;MPYSIH\LC5YRHC8U`L0OJYE
MP?>:^67X14'A"X&)>TODYD)@]2TC_1&S/-QB`K-NRM$@9\MWMGP`6[ZLP17<
MEJ\-8[XIUN1`134\CQ\ADZ,/U3`;8"0R.?!0C0@24CMX>*'&;Y;M>K`A#$B:
M.?%$9?A>K1H>91X!I!7:`ZJ?S(W6D[S4?33>!OU/EJ*OZ*IK$+9=
MO&);^1LM)'V##S9?;L/U*RK,GDL,W;QB-=Z5)\_YDIPO:2(M
M4>59!7^:B!?X&Q04$6D=B@$)2+.&\`4](+_`=RY$V>6;'Q7XKESA&UWYLRMW
MYTI5J!EA(UAZG7N17T0UD%^++:F"E:2+.+A`^&LA-=*2]#H^@9YGD!EI$R<3
M.9G(R42SD8ET/T'@@M0(E-''S,#C9YV8V14SRS"&*BAG']1P^4;BL%#3V
MG/0R&^FE[Y,"+L9HS)=38!O.`F.8]';N91OR_R3GX,6+4-45I=EGAA4AK478
M\\C+LG`5HN!L1SJEI9Z?%UYTZ^5%V5\44UO*7C!H2?MY/JN`8LL!3KNMLB:H
M@8O!6J.^Q6FM1/6SN_59R4EL3F)S$IOU$MO01Q1U=VOT`I_H"K5KV'PC;X4_X'"M:D/A?IXEN*[EH#I8;TKQD`+YVQ
M#EK2F>RFNHN2UAK+;6YKBB#L=
M"]-[CT+KO3O[;%(_JNLV;\)G"8@5;%)0B0[
M=NH`TS@SN+]!'DFVF$:MNG^DO=C0TT[*)B(FDE1K'SW/`L:]\6M/@)]O\!H>7JO$+Z,C
M@:V9.L<9X)S9P8FN3G2=HJ,;_=$"%T1-D;6LX,$NP^;H4E>ML&Z11^@4+.-[
MDI648J&L[/[]+4Z>,I26W>VNX^@]
M87Q)X`[K+BIF_.C8P\F+3EYT\N)LY$7-#Q"X?*DG26H"#@=N]=2O='7>>#7>6?S8/%OI!.E<1&D)Q[L=[W:\>S:\6^WY[MN+?CWM9S[V'/B>/=
MAO'N+TD2O(91-&.7=__GF$<^WAO4XY
M-IA_'83?_0'*QX:?SG`&I(82]>Z@H5&B;@7Z`GO946AC0*IX-"YXBLT>.+_DX1
M<4*9$\J<4&8('V8^F^""E^.U4KS6&=`,YENMYHU/>:O)G4JO8962=K`C%\+E.6AC\_N
M"O\^7*N2H=^J3I8=69:=$LYBN_727>L)/,?B6ABO$?X0Q%7\I*U)+G.CN1/=U
MG-=Q7NLYK^*#X7BO8;SW/-ENP[S\<1$'7PHO]?#EU*`?,WB+RGX4]J(RW=GC
M3=3G'0]V/-CQ8/T\6.EA=6S87C;L5&%SF=L2WVJ/Q+S>("\KZTJ@+$,*H8L*
M"SCF[9BW8][6,^\^3X=CWX:Q[Q*16R_/44KX-R/QP;%L`UFVW-'1.8?<7,>H
M':-VC'HVC%KRP7`\VC`>_9#C)
M-E*B:%>SV29Q>=F619[E7AQ@D?X^B:*K)'WU4OX5&+Z>EJB]APV^>??HN4C]
MC9>ANS19I]ZV]:T(K['B"DX*='8-)R?-1T[J_QR"RTUZ0BA47U#P)#]-Z8PB
M@0>\3)<3BT^B19Y3M"&4V-=;(X-!JS4)8:+S/N$T)SL;*3L[.WZ11Q9+E5TEZ>J2M$U]$)5AX-.M^D%7PQ2"?30]+T%2PZ(FE.H!^Y87ISUY4
MH#(ST2Z!A#5P-55CM.;X;SVX45Y?NP[=>B9X7*BF
MB]1#V)]1VU8-,BUX0U?=%T%!^FUP_[.EN(^F!S:D^8NSAYI@#ZW[%-VCYR0E
M12M^1_@I
M\=VFR"G,2[G>%KW5]RO@*G&-]*HG"@`0)BIBXIL5A72;5`?T2
M!JWZ'2&7.*W*\5OWWF1YX(LRR/G0UI\4X+<9I,?/18OH^*N":C382Z)(IY^/"&I57V^_.FD`@G*/C
M:PK-!-Q%YNPM1_:6XBE#OQ7XQ\N7\O5T'A"3[2OO2M*>$D[F9\``F3G>Z0E.
M3X!@X^P+#*X).)[;Y;G_67@IEC>CW>%O+:G4,6"C&;#DV=&YAN1D)U@X$YYC
MS;-AS;)/AN/35O)I%XY@+K=NC%O\LU1+3E19R_%RQ\L=+Y\-+^_YH#C6SF;M
M__$#V>+)RQ#^Q_\/4$L#!!0````(`*.!^D#*X',WW0,!`)3$#@`5`!P`;7-F
M="TR,#$R,#8S,%]L86(N>&UL550)``/1I!%0T:014'5X"P`!!"4.```$.0$`
M`.1=:6_;2)K^OL#^AUIO8]$!+%ND[FSW#)3$R1IPMPW;/=NSP2*@R9)=#9ZAYR/7^?E$.QN?`.B8
MKH6W]D^"9")W_]R[_^RT__-AJ!BT]?UK?@VK&1`\'EZ!<8>.@5_&Y"
M&WI&`,&]\>HZ[NX-7!D/T/;!%7+^>#!\>`K(OQ9P'?#[A]LKH)]I`#P&P=/[
M\_.7EYFNSL'HU&D\V_,NO=@?J8MSN:I7V[=O6.]!Q;4-6NS
MT4;C\68SFFX6^FBY,/21#K79>`*G8_Q-ZJZ/'C0"+!!8V.+W0!]K^FB\&.FS
M>WWR?KIXKR__)WVU^_3FH>UC`'XTW^&+Q[,1OD/+1.(47#KF&5C;-K@EE_K@
M%OK0>X;662C)#N,`3E.NO#YY]YGK;,*N?/_JH\S5+Y/H
M6NW\]U^N[LQ'N#-&R/$#PS&3NXB8HONTU6IU3G_%E_KHO4_OOW)-&A$.NT#I
M%>2O4739B'PUPH&=:&>OOG6"8P#`3YYKPUNX`=2`]\';$_SYQ$>[)YL83K][
M]."FV`K;\\[)_>_CU"2`7_79[&4NA$O;^.4[FK6$\
M,2$V2&-H*?V)@"MC*WP-H&,1A]BW1$K%,V5*2"Y0
MH42L:V8$VB0Q7*_0>RIK8_@/5&!D.$'3.;2#V)41PY<6Q2'\^MO:-#%Z`__&
M>#,>;/AQ[WG0"2)-U#]*0)47G\>&D^LSIGO0=_>>"1O%@DAI9,(W^\&FH,.7
M$\:$SNBWNQ.`K)]/D/5MMEHNQM]FX[FFZ]^T;]K)7R(I(!0#0CD_,=UBW0DP
M<<6ZZF.*>@E'F,6T\=U>?**%N
ME\_W*XELD8*/($+YL6NI3+8>01!C`TM0`RI$.9N'B
MQVCA^LW=05R]0K\6(L="D@(B3CI#K#$`V"I!J>#K,QVI(Y4,D
M"57[W=XF+;M/\`F7`HBVP/%G&Y(/:\=:[UPO0/^@W]]X[A/T@K(E`.JG?X>ZY=&
M!7U'C])&'`G"%C"22J"T./%"J4?')T*S#.
MDJGYFKS\/KH[[,G>>\@?JG0M^/:^K^]
M'Q`GH/?.?4Y*4Z3',(693\?O/3I6#OD;FH#R!@156O$#!#;`;`A@%@"
M$E-`8@OM;[C>D!)/.I5+B"ME=1*"O>-!PT;_P*'=&LCQR>@-<1YS%QGB^:,Z&B64@-`W_3*F/6,>N(?8!8B`@%@)F(F`V
M#H4E>WL"Y;SYHXTU0?\=(5`+>NB9FC,$`A5#!BTH5<134YAD\8L"HJW#.O?,
MMWO/\UETA!UX&11*";+K4.CB4Z)K3CR*"PC;'1%3A8LS,867RD55L];->#6?-$?Z0`JA
M%J&@2+^%`6Z,X#A`PW.0L\6M/`MND(F"=]FQ#S:`:F;BA*CZ;N)"YHG*BL`A10W2'U6=,(M*G-RF.@4EF6`7K3DBP51CGEV)][Y$'K,W)0`*^P:=8E)@=G
MB[!9:]^'P7I'IHR6OLAX;^^U`.,SBB=YIZN5MHC'.9EL86_N;#S=Z^0IM\LT&,2+4P
M7VHHYU#'>#EMQ@&10A!J!$PE(#J5Y0014:(<<>!]9VYC^0^N$HYKY9Z#']^@
MX?GO%*?!6H)H2(LU4174/8+-\!'I7R"]+^Z&S!*(;%L[U@U.J$?#A_[U)C'/
M;*=_P4EA/6QW+_"(%)I@NY^V!#9@P9ON^2&`18-#!2=I$5C0]['[\PR029>!UD$,DQ(GXEV4N_?HJL/J7CR?&?Y#:4
M\&ZR=,6@GISUW9/39^R35U$45JJ3S=R*7U%DC4*LEW3-9S2'72),=\]S]"6$
M;)D+&4D?TE%M."B5AYDB?A0R/X^BW'^BSJN":S:"(IX`EB$[%"7$N$1!D8WA:GJ_%B>#@]L0+\
MK1&`G?$&'B#8>H9#Z#?>?PCBPX[YL?CPH+X[LD)E0&($)D
M=%D?Y8J>$)!:":-..E8
MAXY/X7\+&4G".^@](Q/>0`^YUBTTW:U#I?S-L/>EK>O.U?;9`N_8&;YFV%A?
M1+ONI"8AWKL@!3=B$IGV'AH%$JM`VBP0VP5"PP"S#*1,`]0V2:UY=2).&>TN
MAJJ0%&0`YQ=4K-X?Z4L
M%\96T/E:Z4D`^$?:?HQL`1_>2*\EIY_%=*[/'6(VR1$EF\
M1+G^0Y[K<0QJ&&O?))7S[ECZ7P2S=Q()("+\@9)'T@^PA4][XH2;:NR',I"IMAM0;W#L?!?
MX.X!>KG8EUW4?\]PS@2N1S_19OHL[!=./?JO3$3?\Y6/%V]Z/
M/`HE]K26Y'VJG[7033&HVWH0DGR_N@A$4)WZZ5#V\EPMQ&IZ7MDY1CW&"@C"8"*`$2%`>XXB>=80]
M):O$D7[@60J0!)\E'DLI!FTJ'%K%A6I-@9HK2!K$2\\JT;3H_HJ)*S5W1^ZLRHY^O*-)GBVA[!-L.
M)Q5)JD[;6J_U:'W-.["M"Q2GU[+V6JE([^1E5^":I!<=M>,.;FF7="$:ZR[N
M]T568`+GYOC+F9[/[DB.I#07YE:2\Z]4^JYK,J/GD'RV?4^
MA2>01&=WU(&C]L:>*[YJ+\U;/^%IY&
M([O,XTO2?(G'$R+58)<E*H(+LUW7C"71%-4LZU4+]U0X1Z^!A^PQ#]**GKNNR4T]SAMXVN)
M+&?39=)CBC6CX.T_C"?7_T\?D(-'K;T->4X]0XYI[\F)M.`!;I%#=EMBATTX
M[$O#)C>3!4$^>(&XLL7_&_'DV\N-@M6^AO&A>;9UG\\M
MB%CY@C_DJQ;\U;JG>]$N,[#[!*L)BSM;@?!6-
MX:>4I@\YBM2&)WLDB@GP(]5D;5,XH"EU/[&>`\?&-LFM/N:#,$YT@KYIV.:>
M;7L_N,*V;*GBB@D?
MY1?WWAE89@KG+(3I5(^VKP@%@422K!DA`GS2Y/A4TY,FP+'4`'JA>Z3']:-M
MH)W$[K,Z+"6]9=4!$8OLWYR-@>@>RS!`X1FWU\^0;(GC;2&.F>^3%8NX>.1`
M?G-ATIBAJ:F\R;A8Y9CC%#!5(*7KE.YGE:@#5!\(%TB:D4H%>.L$@82>$?3!@OYO$*J0Z'16J/;VIJ,3V5Z9Z(E;@S9?'SSZ2P
M[$$+JK]N!Z+<1;UG:I-]:::KY72^3&>L_"UZVCJA5\.NW_2MW-RFP$-YZ5PS
M731[3>_)W&BFXV2\RN9RIU,Y^5BXN0,I,C;9S@1Y&U-172T
M-SPGJ0A]>M0AL@DE[;![IL^.3-9F#W0'#2+9`D;V`H?-]&;JR"[82(%7*0\P
M#]FE/I!2J.;90#:97_S9]>X,.S6L6I85%3?T22VE9G`N*M6U:+`ODD3GTA-9
MJ6%X24PBPKGP&&O3]2RV@3P*S[1XAN%^B61S!]_=2G!%QB:^I--FTPD'<8!8-""R5>.1MHZS
M"A_?HS+2"O.4#W8%<9&*P8WK^1D#/[I.@)R]N_=_Z]0K'$3M4^P`Q*-7H^P[J(X%AIO42#5.0#=-WT]+CQ;*8>HKOT0RKOHI\NG^!]C-D?G57
M_H==U7*@54^MQ/(UA,5[:
MD:C/KCO&J]$V",:K](&O'EFM9OFRKS7C97DNZ>+N.)"K!>T;/UG8-![\E2GABKKN5]R5\Z)3&H@YB4>20"CV:E^EBKS%AQJZT;HJH7KR`_U1G->];Z
ME*L+.T]+J25H@R4C@1&D''3A!VA'STM5O9.F';K:D!!?C%7FGE_A:Q`:G^Y0
M.F37([.Q@1X%V8C;>L[6Q'0\:T-+Q(R8D+(=S$6%E-K\U$5,*5%]PJR-'.`Z
M$+Q!PR,=S#;T!U$Y-49C&])J&/@!LE?[@;*FXH?#50U':O1D^R%1%*7NR%=G
M`?Q.^:CEB%:;,*O,/J'UZPU.O;_C)WL/'>%U$ZH
M#8`8`;`5`ZR51,+A
M,)]SMZW)A&N"8AD-40+"EH#0E&&70V+#FB.I#3FRB=(4",)@#9"W&B#T"!;C
M?A!#Y#3!55.5_`$Q6-,EJ]/Y4?53(7$-K(H2$L-_#I8266+5A7T@G'3_XH8N
M?,;/O,M"JUZ3VCQ59S]GPT6?KHYF+&Q*S%C$F&'76@(#FZ.QN&\\(K&$UP9&
M8[PP/9+0^![%(*FM@WJK5,&0B*QAM3"=3UI-Y*[FKP&67,='\9^$K$07796!
M5X^:DK]:Y5[Z=F5H)?F++]V7*YV_Z$G^5G&Y1RO7A[#"XS!/^7&:#XI:*/SB
MN;Y_&RYU_6(@ISD2BT0H@<9#P_BJ96VVX.HXH?)!I`!0#:J]HH^*0;CC?>C?
MEMP-"&P`V1V';GYO1(I'&]?N5_JKS12"KZ3LQO+0%]KQ_H%8M1Y,Q\8Q[F<1#LX[*'BY7RP4270
MU'Q!'Q.-90[%"FW)V3"]&[Q\2P+6#,P[?Q-0B([GDS$%*/D&JX:>L879H^'#
MYUET@6!06:ZY)SO7&&0WJ5KU7(DRG5X3S)6Y)N75^&)XUCW6LGXM'SS/7M/G2RVMF;/2FLZB
MYB2Y&9"[P5=ROZR%ZBU]T+E]Z.T]4Y0KF9?(H:LRWN67]YCI94;PS=QWI+]V0B)YM[==A)AT0.>GSD7V_6INGNR>ZUVQO71N8;^_<>O@8?L/(_2I\Q
MW\V]HHK'),[=WL?1V;)LE[/K#4CD`B8R^N\KD0VH^W0OXK0\J4!LDJX9'/+'2$BG7:2D2!FV
MX0H:/GQT;:L6;$=+Z[L[L+VM7#7:1%N,9ZSO,-)P6H)*DKBQNAX!6]K=V$MH
MLIQ5')FUI,A4]V;V$A[]N,R1UEMZ/*'$7:O'QEEFG4(,3-M%1U]JWHLE]TBH
M2PHMX:R.%ZMZ!B=5LL:@`EM01EZ/]*L60:H`I&U&IBH`B
MX""K5$G/&46O=>$$*'C[:/B/-P8JF];46(IR3IR>;1-ADX!2'U,7K1$1]AJ8\2H5>5M#4H+`^2(H"\P:GR:/CPQD,F7-MV
M-(F4[8A%UO5C6`F515'.0V%^D'*`!!9`$(3
M5&D&UC8MT[9>G
M)-=DC>3&__4X;Y+./*1'U%5@?3"MO+-@1`7@``40P
MYSU+5TH"/-P=_CRQNY>9J2@8<5TUI!9.
MYZHXJ/O`(L+;7YZ#E[^QBTGA*Q]7)#]4AQ3)K__ON]O*)RW^881N/F\.>#EZ
MD1Z(?X=NQPWV3JHFF_F^NW--!&[],].HK%IB8BS[SCU[,4^P\RXXG2_$[0_!
M/O[FAFE6>U'GHOSVB"-5H$[`FB_3-"%S02Q*Y:)4,"I*-C,(U6\VWS$OO$O[
M@&W!#5$BW^0P5#%^BZ-.)8\9Q.;OOA>W[2*+'QT?=24%8+$VV:3%A1,9B`JQ
M8+>XITF.LDDC8T885P*`"!R@99;B@ZW/H[^I\/
M?UV\%_?([C/&[]PP?"53_:9B0L&X/7VCYX.^:^S.]EL\SR^E=PBW]!\[EWB!,?DM&C%RW`4Q#MA%]G!O5LOIO1=MCT%T
M"=7X5_B^<0X6:`4;;J\6LU8>SM/VH5R\3:CL9WV&3/M`V!"L[4"4>L4>,'YA
M!'_G;T.:WN$]YO]5^O8R$<8A*58,N(:T3O,YRU')Y:.T`92V8*:@V4`^8$7-
M/N,8;0_D47K\C(\91(,'^^#;'-[M"&YRGZYEA,-M&%+7TFG\A]/Y&+QB_'!Y
MBK:A=Z:S^J]N7`6DVJL&EAP@BL$2DT^+4L&H*!E]'>K^6.L"B&:CV=CA2RD;?#GU"^CTO9,WK6,@IA>LHYPNEPLU]F'";2,>58M52&=`@WOR
MC:K52EPC-]L.FBG!%DXQ!9^96FJIZ_>;&_Z)8ZI97B6L+:M])TDC+[PHZ@>M
M&;=8MP$X;Z984\]\]OMAG.CG,'G`_'((P?L3AJ?!E
ME,)#+,`XE$5J`9--.&G%"CF"F71$Q:.6B!YG_52[_6SU])$VS19+;P3[K;1/
MCF@K;V+J!\]F9#=%>3N@Y;XTA>./Q^#;W_'NV?.?&TM:2)X=&9TU#8`))\I;
M&50*2L08KE#1UZA\1W]/C3IP,:9A(PVJ*D(DIIL"0RL"#(6]PDFYR70RVQ1B
MW7QX*RMOS5YXQZ_F?`O_YD_>"=SQQP]O77W'P'+KGPVOS6K+"
MVZ.OY(!U@ZXHSI*+C(ED1$6_8;*3W"BTMF,FWN1:\A"F3ZNFHY+I;TF/,T;M+:V!5YH6M#G#"'C8J<4[_W&E<>FVJ[0Q0==-1]@`U%G,T^NN_#CHG8_R
MAM"OO)>("$3]XJ'U=+FIT%X_P#*?7+*O7_#*WWS\3")05@ID>.^L60YS''HO
M+DWP;785MU_TE]#=QW&V(9_JB7=TWG!75EYZ\KVC,$MP+U<1N-JZ7"V@L.=M
ML3DG?:S"`CT/G0Z">RW>8;!/;/?HA-16W+?'/A3V;7XS@OJ`5O79>N[QBWO&
M8?,P6?SLF)@5:0#,TK">I[LZF1#$I)@>$_>TR:G8=*92C(*I*:1*6)%;;@H*
M7IR6[WT7^/0/:W'I8.;YO>&!D6$CV`TZJ-,\_!D8CBE[B*PLP!I+]U3M4Z
M=B&KS;HQ,=,2>U7D-+I$S[INJ95?+V[H^C'&47X[4W8<3_WUT5=XXN*EM\$SB@/;7&*ALO[EE8'68YVO!JIXRW+$KY%)H>X^"=+!@K05`L`QYI"9;"CY4;IM5)WV[)%(WMZ9!P*=``6
M;%S,ICD`F1B4RK%@!MK/+D=LEW&D-,17%2)2!QC#AO\0DV[SO??B[;"_HZD5
M'@YN2),J',E_I`MWH%?'1DV+0L`3XM-980F'4#D3BC*I-,$(8G)1*M@@H/29
MG!_;W66F[A(Q-+,#Z=^8.Z*#)#UO;XL!16YU?V9>VC:1E']9XXP"1&6-7D"N
M,*$CH=O=CF7,IRMSWN[.3W+#MG_Z=@EFF*=-+^!^Y=*9"`@H$XYR
MZ8B*I_LY20/&B4BC!YR"!R+F`3I6/A-I;UBV(YX$^0WG(S*0OL2'(&0;7\[\
M9C*9_!HS]8WL_6422#_6BTM`3@4"A*B[^0
M[].>BT=)Q+C\"%8,>!!KLLI''9ELML&;I1--Q",FWX:L.\-X@0$SSZ&:30<>
MDE2A3+!A?"I'=@6OBG[3=1@G:_8K/M*CN^^"*"[LM']JO/"M\KJ!PSA0Y4"1
MN%C3)>19#8^);,2$E\Z;?#)VXWL0T^M49,[TUJ,V`]COZ+-_K",XJN`N'L%1
M\^!(="2_]`U]U3X:@M\&IG&X4J(@([>^M5NLPCSF;GUK-UN%H%&ZEOR/_-
MHG4"H^1).\$L&E\H
MOVT5B.&=SF2UV:S4`&RBLQW.=#75G"<
M##,%08A*0JDH4[U@?\L88A[7(UUY)'W;ES#87;;QP^5\#L+X`8NP]9G-9I4,9!X/
M&+&JFV24')-_;Q-9HZ^F=3(A(P&6O3X\[=13I`=Q>7DW*@T^4@+L?X
MSD]?NYRB76^>W,CT/>?&T*K,S.6V&X+%"ZT_\W3$[_%3_.X2AH1(Y%].^/"X
MH!"H`#SIN9HL,DRD4A`5@Q(YQ@#1SR:.!_X:HA.P)+_ED=8=8_WTCL@U#)&&
M,*L@1.H,"P#2UFN(GC4'#Y4]=5JW3H(.X_U%+YLAS03*T]]=L(NO0NW0VZ,]C2]^@M+KTZ?)G#R
M0QJ((=T6(-,7;Q@?@+*U]ORNS`U?\38(=\169@L=>6[ECJ&_"]B)5R]O$L4'
ME];%P(@8&H?>-DW9?@K([\@?R7C6QRQ=#2*_I0\23D+GR]/1VQY?$9E4[4Q/
M`AOP7.8CJ(K<#Q'_:A(EJE#5AH^P"/><0R.3+
MB^EA:E8D\N*3[T)+#;Y^QC%U6L-A*>";HY]=`.D%/:NW3@HV;6WS2G8)H=I=Q:0JS4KS;:;P0@?"O[(]Z1P=/E)QEC9=VQ[:TRX-.L"G,*([F"*\_>4Y>/G;#GL<1^0?5?B07V5J>-'6/?X+
MN^$'?_?>C:OKUN94T,$$(2H)$5&(RAH7%IJLO%9.$X8'B97YW7;7AI
M!/AH-^(:U^P5'&,0@0\Q&9S>^KM/I"75]8:V=\?'7[-&P$P?LWEE[8%)98O?
M3*YU`T9M5N,0-`GK2(U4%2K),+XMKL#*\&GQ0O\EO2W=
MH0I?.6:2'ZIP27[]?]]_J'RMXA]&"/Z\.>!RUG*5Q/A[]&'WV\[],1&G].]-@K)IB@JCIG9!"X9J6HZ+2ITQ()]0_AK
M8Q]T`R@%3![C.+,\=\^.S@`#'WT[>-L#R^!#LP1$:3J?ITAY('B-7$NUZ>>!8C[E]L]N(?HPO),IA!IZ9
M@6<,=$`6U#WP`G\""$1"_&\)NC,+ZU](+YL8X!35@VS^;Q5HV&4FN++FRNW"C
MCV&Z&<>P^BE+='GQ(YI9">]8RDL42LTS-$@11%[#J*3F$O/8D:YSM#]N##>*
M$]C)=+*0[!,8FZMK-(PAAAG"4I*9.<6KP8X\)8:I[&DZHDRZ3A)?;WU=[\%?GQH
M'U)"Y9B=3R_X"PYI
MB4WW69;N45&&L6%=BV;`3`>SM+ZE%,Y4/LH:0'D+-@P!]3F!X31GE$YX]`+=MXV&T^@,V\E
M8LF`=Q>S.\?:S`S"T\;`E^D`S(`^74JZPC^H),1$67%61*`'?$IW/)
M8A:5A/[@LJSH.#N9)NHY;]IM,P.9>L#)`5/UAGFX/-+E;="73)XT!A+6/C!C
M_&0CF_B4;'O`N\N1'=+-3\-4K(R:S#0#DE*8R?%1\(EY:/SN
MNR=:9/??>$>O[X+/P@C?,P8;@3;`$AC"R)ME\>B8V60WG92W)HN"/'U-U2XS
M`170`Z\L(
M-)Y(5#5F59!H/IEH34-0&M'6MTSBKTL236"HH`CQO.&D8,J*"N'Y`8G9=LF]1L.QO
M/GZF>_OL^LBP9FXD6$+'9C.-H4H0B8V0JKG%))Z:"]G7GC*`&I52\%-G6NMU
MC%:S[VY$LHJ&W=`G1EA0T%X2,:)0-U[4OJ+(;1C2)%=T$>_MZR-IO'FS!O2N
M.22(-8(Q[&8]FXOQ@0IBT=M71`6;WN71:[;39O8->FJWVQ#Y6?"K:NWHXK*'!)F(3X8R&D@IPQO=
M=CE-N^4P^>U%
M/,J&*U*/DUO./]-?^BB4Q;AN9R',I&Y#*W6-#Q)X6A8?U&]K"Y;CQ1`3;4
M7"ZGLN%U(L>*[EC=IB3A/N&Y-(NWM>=$*@'6T+.6W&`!-#H/@RT;^78.HV:K6L;&Y)M\_$!RJ]4/%Y?R6X*P
M$5HB;U@!J%]#@G;H-TT>-@D?I@+P;OQB4CT=5$`-$V2JU%!/HY:R&UPN$V<5
M6$H!UHB1@A>L@$;A&MEGW#9UDKYE$BQE78!)E2?SC1PU!8F(B+0$/YWM9$`B
MK^3['':#21R2C:@2^<9">`'3:+2^;0_W.*`*#IP+S6+/W)]$/O$-\>^E%=Z9^L)O#!MS7;&CJ-
MKVQSB)C(LC0EX(!60*N5NR(*DV#C,U_@-)"N[*\;$&?/%%?-H)8%HAOD8U;2
MF=;;9JLAP4;T^6$`-$V0)6%2-8C!A
M+V5GQCV:B,,J?)0BJQ$9!?.MP`3Y1_J[)',DO1M"_LNZ\5M_ER22C!X.;HC?
MNA'>%1]X%T3@/DE+4R;QJ,$`6.#/UXN&/I#^,_M]FI>UV!#+D)SJ@I@RB&E3
M?HKJ8PDIC.O9I,1GL/WSS1-SR[;H%LP5L(I?-**TD9VT?0=+N4UI!"!]W2X.
M4NA0)[-:,L$V7K%IZ-#?]L)@(H&YA8.)EK!5!+#]`XZO.,+A"TL+?[O=AA?W
M&-V=SJX7LL1K`7D+?*"HHW"[``U0&1;RBY73L!8EA'O:-AM"I*VCO'G$V[>6
M$/3ZCM$%?Y\M>Q'!,2LS9SE?*"!*D4W`_K6":_Z1+D?>IJN1T,@2O6F2)>KZ
M0$\E31NVH#.IZ+9IN19N:GL^^E$,7K--'QQ%UB](RR.T$9@R[QA&76'3";Y@
M+7S)#-8$J@`/FJ]GHN6WX@:K1:O6_)3`2^H:K?E!R@V]
MQ^<0;[UTBGW+:U:V)N=0$&(J?PA815#X..
M0^_IPK.*Q`']*_\G/IV#T`U?T?M8=\Z6]*V#S.0=6NQZ98AA6YRA?B`_8C=H_=OXHEGU_,1&53:MW"L$-]`
MV$H]9P^2?_=W7L2GA7CW,0BQ]^Q_L&-9"0\Q%U%=
M:@0EK:"T&:N0K?$B]?';K?4RI.?R=Z"1Y%7>6;Y8)N6@//9A)4-%#$*YFFQBAO'"4K=O/A*_;,W$=G`/.NF0(?-(>1V3C![$2Y;$`Y=C3(#(%R]3)D+[($1;',9T
MZ.$'I.%?'GY!T>4I\G:>&U+F_G;PM@=$SP2><7AR:1;P(TW"S$B(O-T,>
M^)!WQR6S=HV@M9E7^8H:%8J*4A$5RT["%LC*&/UHM9E1RV]NO#U0EM@6Q'*6
M?JXH$.@0;V^+JK"PKCM;-:Y,7`)-!-VT-9I)>?R9H0-O%.^T$)M9[[16
M(AC%15G!$]=_+=$@W>BC8U)*AM@E8Z)=:HUP4D["*?M8-=H:QF.,@G*\T',KZ896W@-(FZ!(SRAM!O!5T&Z.T
M'7::V5BVX@$=PJ\KYJ8?L;^C]I[=5WJFS2P%=`WX,N2[>\+.@
MVVV(6505ENAWA)H(_Y*Q+ODSE<38&(=>L.-O!>S(0T!^Y;*_Q:'K1^Z6K[W%
M!S=FR^]^$-,S;\?+CLC$QPA_(V]A\BL^RJ-+[NS*'5%SZT8'M#\&WZ+1#R)K
M^Q8UFBD=+69GC0UWB.C!S=*QAS)
M<7,K:@TT!F$3@BS(+9PJ]/;ULQM?0GS[W9.?$10_;`0^116`"Y2;61T];U\1
MET/Z%"+)>'_2T2RG;-8-K4W-!=F!#%%TB8%1=X!97+`56-+)/9(FWPYO^'34\,5;+@`,X!L
M40NXO;V9S^N03$6C@NQLB9.+-S[`UFB_L..W!9S`\)7`$^0D^P!:N`'7`Z4"
M*=9`M:8;L++B>EI?*Q+CM93ZS&+0]O%$=51K=F^O9VS#(2QQF5D,(+2N"*S[6&]6TQH<7B=4>LF*B'6"3!Z`863*/V`(C
MFN+W[WCW[/G/MUOR)YX]S(NVQR"ZA/@1?X_?$I7^5/CT7LH;Q#]09M$K$V+H#R`F^Q"HH-W5NQ\(VK;`#T2*\R:(N[
M[@I8S31=S0+.:1>;ONQ$?I\D!,]41*F.](]-\Q2FZ=4PVPB?0C[MB6[XM_B)
MJO]E)N7^+I1]/]8L(Z:O_D^?B.5L?J`IK"R[90
M:J823^`N]JY'F>;_X\8?O_+;11^*Y#^E#/HZB1QS1BTJ?`0>.1M'!
M%LK0;1ELMWZ]7BZ!S%/(L'?GIYU]04>4*)F6D(EBMA$F.[G"[[._QAVAUU[
M'/US6\/VGX/X/8Z\9Y\>Y+R-DB4!@3\4!]9J;)1R5JJJ-[Q@ABJ[%1J>3V7I2(P&[*JKJL9%/+6TIG@J(
M.C'"-)5.U8\>Z"JVZ25KI67:^6:SFM2/%=FT$MW%GNJRLWVKR\"E9*O6C3^[
M)^@M[>*C1E"0*P`RJ):ZH-6D\:%0#RLQ%JH.Z`Z&"&]_
M>0Y>_L9KE7`H\']70S&I(
MB8KW@6T:2O6SLGJH^D;%S/&[E8:`%/_UB>"OSZH:\$>RJBT/J0;3:K<2,U$&,XZV
M0:B0:[39!;HA_1`<86@N/F@0R+D:X)"8UC%,I9B';R=;:L@=WA8P:#L95,,K
ME6(#5.O0$*&T:K/9P2SL&H')L_[@4^#SS6:SK$_F+#DGKVI&;6'/IN/E@#/@
MQ@]J1]O0.],.XG[_&7^[S1+/?PD#G_QSB].]K7_A^'87G)M2"W62-2I:.F@(
MK+J[6F?+A5DC-/<3:0;E[:!R0VS#F32%DK9,H6]8MS",TB(L].A+[HKGB[=S
MB6RV;?Q*RR?(G3`>=GO@H8SPSCXUQ`/RC>N69#6`-\?%>)L^P.L*DTUV3Z/Y
M1(CQ1#0Z+78J%K,3',53'H;A"0W3"AAA'M(S"\RNV1=`'QR]+=W!WNT\OE![
MY^^#\,2F9I+3%WV%C3Z;[*HJ)#J7$V-\@06;TI]:](8_6W6'BHT./31
M#OGD=`373"NN$3G&C%M:YKDC^,89,FS&F3_W)95\CMW/W_HI\G*Z'"DWLYH_
MM*!RB`_8C]CA.GK$%TR/UT]Y?%R^DUQAB\MF\IV-SH3'EMTT2
M7+-NX("="UF-"T>Y])&*E(&83)OE=?HR93>(_
MW2QT/`;?Z!+XOWEF`P*H4P$DF"0C0#Z@4-S(6*DM`%$QLLH;2*=
M7EA!2WI=4*.FS`$?33@`S$]ZO2#@J%Z!,#91*0!?1%9@9^HF+,Z)_JZ4*]JE
M?]K=QGG9!O\KK?-.JRF_=2,/RF5]A1NDN7ZJ@P-_*6)`WA'3.\W%6U1I\\B-
MB\5#`O,,&X-C4K(?B
M1*RMXQOI)_3+B>V21K]'=/3[(8H]NNSH/Q>*\-Q^.!.
M$Y+T(&$V/COWXRLQ+_?Y()H9F7+^EG02[[WC)T2>33ST[O@].3YC!WZ',7I(,X@T:DJ"X[LC8CR
MDM90L3F;#^0,Z9X:#0J=8_>AG"'](R!&G>$S-D5V)1D167;SNF;:?.>&X2LM
M(<0NE=_O?PV"W3?O>(2Q9/O;YDBQ33=H$#L3`0>FPM-,FV1&D\JW@/`TFE[E
MMZKA]^,9#J4SC=;7V:O[AQ^9JJ#`%C`3S(&ZB8AG'[SS175#\S7,3_@%'V?I(<5W?XFH]4PC-K-\V,N;?&N\FWKUK]>ZMT+OV
M[BL9WV,=[#[H+!9=B01_1
MHB,8.J([.@7H%)M!I!V4-F03G^OS10-3&_.$,O?J!')#$P."
M/*N;VX+3R8O3(L&_7ERZIX1[74WL*-(@ZW51&!SGHOLXA1;9/DC>ILV+HT/[
MJ4:/`Y\JD$1NY2HLKVBBK4U`89*]V/F@AL3:O#LAE7\+@C,/XE0SM
M/OQU\$47=UW'[NACW=?,1DC7CH,TJ0"[&`TB7K@
MB!5=6RE';-H"2IJPC,;Z.Z"9P<8VOPMW]?=!&VTI>L$@8;4`OH6K&CVIG:98
M?C#L]TQ>J"+')&E!M02'K>A:2*D9NY?_!_!'GY!^B9#)02E(299*?%!0%1ZWH=D3:4KJ71`\_2K(:V4!>P[BESF12IU3395G#
M;,-X1D1SF@)F=-KK0"-"#E3VM'9"S`JB])HQ0J68I$&8CN"`%MT0*-8IM'H:
MJ=T7==K+/6'[I%*[,T1,USLP1NO[HQ)O3[)0Q>O(BH^#$("^\!V7#0E@TR
MZ(!V@#ON[
MZ#W>'EUZ$QG8=TE?,]GQ2)0"`T=T52.3BE*Q5M!\?U/K'#VVH7!2[6^MB!$5
M[1V=PEJ@*>2?1D]I)H]:4L/N2P.*HLR1C)*BX/@47*U@*+]464K@
M%;O7#89R3)W0]`7,R$S7B4&V83NNSN\9CIJP&\Y8VTP5,U='XL7D)AF81$T&<
M-Q#W/,3!]D\RG7QP7Q@9DN_39].FAUCS?*6L-#BL1;OPV@L>D',C]=5OSE^4CNQ%\>3^$DPK"V/LWXXOZ6IHI/\M&'=WO\T-:A?35,&)7$&..OL%*0G$Q%]W3
MR1.DLSO\>4.EU.KF>7@(;U39MNB+>U.^@!+J$`ZITZ:.\!B9&94Y0L!_BL[5
MS7*>[\7X$VEQUVW@"A)@D-G:U0,'K>@Z#Y?_AC5@Y:!2KP-J-,:D(T/F@_E+
MJP\$S-4G",:F+#C@160%]:1NFF)CP]](ZZ?+Z2N%_K&0`_IW?X?#S\0%+O'"
MD?C@B._/.'1I?HE/V(V@>]#Z6C%(>)IL``-"=,4GF?F=LTD*>)_K1]/`
M]$;1O9\-J_^.=\^87A=-EA'8S[N[&)^`O4(/L>:Z@.-LSS9=^^+M(Z:`!60_AM.J[,Y=QANEQ?GJ#KLUY#`HH8_AM3J#
M#QAJ(]-V;]H2\'3/;S(_+0-9H)D*0CW4S
M7UHQN_L15*`(@WP'41`X%),$U*[CN`@%5W/*86E
MQ>.H`9PA82ON"KN'4P-X0\I?O4+#")7!R4'*:5#7CDQN7_&S&])3[1^^NR?/
M9[]3&GEU%FTO#38J#@:`Z((-#`!9^ZBHP!50IB['=>%1,T[31:^Z/->5IMU`X>ZZ&Y._4!9T>3=D-IS]MQHL8KJ/YH_,7#-5"BH+X;V@6ZC,Y5A)E$3_IF`LM1'=4ZE%K
M]5QY&+=U4,G0\7MB=\"@*MA[=
M]2VF60=R8W>Y)HFRJ]9@&(ANP12J,.7MWJ"L990W7Z,)D*\GE&G&C,T:GP']F=Q_Y8/?#]X1C/WJ^ZQ.2/19O
M;?N[K%;9NZ,;1=[>P[NWKY]HRT31^STM@$T<2!1XSHHA4`)W_5<811I0QQS7
MCFXL&)NBBS!4V^0^,%?C!F4:HTSE4F(#>EDAK^UW@W+%T=,K2E6GF1$*RA>J
ME"3J6]`5V/RIJGT*U145/U3K=[HM?:?B9WI;^$SWAC\3M*>R^5O5NSQK835R
M1VJL(Q+TR(8B:("NG6#FQ`J_@WO?^AMF.\BJ/F"PB2X8,;!1B;S2MAW]2@\+
M1=0_FGDJ?-S#1@EE0LTT0&,RT$F81NP;S620%UJ_WZL30_O;YDBB33=PJ(FN
MZ>3":7=J'7UHM+U*)07+[_=V$HM&Z^LDT^/+CTPY4&@+Z`?F0/:]?^-=Z59W<24$Q$N*HLR1E)*BX+@57=(:FWD&&\HQ53H3
MNN53EJ)B1*=`V6THS]2I3F/(C$Q]G:A$P(,=?*V;%`/_/8Z\9[^\K570!Y.T4TZ]68MP"'AS"(S42)%AN\D?"A[80X!`N$;"?
MGB`9F_F4^4)$>XH>5N.\Q%IFZ=Z-GIBYE^C-L^N>_T:Y\&_X&$?I;Q@[OIE,
MW\RFC!^37Q>TO=^SHFMO:?DUNGZ&_8COCX4A^>J83;U_R9+^XK_=WM-S?<
M/>+O\5NBY9^5D!NL%4G,E'D94J9=%14`15UH-L*
MQ0<3/1!3!/U!54%,EY$)R+Q'&3WQ\C>TRA6ZW1)`>O&K"<89&(&4CP9UN.81
MVGU\P"%5*<0'HA5+:$ZO\^2YQ[+K/1_V>[R%SF'[R#4W@NNN-;BS%EUK9,VB
M4KOIO;-B9KS\*AI*6K=@B#>*RVJ4+'?8K5&'04>!HWBM/BH1FU=/KP)\@(`6T91K0[43$1?PN",P_B5\."'
MOR[>F0U,NQ\7[R#.'%4I*PL-X:7H2F/:&NN+L_9L/DL^I'^J!)=YY[;D';O/
MEP_IH#H'Z@V@D7FQ,\\(B+*CV_4SYXL7D58^!J%R7L;6EXVR8I-JX!`675#,
M9"/RC6S+RZC/T\S_?R?BQN2
MKWM\+?#=[[Y[(30(384#%&&.BD`*@F-3=*LO:Z'4R#
MK`5;*$JW&^I$U3<81N8K)080L):"0S5S%SVWXF_)]#:Y;?`8Q.Z17T?X#;OT
MB=UMG)5+N??)\YV
M#8POT6V\LG+TB"I3+[W"E2J(W+A81(CEWTNT1$Q-6C,C410Q35%150L8VZ*O
M4"7[RC>XEWV#V](WN*]_@T>3WP#:9UCT(>K=C15P&+G/&HOY!=W=.+&@O:=\
MP?X%%R_I_>;^=Q#^BH/GT#T?O.UM2)2'=GR*PDSV8TJJ@G$HNF"7M%6YDLJ:
M0WE[B#5H1>9(O:_N8$R)KFHFC9=62.E^=&&\0Q6P^5C#
MB/ZKLKK(>[``')G5=;&HF+)&-%.)
MEOK9*J,?N+4F**8!DC(JD;II",I(,N'BW4=BPCOWN+T@:$V\&I>T@VA`JM$3/L9"V;*$?W0X1$E*3.^Z).]`7-+A#E(A*
MMUT@8X3,H
M%TBY#.93W3R6[T!G)S?]Y[L8GZ!3/X@`@PS6KAXX5D4WFXK''`H-(-:"#3AB;J>!H%]$4U)&Z.8H28FUA[,-W^D]19J&WV,=[
M+X826&_I!MFMI^[@N!?=,V*-OQ&LVB;MR[)AI4K8P([C^:]&G6Q,T^`]20ZV
ML;P'9M?Q7"B@WF%#)-6'QT=P6."4-4)
M1L:?JEX?@B[OSYRXL$$?'H"EZ:J4#.8E?,TQ)(J7`,2B\
MW%%/XF\+^_2T5%`/3#
M"ZNMU6-.J";*(,^H*`H.4.'UA:PEQ)NR>AXXD%MJ-%5SBN5SP('\(N`S7>$R
M-LUU(1$1]:E[6C,=_NYC-_3Q+KE!\?8UN5$!8\#VM\V17IMNX,`5W4=(A6<7
M;YY>L[LXYHE-H^E5+JL9_G8TPZ'TI='Z.F-U__`C4Q04V`)6@CE0.Q&%V#W2
M*JCTSM:7(&)$J%R764&,26H"*@D.5=%E@KP5?CR.LQ#.*/.6N9=`:_/R*
M6`/LT`-MPE1QSP%A5E8!%V6J1)S9+Y)0/3E-19@'5PS`&G^0&\"FX^'$_2Y@5ERR*"M_F;SY^
MIF=@AC-E34U)ODS$OLR6"$"[5+(-Q""#C8@&Q*[0-.U(FGB/MT_PAXXE4HPC%.)7L`@73BK
M1IS>[Q$7;S50^_N``36SU#Z,ML1O&T8;':1W7,M&SHW#E^0)8^-9UCXH-N;.
M9#ZIC679^Z:&L:K*5X>P`RH/'+VJ6E`=N@"7QG?[7
M]7'QV@-RO[)"J6S!NPX/SB,^=.2^07A
M!FQO88=A'.!H_?[C\$L'G.?LH^S&[@/T"&]_>0Y>_K;#'A^;DW]4A^3D5YE.
M'[UHZQZ_L*7=C^1WU86OEF='&&8W:@")NOEFM5HL*K#CDA`7A9BL<0&FRRRG
MBUE#8P84810?`"^,C04Z!(3A`AH-FG\
M^*]%E3CZ*_:/%_L<=A_\'9V8-GRFRG,CQWVI=6B(3%>5J$_8D8B1KBJ,$_-=
MS7%4S1DSWH615(UV@>7CQ?HC$=OP5?B?1XYLVB@X`JHT3E\V%\6*JCL@U<>,
MV&(\5`,U-\[$HOD'-_1IY3X"%Y;:4;*4T/[XB,OA,B5@Z[Z3Z3JAZU0.Y;!%"1FJ5LT8+-A;"*?&_71D];DR
MC-A!8ZJFY9;90EO*(5?X.#_=_NWMSS9Q50GM3415L-H&EGKO'2_R8\_2IPTR
M5:(#+'"FB]E2RE6))&O82MVR6;*CQ]ZSG;'4S2M:9PMK=0B_TDW<7K4_SF1R7[-A:+`SW&?`7[D0_Y:;9>Q=2H4Y5(-[*YJ-34]TQAB
M-R+?VD>[*I,W4O@HFZAPA&9;IU`?V3#^D5TJ`CQOTQ3ON$L+_A7-\;O`C_V_`O1-:GE'/C53=$MB',=\KFQ\3N'0+
MEV4+9=:-1B[*X"RQC:*'[*:?Y$]959JF`YS:I5M)7(TZP[8)9LML3T>-U?(_
MEYLWOQ$TNOL*K$BFE@I
MY!0E&V<8)7V!FY"+M=/&+A7ZN(U1TC#*6JZ^8Q.Q#.4U1BJI)Z+,$W8.2#J!
MJ)U_9+3[SWR(LA)@3J]HFY=M&644N;PK#A^F:VV"AR2])P
M[;%BX_9RBT:W<7))O)&M0I+I'-XA-T;'X!L.&=4835>D$U>J9`-SMI[-$8`Z
MP`V3CI)&WT3II"=PQ7WJK/.-E7,0,N1G293X%]QB](3C;QC[[-W(;Z+8VZ)]K3>N/AX?"'JVKD^D(_S]?'0]FJ3XZ96UX@?^#N\NI"%Z
M6;RXM[//MGS&WM$9^D.H\;,E>S]#.X6Q[Z_U33YSFS^]&"C?$.KA.%O';?'M[K\O26K:'OUW791EX[*J@L!]F?FB=5V\@G/6$"JT9.^@JX=/&,RYJ6&A
M8KA'2ANTEPIZ.X@1PMTO7W]Y^`5%F23;6:`9#ZII;3^2>>_?\>X91_?^5QQ=R.OW^WQ9&[35I"AI=`Y0T@_6V2VGR])"#$V!
M11M!M!7$FT'W/DH:HG\N;"/9L5TTE%LJ&^9?^'34/.0[!7P=ZQW<9A+D'[YO
M#^2+84I+]SY5_=;?T?_0:L\O[K%U@`\580#6$,6@>YK+617/J73>E1,P,X#3
MO';L'X4VS*)8LQ?*.[L(IUY@2Z/T3"[+[4X7B=@_SAZ=PG#^@JIPGMCPK=-&^#9)6>:7H!)!*)$
M(BJ(1(E,0QC5:"H#YNUV&UZ(A62P><9^Y!KO6J$160(;S"LF$?:`PQ=OB]-[
M;7CWKN#PVR/3@$[S60.??-4S\13\`E8E*Q?W6DM3G@-74Q+O;;VZXBUB!M9*1A'$_!_&_
M;036Q0I@J)F\,N41C67@A>,$AL1M&9I.I&.&;44B\X?M;R^R/[O>WV,=[+Z9#\^)?/GRG
M_Y3>T](DW#8F;E49E@)VO5DIS[;I,9ZD;3[7+OTU:=YBRM3I.GZ^)S\2_L0%
M1X3K^%8,83XVVTX6%&W;M]"#.676`GZ"*V"CK]@]4DX=9D%0K1U[.:I=>QCF
M-LYFW8>N4CVN=XUP()\ZO!)Y1F"$OQ)/7?."81>8]N`RZ!U`@90M':@]X8A?EF;E$?_#/0?1?T7(W6Z#"TT!](S.K!6T#\)L<8_^FIZ.
M#3&[B$U^2M8#HRC8>FQ._,V+#TPNG0V[?B88IT'.AYOG-,C/1.>Q;TGK]VL[
M:W'9!M-V#F5Z*X79QUH25FCG+J&7AF4P:37QMC>L82N%J8*$"N
MS3[`",=8C7)M1@(&-H;+F,,0U\X)NLN@*@%ZV^FD\T\H8>B4#8D2<2B5.Z@ZP)RDM!L[+1N[*W`6$.K
M((.8[,"^KSG>4,%G3A]P+PU?G)-71']'-`G=XYV_P]__'_Q:^;8-SXU4KE/8
M.K3XI;/(L$-+W"=2$!.#B)SQ2WCV-<=1-6>,LIZ-D936]VRP?+18#TZGP&=]
M-UOHC^XO<1037B%S6/FW:GQI7!0TJ`(M8+]:ER'!1"9#,RX4%:0:`X@>2QV)
MI3=`4T>:[10WD'J/QX,5R.B7+,%LT;*T8_>D<&/[O>['3W$L_=X)I;/%\$.(>#Y46->H@64"2?E$0X]W%X6
MA[@\4S#H;UXQN7"R]QS6;`R$)Z?&PT9+[)5!TNB3L=#RC^!X\6,WY',2^5)E
M[;E1T5%I'4JCRW*7D$GA\T5CBY+=K7$4K1DO\B5Q5(YXH>%C1?H_\?'X__C!
M-_\!NU'@X]U=%%T:^@7I\Z-&OD0+*'%65GRH-,3$H50>X@)-8:&_?4[%OC=_
M0NT;#QTML5=&2:-+C%RGXFIY._S>B[;'(+J$^-[_%0?/H7L^>-O;D"CZ*?"?
M/]%L4K=1A./HSN=O1>_H\>GP]7[_/CAY6Z]V=G.H1L:\Q*55=6C!A=6R#&W2
M/,K;ISFL'TG*=F0+7
MQ#X]G%EB:MQ6QS`9TYR^D
MF;A("SN\QV%(=$KN]KG;ORY>Y.69O6YXA=3T,9KUAJM/M=OR"WY!>-Q]([X<
M^];>"!^Q/[&S%LVP270;DQ[EZ4)0_!@,,5WMW[9MH\:^%@&S]&SFZMR3J)9F.^+*H4P[
ME*M'2.E*9[TCNO\*)\.ZH*X\9M7S6:Z>0G7.J+NW>:V4V64*N9C,-K.AJ?*:
M)N8C./LJY^M](3P8)>J8W>NFPCM_'X0G-L]L,.-36]VO[O*,4)BBEK!U]8IR2>F+?S1/C\TU'G(BYI)-SC?#$7Q>/W3D\!S[V
M8^%UII9GQ\2W2`-8;S>=9W7XF!"423%TY4F738ZR3:-AJRFV2KB1N\`D)GQ6
M"+LYXZKP40.(*"H`K`>QW"PK@.!"3"==[6>1([#([(BV(9I$(*C;;0X#@-@W
M%O,JD3%?SR:E6+#"H+,QGIWJPI+%%XN`)W(O/Q"MS'=&.U=+T0O[%8@F82YR`]H
MB:-+&-+MT2XE
MTO+,[4VO[2Z"=BVE2"'0M8.*L-/_GR2#-)IT)1F$IEITKH
MN16:$?HY%4Z"*WCQ=KR"$L\5?:'Y\$2CH4[9T)@5:!3'0Y@L`)[9625""(?\HQOICM4@GA\E
M@;G/2.?\?8NCJ%R12USIYB,_5N8_WVYC[X6QIZRKZ2=SS*Z^CZ:PY>R9,TU'
MU:RQ>@$]:>VJK$V4-VIH\#"2GYR"GTH%]?(Z5+:5TM.!G]((I;^K[>:1>\+F
M;JR71X0RK>01@:;`,?AJV95'LC:U\0ASSR4+BH*#_N;C9]K3&7;4^@\-OJLJ%TI8")S>KV.
M)ZI/1:)$)LJ$)F40S.2IUVKIU+RE+1,8Z$'/-S5_@@,QG,%#_:*(,7CG^
MEMY9\?Y=+`UBA_
MIOO%Y('/A>WCMW3W6#9P&:B-$1ZJH!6)J6'"ZVI0WG;(W;U)WNC)W!D5WNMW1?&O[/5W1Q(@C7?^AFO./OI4-@*8C7.ZF74AT*(ZB.F#R@JA
MMZ]E
MH\O_O'YJ;`:W?GIL^DC72Y&*&Q[]6[DZ(E0[(#!9.TZG670[]UFWZS&B0V7[
M'N)]#J;%C0:77ACVQL>L%L)=7D@A]Z\;HT_XA;ADA@I?H4Z'/P#'5?$[
M`,^5OY=1KBNN.-Y^]UKGH/7G3?!/50MHJ:YUG4FJZ_I4G&DVZ&%>\[*\%?"4
MA9P0:&)7&(;,6Y=\ARU^.&`/D:(*(4Q9D!G)*2P([(
MF2Q$>$R:0JPME#963$U.FT-)>[9`=B@'U28E3S(/W`W9N
MK=Q.`[`%!*X$I*U^,@S)PC'7CR'^ZX+][2L,C_(WS8!1I@_P7L-B(AP8%Z2B
M3*PM(-1@LF"P+#39$B"VA:L$AL(O5HP,2$+Q"1+;ZS!)(1N"E;/$[9D$8J:V*3IREX.A]09Q-
MJ\4]K6RZ[6,9LNHQV`*IJD.,8NGO>/=,YJ6->9QE#YM`3TD%X$QFMJS?P4OD
M&$[DW-NL'",`&/NA[`XU.K
MS::&$2XL6=>8V@*57B8RO"0&60$2>:@)D2(SWA:X.,IP<2R!BZ/"O=/)I`4N
MCH5P43>Q`!?'-K@X:G!Q;(3+3!DN,TO@,E.JQ#5;UBK;SB4LEW--V3&(U69Y
M"WJ+LJT#JSR(6V$J\YDU`/W:'9VU5TU#\VN7Z'16TU4S+K_:#,KN-K'%+S:(T]RE.HIW(N"^[US`R;HOP"H]
MW;5FM+.-VX9C@39V'.IK_7#\RG+UT3I9(3Z0&/)>,$_<1Y\R@8YF?7X4%FZR
M$C;F68INU@Y-S#S_:$GO)!LI>_9'9&M-7TI"X-N2*SUI8M@L0A5#,:K[=_
MURNG^B\$:`\31711=Z)VKZ`''\9%/((:'$T2'ZZ3T=LN`4]?)NGY>
M0A^-9VHBIB?*%$4%3>V9_MOP,=@Z0B;Q!GF9RVA&P*C9;5?(TW">&(B;H5_O
MROGX,73]:$]0<7^)[_?\*,'PT!"W>IV+F>CWG>!_T(DD`987OWT6)-72%43!]E9VL*O?Q"";0+^0)0J_VQ7
M3J),S/!AGS1SG33)Q`"/LBZFS>>F^O$BDS?(Z)(7Y_C@[T8:8:KZ=$Y]FJ2Y
MN*$U1/**(@/ZXR%VP]A2CRQ*'GG"SYY/UU6;_7*%;%]BJ('HO>![HWQ^O\\R
MSQ42SWT)CM[VM2T"F]\UP;Q-&@%3_LR<>E(4,AP4Y^?CD@U/OC49;?VM5$BH
M"M':[B"C$(S>$_)\(43Q@J-B6J5/M&U6E"1_@`S$X]#=QH]$N[>OR=7"]SCR
MGGUX3N)JE:).ZVJ9LT(-!7\B#`WU'-?*D%=09)4Z6LPDC1%937_DAG_B
MF,T-(SI4Y25[?]KAIYBMF.._+J3!XM^^T4EEB-V==WQ%.TRXY$3D4P'[[+Y^
M]/--28E$4;QCZEW\'0Y1?,"I]!..#P&OV;,-HCCY^:;8ZE,0AL&WI+#/,7!]
M3/Y._QWB$2#@YR#TDBV(0_"-B2XXB\F(+MM#T6`WQ)EW
M\>X7='N,@AOVI'L\%IU[D\B%].;3.VHGGE+7(?4/Q'[JS0"2=N[G(:+JX6T0?KG/"J/
M>5W?&_3MX!%'$"8ETR6F1'0(PO@-<82??'O_F?YT0C1&?QFD?Q2-00:`-Q])
M-,PN#":^&NAW:J:4XS,+#S?B_$G@KG='>FF_&>/4%Y20'M+
M^JX+*YE[>R*0\OXMZL7Z"!IS)J"L'FS@.9LXFPR7I`7$FD!Y&UF1^[P55&S&
MU*;1D/Y@^T`J!H\VF.X@WTT,-3C"$8%W[PV2K#_[[X&,TF-XC$L-D,,EK`TITSQ$ZUGS:T#B*N
M8/R@UBTZJ^PV1P=ZN*I!0P?'-++!ZGK80-_(X=HQ?$GGZ(H@)LQO]I'WH
M`9EUCXD#1S]I[&K0K^:81O0OKPS]!0ST1'_FQ.M`_R-I7E_GGTBS&O],1U@O
M-YEO^A(`:^U:&$#5-8T4L+@N"B@!H1\'%-QX)23P+=`70U26W03P+0!VD&W)2=S&%]8W$`1QLQG;Q],&-.PE.\!,5`&NH&YFL-4E(M$ZE*I9Z?`L>YEAZ6T5
M?RC+@M@]CF+9DEI&7H&,U7N;]8+#IV"D3S9U%"RS@"(+M`%DQ,P?=A'@[Q'>
M7XZ?O+WZKESQ52O(,%+JF+&3R0QK'Z+8.[%3^!=NWI%=
M/`[VR*LRIYT8K$
MTBF$M_?P[C%(0T&`C8H<>?K:51AZ#M[BH^GMV1YT>H9\ZS;=7-`FWC%C:508N9J_6,V6&(:3R
M%I=YAK?/K[=,';-76\9V7V4L7LAUX).9QS-I,N*$A`DE>87*`92,XH,;HV_>
M\8B>I;FX@+#EA5!H-^.PNHC&5O=;?TS$^J_5N\
M)\\\NM]AT=LLP1PI->D%G,8ZY#]BYBD(+[`.EX](`U;PBB8/9(MF%9X@IN\3
MOVQ3O]`T?)9DXU./\P:8M[O2+BQ'M_Z._7ADQ_E:,E1ID&05`?
M(=(6*C9F/@O.F`YR!`[RL*6(!Z(!AG^0#PVRP8?OVP/Y>EEB/,BZG^R=\5$M
MU@1ZAGOEE)&;2LLS*UJQ)MC;2*?12!M0V!R%`J0U^<0@FGX-7G#HT]',>_P4
M/V09[R"H:GMW?'0U:P0-P*R^21*`N51$Q:)%R8"52`+=2L-HM%ABLJ)>=S\S#J9Y4CM,HP
M8!H"JX(0J?%&('$)?2\F,VPR#/WH?:?_:KX\(7]^3(M`"R[RR[+I$*8O.O
M5)31:Q(:3'/*IJ6IC,^4D8W"I"W82DAI=H0M8&GN0QI>,`P7%=:=S+*9D!@O
MACL4'>8),)/*L@TR#;U+BR=,@"9=X+SW\RS[A>S!GW'\)<2Q='L`_OJ(@((J
M!3R@XVR6'%[YVO^]7ZSD4,R.39?.N70S:!O`]FQ+@.\%T*V`?$_1*/Q4@[F&@-!Y`,(R`%:`:+UMETN1(@M5`]BK>`
M\B8(=K,#268.\@_E!W:N_Y&V;@="%6)8#%.P>\QB]2XO?]'ZQ4O/&L%>00/H
M:,R9"#!6D&.ZW^MF4M;)A3DW\"WPH%@RQ3A)=+/.-C(0@$0,^IJY6LHZ">63
M0;EP)%#Y)%T$C%WJ24D]V,K%9KY:\*)/7_&9*,T&N\F`\"[D^1Y1B2F7
M)`B3=4YM;XTYLFG6!7H-?Y,<0D[$,5"6!:9)\@R-=K29Z13-I&!S2P*-#A=@
MT5@:.$#\8@190;"CIZIEWS/[\YA821J%1,M\LYYLDLO^Z7L#UIO_X.\:PU]=
M\SD[%,\3/2951@?4_R%VPUBS!;S.?5;>?D@CVOE'77VG+71&HY4*%$O\4;++
M)%'&%ZF^`+BZJ6CR%^Q0"AB!0!GC9=K!=EDD&IL/1*#Q=G-NQ[&NCP
MHG5$1N2Q4Z4VP*$IX$00D?O`*&S\>J:^Y$_\Z&[;EVU_WP2@VK0"'L^93VOH
M\H5Y*-,_.LZ(7"\"B$(\XQ)/+[WHNTQH'>$VJZC-+YA`',"/8`4
MOYQN*BC+95EP842/@=8AJ2'21-B16F\2+7=9B?-/\C-^LHN1BV(FH6%IUM*B&B4*W>5"*U_A])9A':'MSPV>S:4"-B1(`7N1V2/N;WQ!E3D6^!2BXWT2%2;+V&P]V2)_TI/C-G_Y.U"+ZM.9L4`
MY^\:&FIU4KX0S6>I\J/U-/7(*'4P50MU]2N7\[W?W*.4GC#0EQ3:AU'5:CI9
M9KW(Y8S(Z^:ZCV[:3T?4OK7'Z&8"0]?C`:.__^(LY^C%V^$`1;'K[]Q0N(\V
M5I\AB/AB;U&S5A_2'K\%+4@K/&$$:5G[X`^]*B*-O&X2:5VTGXZH/0!I74Q@
M2'N'PYB>[8Q>_2W=K]Y??)9)R#UZ\2L]&4L/P]YNZ:FD!_(([?'B8!L864-O
M0$09B15OZ$'BQ0U=/\;X_NGH/?/T2K>[G<>=)3SQH/#>Z*@%:`4+IZQ!6BM&V+-[QB&F-KFTG0RW2R:\&7!KIDF(QN`9ZEP6:D:O-0FV:?BE./13[GO.:)IK+5#2QAU9Q2V;#VF:1UTT>%2:/I
MJ2)-0N+YS^]QY#W[3*6&":+LX1'[5;$*T!)U:=FO1`HJB#$Z`>QME2.QRF0O
MV1Q:Q;ZQR7P[0-$X\)0_;A08*A7;-YO9K`$:1L>7&BR3P&LJ;0TGYL^1IUB)*FS2#WW%\Q!#^
M^R\/PKGN6$#6`(0BU'M[[DK(("F`H2]^,H%V4T&B)C![Z&RV[,T$28M70P3J
M'G*XAX@R?#QI-K5B?S#TY(.2`Z^$#G[S_"#TXE?V%0F;L?OT12D?_KJ0/_^&
MXT.P:\_K.JH&=A-.5[N`J1R6LVEOADI51*F.22Z,BD"N*.*:#I_FMBT1K)W?
M8EGX%D_#;IXA53VH,8F!;`["X39].,)2;,(ABI&MZPNQA1CGVT[H3.1845G58LA
M81=5,5IWQR2:T$B>,=@AP_7G#>-)9>UK-FW!DA4+>SV,:X2010M[LJAK
M0XZ%O=&_L!O^[N]P6/B=PA<6OVX84R*EH*535_5]J&(44M&(R2[^VA[$]32=
MYQ0E-K\2.1&Z,$/=R\YLZE[5N&V#H=Q)AE')BMF^Q3Z6IZ^6/FT&V&
MT!%B-\+O,?_OG7^[W087/XZ^N*_-4[VV]\;%2[,VL&1@F\4T!PX3A%*)Z,Y'
MJ4R4"#6&'VVV)J64$[/.1U"6YAHW7F$5>/4!CHJJZQ`W?O@N.1?.G0/?X='W=L
M7OJ`MY?0BST=IYRNG`:UY0XBVE"S;Y&VAI#%K
M(*S9,PS4!7./7(*=O:D*"IK1#O>B'?A_C_D(CI;:>T917=$&%J:+
M29J-7@C@5"9*A-HRK.UN*QO6\M,0JQ@B;`8[Y.FI5-"*^"/&NZP&XVKKF-C>:80Y$@ZIH1
M5'."'>A)[Q_9\`&`!1G$E4PN8-&BR;EJ:R82C1+H-N03T.X"7
M2.-UF6DQM"`SVXTB3.:4KK]#1\]]\HYL'/:?=D&T+;2;\=KL/TO`RPIG7TC'
M[,>W[)/`PT/PJEG`UA0"9H:>+IN&FTE1=RX7<#3UMZSKPL<
M$5#M[D(;(UH)LO9TI.SZW_%=A]W2)Z1;38\!^]Y;8L/OB
MOK*,?6%(%PE:\NWV%CPVQGNI"UQG62XG!>3S%A%O$O$V4;%1]!CP7R/6+DH:
M1L66#5+"6![C6R[>\1)[+QCA_1YO8U;E+@ZV?[YY8JYQO[GASCQE:`%3C4@T
M.%K3E>5]Z"5RWY'F2O7!1:<_=/^#7P=R@^!*2_C\YXZ^V]K7L\OJ(=3X2"=R,7:]3JC(3>"N8S
MD2B7B;[H.+31\1*U1DL+XQ?YYS9XQ1J*U56C`@!
M4XT8'E
M7DMN`'-)-@1U,5!$$9U;:S*@/+LW8[-,CGI:8$^%$Y@ICJ/'=8W*,_`&'+]X6WWU]
M:(=.TUMCXT>N"W"S:[.:%T!$5\`2>2@1B.[05_1@`YBTV.HTVOH3$?FS<6"U
MAV4-76V^T;3$7BA;^ABZ.TR7_;V(INT0P@;\UOA+[&TZ04)J.7%6DU6:2[0@
M$3&1*)!ILY&;(26;8MBVLQT;'JYE1[Q)7[U387&,4-72^,#GCW:Q#L
MY$==Q`^;P$I)!>!19F(C)B(?6H]@LG96ZVJ\&RRJT$E]"./W5[X]*6$GY5DFPDD'9XR8@V2$%'\TIEDY6`,E%VPRW2@VOKK??J/)
M8CSWV#I&*S]K`A5%#:"#_.FD"@DB!65B#(.AHT4,"=2.4Y,=HV-!%$U"(-3-
M-HJ"?P;AGW?^ES#8XJ@5!I6'3>"@I`*POL!F59O04S'TTDPBR#`4NAK%L,!,
M\7QTEILR.AJ$426$@\!T4WB(8KHNS=/AOB,0?68];4OQ^K;71L9(DS*PP)K,
MEHL2O(:YQ*-%[779JHC-/4&:NN8T(($:!5D[5ZR`6[I+O2MOWOOO7@[
M[,M/_P#>-`@Z@3[0*CC%!;4R[K)3!D0J2L7:@;Q^]B8WM/A[/%-0>K@HJ3-@
M$^8:HK0)=E(7:=KX35N+WAW=*/+V'MZ]?4W/H:UL91Q
M1U'C;Q%W4A1:=7>V2/>-LV90W@YZ>D6%EE#:%*)M&:V;/+13I@U.>6O4*6W[
MT$-[QADJ7$;:ONY%(84][1Y^-D">5S.XBQFP25:K^NG1X$:*96[Y"^Z,Y[
M!JO^#NF0[G1GO'YP9W[HR'+&ZSXJ*PO9+>HNTLC43%U18*Y]9S/IS@ZL14NV
MIT;P4Y(`_2E&A0EN(MF"':V^*!'/`+MZ5/=HZ'?0JBZ$L0>4WU
MR)7?-CCV:=$-.HB?KVI#GAN4RT94.$JEVS'+TV=YCUNBSOCJ:Z?'=
MQQ[$`&$M&KN`_#@S/K_08K,`X-LRA]!BM0C3V
M3)0`F(7SB^'IT"=7NK'$_S3B](0V"#R7/$F3U]-WS$P2%+5UFK0=:UA?_-K%
MX7ENBY;^[1,9PT?Q%SJR][8TONF@7D0HD@?'[KV$:@#SESGS29ZV[L@$H7,N
M">WHQ);F"/AV\+8'%)>2VT4\4V5PB:/8Y4GMR&^Q2Q[UJUF0MC1!2Y&3V:?SAU93Y/X^5-N2)+<
MAQ'>WMTF>9D+%9".M#&C2UN-\5;J%.5^,8:30W#051QG'2&&\UL#1XPAK$-&9,
M:7S#-&;@"0+FF_5L,F\$C=D,*7KL4:45E]TATZ$M[\\!R]_VV&/
MHX;\HPH6\BNBPC/IX/S8BU]OOWO5_D3XQ`A@$+0+"X[5:I;.-^CKB+^/_J`2
M1@[X?C8X"C8,'=T-<4*C66JH&>)_9AN*]+.0`1S=9:39N/TM&8NV;>8#WQVU
M,P!H!+PW/%^NB\A(I+*I2$FN!9OPNLWF:1N+4LQV$@HA6NXNP&XQ`KW6^E2F
MRD\IEU9:3ISDI-O@=:/:,@1TTSU/$&!+,:B66D]6E'(J*$'P]4"77>GHC,#M
MPU\7TK6U?R+):V9B7:@,D#97ZTD-`*RO*$I$7*1Q8/0U5(P6=@,G*LC]#_<<
M1/^%L-1H`UAJC%,)P!K<92/JJD7(%>,@?]TB%*J5EI\NTM()`#22B4(BW-3H
M3;_M3M7VJX5F-9A5(%IVG&&H)K6,VV,@>]`,_)+F@4DU-@M!MY>(,-[-J9M2
MZ-@L*Z\MCR0)(DK&VQ'[\(ZI]H)1+"@1\'0RG:VEF+"IL^EN'5\?J`/D/^U"
M"+#O$/K!,&(^NE[X#_=XP7F.TJ^84E*]W*7RVV:PU*03,./&W!%T-E0N8H*+
MB78ST<91ILGNZHC.$J1!XE0"NW;'F,%@[#VSTV^T&*5@BZ?IP5&156T>%DR+
M:9K/*I?`BJ4:V?/18@V'!CT!75Z7?WI%CT1E>C"02C6+&%E4EY#BI.L,L6K[B"(DXSF8U@.]2>-909&V3W>[HG3_X7=
M\*/W`H&-FCA#R%)1$GB!9+ERA.#+FT)Y6^A^C[+6$&L.T?80;=`\2`=RCY/<
M+@RQ2R78`MPN`)!A6]USEL/_SO^,O\>/W_#Q!?]&AM0&D0">70E/R)'2
MD2QD+K6>,?2-%HJR;&4(I8YPXCCK>0]FN)Y!0B?'-!+!ZFJ(0--HH>K"ZP`^
MB3IMT]D;^*2U:P&^FF,:@;^\+N`7`-`/^)D+KP+XCZ1U
M;5U^(LQFZ#,5H=5HLOL'G;'/FKL2\*NZIA']BZM"?PD%O>!?-(56
M`5M>0!)0:$E.XB>D&\_%"1YV%#H
M*QZ6FO247NU_L]+;J2/K%K&5)UDF8`3HHZ`I-C.-/:8EDJ!N4ML=)K25MT
MQ8RVECVW,SZ"&]8]_')W:GV@8/W80.X("A'8.[G3+D*0J-LZL.PDS0I":-01
M6$A^Z=0.U8H(H8D-C`]@A_5.980K\,X-:J(+2X;!/4`#(PR`O_54C`FBJ'31
M^>WK9_>$[_?O\1[[.]>/!2,`I3='KRD#T@L4LK/)8ID48Q3?"*>":91FHH?L
MS46T-HS%4XG%;Q.+[T>R6,I7PYC=6_]J'-E9I1`FQ>>T;!62,1BW`LH?BN
M?>2BT"/.9I/I0I%>AAP>]"`89:O5*,;(H&@HTU5HQNB`IQ..%1AGO,',ER-I
M*/;V>^7!3.5-:_BFI!>TCYO/(&R3B;9K,-/58@#3C&)Q1Y[I:C:`93+1]I&+
M$+#MU")PUDC$TF$P4WO7/G)1Z=NCUG:G3#%@JG$*V(-[P)LT`
M'FC$+?-`4/*`V057U=`NK[&JN(IHI+K$#/(RVN#?VFR(,PON#VY
M1-C6\'ELA?B5`['1:_;@LJ1<2XT?!0'&$2I2"YAO:9)?19?`M(S18>L%=\.L+7S^N[H>J?HO1>=O(A\@^FWM&1?IAF$DCV9)M]8,"#@2\XMQ^\!Q?,1T'L>FM;^YW[W3Y008_L-%&9YW0A6%35W(_UGG
M4]$3?Y47TV'!F68C)(T%6\^-2;_WS8L/*"9/1UF[2:]!`.PRC=#6C7!D=OHZ
M@)_$/,4:8H>:F`=X6RAO+%EB2YHS/]$=P#&,TGZK!L]+B&8H#M`31F3J
M>+%G'JQ*';*IL9HW+1AR)`I_(;_UGHZ8_E7,DAW>-SR_2\9F+EX:\&L;+T&,,M=
M8A&8R\&N".:B5^T$\Y\@I`E5(YI&X2F^]7H$3"N]GB7/\1G\Y!Z(:O=Z>SZX5LSXI/?J1!
MI$GZJ,C7HC.PRYNDE3'R9HL02!M&M&4^L^8YQ&GC*&L=%9I'O/U^K,%\=LFB
MI^"UO_GXF4YJK?'>FGJ/B7P3$YEOXLPI7L$IA&D\.]*N:T9B8)%409FK)KL6IJR*KF
M>;P6TYR2:6]"?*1<9VQBWPZ?;(K?9KZ9P07Y9)Y[_(JIH=Z1:D<3+336.FQ[
M:=2A0),JP`P:JU4VH^?24$$HK6N:P_,=S=0F*PW(NVN\,,
MFM@NPB?L/\>'^_VC=\)_Q[MGO+OSW[G1X>,Q^,9^GDH_,_C]43$&U`I8A&H^
MF:1PXYLN7#*=:U/9B`NGI7ZI>$3E\]^AJ2GTZ7=`Z:38D3N`C(!CZH`#=X#'
MMJ`/:$\=P'YG%J6*L5T&K)('#6*WI>,K/3,^!E7X?CY9S,HX,]V'=3.!(>7W
M\YE,J3]Y)\]H&5-AD`@"W7A'A,-G\CUNMW]=O,BC$ZCHUM^]]Z)SD/SXGN]N
M7\BG?L3?X[=$F3]E'ZZCL#'AT4E%X#&BU20I>I>T@HK-L)7A8D.HT!+Z@[:%
M6&.F4#>T9Q@\WUXBS\?LW,GIR?/9E-WLF+(7`$J([N%`/0LT'K$Z"O9QZN3W
MW@O1)/`;5FG:7AE]J:99(?#T/\DMGXE#6>"E`DVMVF@SXS`U&AOC\T';S?+7\S)@#\F++
MP/7)Y2Q=AN4OFYZO=C0AR=GQS8KYJBA(2J/;NI%&@CGP\2O?'_EX\7N)F1'>=B0:%8!E.[5_1,B`+R9'!TLUI_#9,AV:.C3X3$BH`K.Z8'5A(Q
M-\4JCF8F0+T-FA8-&LN>EGE/;Z,;
M9)A+)/,#+ZEL6BF.2J_7BK30N@V!#(`LE)OV0W5;OUOHR`KH:O6UTP7:\@06@1A6_M?/3YA_>_=
M=8&X0__;ZBR+0'U_QJ';I_\5"C`/8H%:T*P#H/XWDV]K_]O/`>7^EV('!5R@
MX7.TZF$,`*S45W8#M5OOVRC(2N"J]32+19IX4!G`MO:^>GS">M_[*T-QA^ZW
MU5N&4'WG;X,32V0H__K%9\;%8MXR\&C99%&`&7^;91LQAIQ.%CBI!1Y[VU@7
MWDGYY0C*O^#P*1C&]].*\Y&;YFUC^4[)KTZ!CZ*#&^)#B--$4#D75\1>XN.-,$Q6[NFN>+MS-=
MBK=KQ)?!V\6'1O`=^#L<>`A3^.28**VW#]R&72^3NV5.PA^510*1S\U[(H/7%[.'*AK@J`47F!4-8"-(1/^][/WP_8S_"\D\H
M>WY<7(BU@(Z?TA1!14'I,#P190PBO2USL@1]9L?E&DQ99O4^#`.[&205>#>9
MK>70Y>LZP,[O3=:3!3]ER22@1,2XQRI[*3^M
M*6_R,&4O4WC.EE\>?F%Y@]^YOKL3?HE1SE#*8S\[/BDS5A/V8AQ])&.-+X'G
MQX_D6?P%AW1\__Z"/^*G\.*&KQ^\YT/\^(W\\O4C4>;UWL=-..TG<7Q,]]$7
MQO[+55K`D[6&%K_,4-(((JV@M!FT)OAR)O.IH9/7H_EBFON"-H=8>X@U*'8,
M:Q3Q5A%K%I%VS7+02+YR%.+&((_IX)$"Y_5W[A#\^"W(U?C?%Q^3)KD"CP>/
M:/#94V!&!5F&.1&L*3"JE_-%F0V=4E33)M`TBDE$SS9V,.$0'I!PX+>@[@Q*
M=0GW\081;=$B]AO"/PXP0FSA/&5ND+&=HC,U\AP)$J8"TR73X7X;!Z2U3`U&
MMFTTUT&4&9935A06PHO-Y(9WCP`/$,,UUIH8*RW7TY@`D)^=9RK`QQ@U)#+M*,DMQ4#V!
MG;0SGY893MI)3\T.XP:T7\QN;8.XM#E[R&T`USC`T+"$V%3I0,)K:HX\A\K
MUO!&\)6C$#>6\&%7'I'P8C?GZN-'(ICI\>!])Q1='GT^$*^P1I/!)_EC^J\]
M8!RH0[01QNRO.!`"D^FJ2)W37Y9.>;*3M8:RJ=)=,GLG_OK1A6CNH_1S&PS/*K/AXJ$ZTNE^MC7+YK4^?^ZER?
M_V\+QW839H15NZ@*#/?%VBGRZ*PRE"@O&3E&UQ0']D*!-)-=8_'H4["LF/S'
M-$F?[7ESTDQR%:#%,@;U(HT*"
M/=RJGP;IFF=9D]*2*%T=4&!!16E&25!)5V!43U>K,@=N%M)E];D-!#B4$X3\
MQX[$U$BPNO62MFD-_PWE(PF$%-?!X_J8SXV]*1:,*I]P"_8;YR,
MLRX%>*V?.L3["T;\/@Q"+'W[+^[
MA"'VMZ\T$=3'8_#M[_0ZO3I"P=(,8A:H(RP?06E!O8KBI"64-L6SJ-'&$&O-
M/FCK]XT4[/O$.?C[]D"$X!SVJ)#6P8V2U(G4:2S'@U6LH(B>)IY0.='<^`_W
M>,%ZQE`-XNRA,ZF2P*Q.J]D:SEBT,<1:NY)AE`[O]!]'[:G;7IC;K.>>5@PI
MT$N+]VU@D#N?A!B.XJ_D6PTZCM+1D$'6Z:\^,./4IF%M)E4"42U^@.'3J$Z5
MTYCW'>_>>*EO0^K;ZQH^Z0-Q$[GI^EHVT![+3%.K1H^#)+.DC?-7:FI9/BT[$4;SM#TDE[)]?>
MX.&.>CP7CF94[=*#H0L5>+^GY78"GW2J;K@3NE7XW.B8$F@!^LC.9CV;<6P]
M'C#RF1Q*R4?\3#F:RR/42P2BW26D0U`R_$!G0ES![I>1`=C/2@Y$;B'I:!,I
MB(DQ`WVKXL7XBK<
M(2^,.1R5J@&;8#E.=OTF@T0N"Z7"#`T\=1A700CA3UX/SVTP;;219&O4E[0VN-](>-M,BZ_/9(N`.^.KW?^GM(^WMTW=CV-KYGJ#QN4`E+M?)-TCWD@
MG;E0Y*92D9>*-=,?ZK&RP@6)4)1)19E8=.\;["_U6.OT^J:C=J8`0-;ZUE8G
M#4$9']V7(*25[OZ!PYU7*^$*>\4P5505`H_(YJ)1=!I6M/+?MX.W/2`7[=,6
MT`MO`GUS(Q3B^!+ZV-20NK_U$OK()*)$I'GFZ&$D8XV/M0_XIO[);6$-&29E
MC"%VSA!L\;N_5^8,*0@ADIH8:Q;%0B
MAUZ&\H(\?IWA+28(.0QE%"%SD,#![KZL!.[XQ
MFN^39XC@\,7;
MXNB]]^)%I`.3[P(U/S]VI]JD#6R[PIDODETB+@NEPE`JS="^D2;3IN9,:^Y!
M-=GG--EGK+>$H"KK*-L]8:*/O#]C_]']_B_LRNHIEYX8L1*OY+T(19>G_\9DA!@'"']W3Y[/&-)DUR8(EV)?
M5K/:4$@7*[E^"B+9>$_XY+@A7FT?>&(F*Q6>B4@K(5,AQD*^AS5.V1I>!!G]
M="12?C93"[F?/4N1/8:A*X-%!/M-N
M3T_&T9[C=#X&KYB,E^)#&%R>#^R,QH?O>'MA=R'N]WLR(`DI?]!=4)K_AB@X
M\E*S?A^*V3%-49-)IG?6$)-M8G"LW6K&HE^:HX;N-[1]?G-#:C6"R$?7*JXT
M.BKYA.E!]-LHPG'TB'N#ST!Y6(
MF,B19ZO:[73ZV#GZH*`Q*H7C@P;_F,=7]/$27T+\F^=[I\OIB_O*%M3>7S#H
MJS>\;0QQ4IV`5_K6T[40>A'B@E$B&:6B:1HWPP-O;8:SP?@C;=<>L+6&J!QU
M+2ZQ&'[\IG=U,[>K$/O`F*@&G"%U.G*\:_!=>!
M#=TEUUF,[<HK"Z!\O_]$KVGC]UZT/0814?L1?X_?$@7^
MA,5%HP!SX&U0"[8.O-K,5Q+4WN\1%XYRZ>@/*A^Q!JS8+-;D`7Z/L$Q37^EY
MCB-Z%YQ.7GQ*;DCM/<8W$71A7S6#W]=O/B5_^_M=T^.(=C+H^()HA)L
ML#9?.]D",Y6*$K'H,4")8,1EIO_Y@PHWU@%JMMP16!ZGEO^'>PZB_TKMOTG^
M:Q:+*I%4$M
M>_$CH\-.X2+V9#.9E\%EYEIY3P,*$\BZO'1CVVM:
M^9JE.XZL8$\B$15$HERFH1Y3HZE.9JK13A0:@J6>%>8&/=TM;XOG8_Z0))EN
MZ&B;'A^]BY4K`V/C^60Y33K7!!-I6M1@V-6982U>JQ3JGP3ISW6E;4-]^Z;_]2PI?,`$"@"O#F\63B",!0J(F=2S0.C7Y66@>3AJ"3
M0$;J`,/P`4ZG:L^:`8OB7(+$CK,08,2.F5)WBPJCIV/@/[\A#9Z0R^19`A#(
M%$EHOS$XO`M.YQ`?L!^Q*LHTRT\QO;+WF/_W]BEB)26;XF#@AL9\\F7OO=)R*.WK_)
MW.Y7U_,C]!,])(:CGQ';0'S!7`'SG#4*]FL$.,+WLHE-"_5F_\^%A,7^U?.?
M>PF4Q:B;-8*SY7)ZT33]>AKY@PQW4UC"E;2G&;
M9DJ-N(90I+8O9!,WTJ^MPOV*4:TNW@+64U4:>)!I,YVV4AR[;-!A@&@HG]WX
M#ERFQ'7)B>N9$]5]!!6*J;[VVC)!#7=HA*H%Q+2`BD+:S7GTU7
M*QC[*(RR[!I!#>$Q!T0WN^9QDEDBUNT2&`.WN,0&!E;B&"CU*GC;-LXEG07V
MGGV^Q;9]?0Q=/W)9M?I;?\=^.K(C%5H&A7T:LX2=NYL`7-):+!8PRDXT0:DJ
MJ*`+(LJ@@C9CCA_[,/DHWN6Y(PK.<3-I$7*)XP+9UE]OY[S@\"FPW#U3F']N
MD$\"*=BCV/V.\'Z/M^2OY,?_]=-TN?CY!OTO9[)@3Y-?3&;"HC-?08QVT8Q/6:SULU-%0?[Z\D2AD>;=QPZ
MV+S,;=Z6;&ZMTFG#V*#K],/NR<0@!S)4!%L&81U[_I/I$MCA7O,1BD&\YC13
MQ'_:3@[ZSC^HNM=IB82$SF,GJ,
M#_0U;0DYZ3((F+IPOFX_'KY;&&8$V7#(O%T11>)?YHN-N2_R3JQ,[%VV*6;
M1Z#K_VCL;(:8?R1.AA/"=-%^RT$S'?^0/*SF<0T4?`4+WAIY8"QBO4).
MO?4:&F0#>MYL"-OB9"O2\=V/^QQK4#^!M$I_Q$&_J)T>K/
MJD/;Z80>?LC&M"M[SS[H8XK^I*OVK7\H!JP+@AV?-\4YS/-*;)ZJ[ZBPQNJ
M=L(.;@QH9?E%9:IHB?)N0R_R
M_.?W9)KN/_/MJ8Z3V#X-63"DH;F5\\[OL7I5\GNFLZ`;*;#Y)-U"FZ[6-XZ7^&(8,E/I^JNMFO3$([WJY
M#GS;W)DZ[=/%[C3W`_";FBO;J,WRF5XO'`Y#6I;SU=^#(RVTGEM3R$(PP%BM
M:W-6L5@W(X#I,R:K]D,T!8`FNI2)K9B'Y$J';X/[&)8SH"5%26]/];A?.F8\
M=ASQ_K29T3-#*V>9#'B=YV=\LI^TG
MR'OW'C],MZ'FUQ]F;-P9ID/RVR`['Q,[2_4=("5BS%F:_6Y2V-
M1(C)VC;=+9F.;@EHEZ*K.8[`'-/;#T)(5'<T$M,LJ4O0$&;U;D_F`XU]%V^B4""N
MK1.3OF"F-Y.H`V//R692SK60Q$JQG*')#JZ_<0*,CV8@<>QI7
M@(Q-N9&;`JW6-\I=H*]S_.CYKK_UW..='\4AZXW>!2^8_#+^S?.]T^7TR?OK
MXNV\^%7*N(L*R=/*DCA.=8]^,=!3
M#^/#`@EE#:"\!90V@9(V4-:(J?Y\\POOH-$$Z1(4&KX`ZN[FG
MQ*)9-.4!=O%W=`[U@_"F@'LZ4VC-W\;F8GSOX];?L9\^?#]C/RJ4\Y'$OJRPJ`BZ/IQI"9";;@`7%_JOM38,8Z4S1LYDSE>'%ONY)F\6%3ND3
M+2#^2`N(?S*[>M\A2IO0IJD7:IJ1%UK[U)H[7?RPD=FT2!78*O9Z-2L=1REM
M:7TRFA.]IU$2#K`A\WE/RYQNEHTWN6R"47GJ*/>$#=WI9V*LTNBR^(+!SC-7
M`UBZ>+V2]IFY+#NZR4ZV%1!SI+UC3'O'EKWM_J:!DJ[W-8VE6G^D3=G4Q=>1
MT]2S5PT?I$-O3I]1?]!T1P[/J3`GK2REG;BQM!@];)'UW6:37_0P2-9EVY#@
M0H81:4_=.9%%$U)S#JBV))O**KYK!,\`S6`'M-:S>7*^CKW-]JOD_9F)32F]
MIA88(!=++\W31\
M:WAI[`F`5!5@58[);%F!728NW>A(!!J@PTJ)UY]:8JPV;6QR@KT/^$@:[
MRS:.;OW=`PY?O&WK@?:&-XQTOE)]H!>"EM/BJ/JHPTFGYB&:[U%:@E3O2%H=H(8`O;DQOR_B[.S_&QR/>QA?W
M2!HFQ!._OCNZWJF!"Q1>'IL6P*I!@VL]X0S!!3/D%$6C5#;BP@VQQ1!F3ZTQ
MNYE$AK#=4;#=&+IC$'["S^[Q`8,%209@H`.LQC=$JEEHM(9=$,B"3J`,_P3=*
MF-A^H&)67K*O5+#S;SZ)D1COQK!W3>U-C(KHNRC,9.XL05A+=$J`UN@;DWB[
MW[_W7KP=]G<1'&NREPS@3*P*\+C,/#WEE&&,@"J39Q.\>IM9A];6C0YHEQE[
M=CTK(-8@]LMN]QVER>":/G,XEE+PNDL5:XEZ3X@T2="D=P?5F`H76W\0KX,78G\0'Y[
M%MQ^[R+`)+ZD:@&+F:R=M1QMVS_/D$>=,(LN63G[C4E$TP%B:KY.L,N58
M^A:$Q]TW,B$AG8]/-X!#+A6YB(36V?5?TSBX84NB3>G38TX3Q#H`UWMF\TD&
MMU0,XG),;T+VMLL1VV5T9-\<7J5A?)/]NKI@+]C=^[CAL$SU$0.=;E$!V$7G
M%=V,3GM;FI-P:NKL7&?MIP7MR?M&3\!T-H(!\.YTPCN/3/-)_W2[)TTA.C?B
M,X6["-V>R?S[A?1B'X/C,?A&>Z^/7K0E_>&_L!N^^>`;66ENPD>Q[ZH[1B,R
M'[\%;E7^
MESUD()YYT[!)`>EDU[6(Y@(,Q[2R%=6H;K!B[+@N1XPHLHO6&HGM,-ABO(L^
M$OW?!?X+#F/OZ8AI*0/9=VIZ8\RHE^L!Z_QGRVDZ@DE$(2H+%82Q0AN&X*#%
M/*=D'@U2M"V8MZ-U1(+]'M,#[48!TQZ&)?2T.<C.1[0%1)M(QN"\$?.X
MU.D'`5*]*+JPM;I@SY!Z@TZL,9:U@Z8KP;38!/'*9H)V[JO9Q;PNP2^#--"O
MQD'NT1,_'M$3W^_?7B+/Q[0>+B1P9&^:`K18'V!'LYHX0ACG0NED.A=K`7![
MV\O@FKZ)=EYT#B)^C.8&L7QUM)^-O!W;'@^,;'EW"%DI()O\91J&=PE-@FX]
MM+]G"()";8`YP!?+C0B`J4B]5QYTX*^OL4[M5#;M*PW?=8"&I`QD#4XQ#;'?
MLG''EQ"G5[=N_=T[]WB,[O>W+ZYWI!FH/@;A@WO$>1$\0"STD&T(JITU!J96
MFCLK$9SS9E&A778ZE;7,SIBE;;-;3[3U0IE(\[@?PW.\IE#N*XN.F.M$E(Q%
M>KK8--,4[GX52R+YS[?;V'N!
M#?1ZPHYD=!UC689FL(M,X_9KQC7W^X=#$,8TVV9Y'E^8O]^'G\@$`A`BW<0:
M0G8798$![HBAGK=(.W_6)F)I3FM+:,6%,W1/DPM$%C#`P![C20>H7)[8ERUW
MY[UB:3V-#!.2931$:/-(&KI!/C9[]443OF3DTMW[IMF&CEQZ3CO:11ABD3;%
M8(M4T]5R+F(,-B6P?Z*@T0F%8$T!6)1-YIM\'YG*H/UK(L7L*:%^)CD%DWB:UP>#:5XA,55!B,1X@T@H
MYIIM/DTD?WY\3-2U@(W!-O/%J@2,:D9DL^>--!@GAX@=QY#:HDX`&)D_#*%&
M?%F;7\1L[D[:WQP726WZ`)EY,YEEF)(F*#L7$EVO5IM`"BUJHSN0%XHX;8]E8IQC`)K
MZJI[RRK4_AH&3>NOC2_9@$RF"C3MU'H%P"*3:*9\I38K\Q*6-\B-T3:([,18
M*?I`J"IXPBH9(4MU9YT08\?5*JGCQQ-O,U`%/F2D0/8G#[$-1XZ6CU@`7!
M[Y/YDM)2W3[CAILJ#:_8`#NB"/"(^&0Z!0#NLWC#RB#.U"PL#Q9+.>C8;AQ+
M$[;=7DZ7(\V5AW;X'.*MQX[8TK_]K^GD9K-TV)O_:W.S=C:6]>AJ[BCVY^;W
M(EOA!Z*2S`-6D
ML4IB%X1&H9>L0B9=^FK;*FE_TP8\YOH`QYR+S00`1;[H:7HK1:/)\)5>.[98
MH'$+`F358U9A\?5LD9]*8-6,SU@:;/6$,FO%PLHG(M0V(G@QD2
M/T2Q=V*C[0NW[D@O@UF)N7I\@C!7]8T1S*7E6N@Y_?LSG=`T9UN4/S\FOF1:
M`"M#+:?IS=%4$+O*@K@HTTD7-1CG2(TS"J"V8"O!IMD-6G*\_9^+&Y+O<7Q-
MSK>[QSN?)7RDK'#LC'$POV%K`>K79\$1QF524B44%N&9Y9'>EY6^=HHP1%&&04GF1BU-^O6LIH,?7G$
M\3Q,)>"IO>5T`06@Z55D[797P%BT]J????>R\\B$^F>3;].P\>]'H0=XNJCN9ZB:#O!8*Q3BNF&4L5!O7
M>4I/C!VN\.4.NF"X;Z_8O?X(2*SEI8P
MKCTV9BQ7&@>>7IZNTH`F[R,NP'18=[?$J5AB-+`E05.*;J&IID+_4KX
MX%,01?=^H=0KFX"TC?25)(P,#*!>L$A;K=>3'#-4-**R$16.[OUB&6/$Y%LP
M]A_&"0QNO%#;-GCV,U=$Z"?:"(Y^1D')'Z;QJ!CA5:@J>=`,BMEWH'.4^_U[
MO,=AB'?B2HNP5T;%J5P18+G?37I^M""+YH%(I>DI*,CLZE+>6).%ZZJ%P1Y=
M?.R&M&A@*+=P/*"U!V$966UN,04E,N\_\G.W]_O[M`CLES#8>S&E`):7`C\G
MM9??!7X4'+T=#0#1FKM.P2/#LI^ZP+/`J_DF!V_>(L5OUB;BC?*NEJ=Z2=JE
MEX\FI/-+'[[TM/4^8:4#3]M&]\.NEF^8I@SY'
M:SDG4%6(Z/'B1>R?=ZRR_:/['4>U@PW%W5QE$6.?(%!4$'IN93;AQPGJ_6S6
M`/V!-X%8&P8/*@WG!`D3YDZX']L)S:4E/.RF];B=I*1V666XZ$):)LU##V*[.4\8.2`WC`'5Z,GQJJ@.^%5G)LEE<
MLL2E9Q4)*LS@+`VF(FQ>,5LL9S*,)^U?S6_;RE]
MJ5U7F':A+ANF8)JL[\!8UDS"-+F@`U%9-@V#X%R5GX8>8K%L4K=1A./H-^S2
M-*6[V_BCZX7_'?6_=(:U(^'#".OY#82IE"MG4V
M5J.F65"[22#DS-:+Q4Q&G?$!LQQI>Z(%>J%JL'1I3$=T2I2D>4&+#_C(16&J
M*WJBRM))#Y%%GGGB2J.(:HW.!;5_,M$3
MD)EFB*E&Y]Z)W6=#"#D;6T5QKH
M"YM94\RKFY6+FOT6A/CQX!:+FTD7HY1DC+J"J*`9L*+)+!^8%LL*UFH)TA80
M;:)45=#8R=%A'+&N.()P#2T?6*H9>`S\9QR2SI*X(BD>:'9EL$/$EQG#]S/V(_FF0.,[HR*W01/@#8/-/!N'+,(@T0@65DM7K$))(*.M%2XB$^$`KR7C`_#$`/
M7G[&,9D(N-_%,\(AVAE_,4>_%2`X.)/%)CM\Q'5`J1+HIT*+*-'C9X:6XA^8
M+JBD3'I8A=]BN*%5`-C4V/T^]BJ-4;=.Q6X5>)7Q,="I[-PZ]>C]LNB=`;Y/G;XV5')X?%V@P!\^FVY%./^Y15:KB9.TFAANG->CDS
MN.@R''46UEF&^H;6=A_"?!"#M_8C="4*N1UFL\ED+NM01,S7JSL9-OO%J/V*
MLH]'Z5T,I1>QQ\MMGPHNAG/ZM8:S_'/?1(V-V_(EHN[OS8_+)/:(I._GZ]O4W][^#\-W1C80Y,S3)-,0DRIH"
M!X:3Q5+$([PYQ-M#K$&4M\@/;J.WKX@UBEBK9N^?C^4KI^2KH.:K-Q)?/8%]
M98)G.F-+QC(=/X'M'!.5]%88M'05;"G;B-6%#I.25N^%CIIAE%73FGRKI;-L[HR7>BAGZBQ-]LZ*@J\(>8LDU,0PAZU'NC"
M7A0-S0'2?;KAG2/G28NI<23?)/,YF3^,;?GUI(EL*["7!PV/I/S8VWG'2TQH
M^H'>/607KSY\IP?X?N442-^NNZ,V4A)ZXX;.ZX'N&)\XU&`@I@45QYH%?8&^
M[_>?+R=:WR,(V?UW/SAY/OWISA#CV-&"$,':H#"]([DUF=3HK=*_DQ
MTR#)))'I0!.^"(8M]NWZC^Q0QD@T"]*67VBG?77Q8E#F*CO(1R<OLQ>[Q=]^+@=O_@CU7OW.A`__\',MAX<8\T311!-[06=E]AYO:K%%4%;CQLYBN^8_5X
MP"@JA.66-'7#_A?AO,6;)/W1$[_"2_\2OZ(HFQF6;N'[K^CBAVD%;M*'9_]^
MIM6X?SK2B[TCI_`9/]3:(R-=UGX
MW$91L/62&\TA48&N0=BP"]:1@`3[8)UBS!ZM2HK>O7TB+J8XJ6Q+`26MMIL!)M4Q080;8'R6+*"
MPS1`B:ZHJ"S*M65%*0J/UP2R%6BJM)W,:.%'XJQ*J>6-P*=)2E`VR/^*^?62
MO!8A>HM]O/6F9J'R)V^VB+T4FC\E;?]LL)C:J`X3=BN)P^X!#DN:
M-EUT;52?U5@\XWH
M-(B(6T1L8NE+;,WPHML9#.L%5IW'
M;(U=!51:,[>F)3[O_"@.+UPO\#A9_J(1-,K4`>;#VT;Q%\![O<R>Z"#^
MZ,6#%NQ^#N*47O1GS2ZG.EMT93V+9EUN[Q"P[W07@B/RAQAJ9V#+&)%NV!NX.+B2`53ZY":8F(*L%W
M3._H-:E$#_I"I@DJJ&(9"8WM549/M(6(5QK&T#YBSZZ7O@/]WCI2V?JK=A#9JJZPT#G;!;"J920RAH(+%$#43T04\1^
M(AO0HXS&G*IF'V+YFVB*(IZ]Z>WK.W;QE^7!
M!B[@=Q1I;LFJD\+0==G5LKYZ54^)=8-JB;-8ZC[>`X76R(M@O5A)L![6XS,8Y%O`GD`'<=?!LRJ+
MO\(KK%V!8':W8$@7::)6"[8/AO22-D:U9D>A,^7T)%)K]A?XH?3L`/>C^_TK
M&7=_3:L3NUF68/@,NXM((]-I=46!)XMGHE)S66O%Q77:("JW:.&>PZ".XAL/
M'FDBQ'2=\RV.OV'LEZY.)941".6Z,?J(=SATCVS)X4(`\LJ]2!G']LM7W=$F
MGCMW_3"&.>=T/@:O_@\,7;8G%*E6+2%6K0LT]34A)N]8(=2[#RK5!7)TD$90EQ]3->+4;UO?^7?^SGOQ=A>7IA_$WK/_+KCX<>CAB`Y!Z3]?%09S(ZA@
MAE8'-PS&!Y/-5,2V3#M$U4.Y?NC>1[F&B*F(J(Y)W>+DJ,8='3RE>J)$491I
MRJ>M3%>[1IDV?9'\QD/1M3=)U2F:Z#7?Y"INA=%1:'YJYH9/>+V]1T206?"G
M`G._"XANP?%(9>5#64I4KO]J"6^/QC\2.A\I(FQA^3N?;WQWB6(RR`]IHL$PV%VV[(Q2TM5!A\,ZVS+,V[TM@-'!9K,1Y(HO
M$G1!$91HPHO2I;J@3!F6_S11ARTEI@I9,QXVXE[&MJGK]A+7/15OZ<>K"H@?)1]F32:W_;,OBYS`('Y0=K1HG?C_C;4S&N:]A+0KH'O2JI?&M+1AA$I@4[06'CU;-Q
MW.8MQ<
M?ZRS%'/G]Z`ZPNKO;::+65[OD>:">K.C9QSV--9?LIL#$2NN=:;U=%S6(GN4
MP&)W81"(R;HPW@W@[QHET>(_DI==$^_&T*@WI3@):
MO?:6GA8A$R,+CMZI,##*`4:X9`@#\J+=&%:84\$E
M68EJU0*AB]5&&=ZF^^UQO,)OA#;"_#K@#9VJJ/G0+.#3B_3W?B$C:U;[^C+J>3&[Y^`N8$3HR92[PP-!<5$T^S^]Q[Y=R%>>UTW/%4:YYK>`\51[=QCSA*::,6F&5Q[_"I@WII9VZ]!L/OF'8]`():?-H.]
MH@[`P)LO!7GI4T'6P*NC875$`0PS@!]1I$D@4_>$)2@!KV$(WC"+%K79]WPR
M%W50>6#9L^[0QT(&G7=N&+[2&0/!419!ER8(L($H<81M#%#5T_QOC^Z>@]
ML[T7Z.!/_J891,GT`29LW$P%JWV94%20:DW'I,'B>B?%A08AU&(#N&N+60G^
MFMUE%H?"@L7OR7^BF.7C2&X%*:[8=Y1J!+^==(66`Q*=_9;6S$X;98M:Z4U$
M^Q;VAW88HP:9DVQ)3M$+-V*>Z.%7TQSR@BESO[Z[A"'YES)9-+]NB!6:E`)N
M6:WG@FEF)ADEHJV$N";K^8`ZKX`>Y/9;DQ%KXRS+8[2O,QP:Q)V088X'ES
M1__JVD"35*XG]=Q\.99L2&G:R[8&GK`F"6DO`VLC?KB!(Q^VDR-,!>T=-FJ>(W-TZ.B=SO
M:::?1QR>:/EFQ0DY5(P1T.8410
M4'\ACF^$>D#K?:\%A15JL>6V16'GO;5F&14
M^Z#EZC[TRP7
M?`FIIO$KS9X0W_J[#W]=O/,IW0]M#9^VUXW@O5DIX%&WZ5QPN"^5S))-\"R$
MF7!;SOAIL[[6,Z>2;Q+S7:CYXP,:%M9B"$,K.IS`$B0HJ$[8,#<0+\KU-C*]%!DC'>6S#HZ`$$\8E%VI5D":,I/?1O'H?=$:R`^!O6Z
M)N6:*'":&*!%(V2BW0[@E'XZ%ZQ&MF6\SQ5"CX&X/E.ERI-5_&32U[)L^$^O
MZ#?WOX.P5A[+#D(;#-ABVAOH"YDEQP?\G*M'&9._?4W^"%N;49!DA,S`
M^L&Z_]G&$6R^)G)0UDII2$"K2R0/6+)Z,X13:@LYC4YA)\,`7AF?7I2A(:8-
M11=?`1V`QT&*TNRE!;4^=;9>"!9S%:C!GE')4-[A')%YA(\\Z#+)?74OBR?X
MN2)&@`TF.CA6\R*PI(QO&))OQU*#D8%+_LP7]Y7^CF6#_H)#IBSQW/V9W5+_
M!+MA-E"3YA:8!S$(>E5J-:TO1_-TY?4"UZBH$^MQ"P\F>O$$[S>HH!I*=+/B
MUIQI9]<975JKO>CLMZ^E!TO.-N-KZ"*Y:8?7!Y*&HGODY?E!F5FPF#_@=[:X
MSP(<8!R@N1^CKU*Z^C=Q1NRGS)[`-.GCT;HG"PZ!FO3S>+V2-0=1!Z/=@3LC
M>Y95.AL%7'OM*]_,TDL_K8'I&A=KP=4]#=QHRPKN:$X4$]\;*/&]$1"?90N^
M>E`J6?#1\9UL9+$/I_,Q>,6\6M@7$ND'\@0]%Y1615,\8Z.I%8L835%W""3G
MF_5L*4BT*^6U5(>DEE^J!3NKE]6OL_#8SM@>Y;6;4V>EHG?VO%H0I;
M=7*[C9S%#$@&B5II"B+8(F9J5QE\YRK8Q^M7BL33MDS
M]Y!*Y6:9]KIY[4\N
MP!#"NIO!>\I#$,8\I9J7!](-BG+SCE+S1L.0))Y*`!$ZPDSTL^-U[X.3ZU5'
MR))G1HW[0LO`^_.+17H\*3U#RE\WU:MT-,&!FC!>7`LBI1S4-4L-1G1^S\0]
M0J);]/SXD5[7`GB0>+*8EZ.^*,D."/2RK0B'&[AQ(X-#'G0"H,C\81`TV1'L
M]UZT/0;1)6R?ZT#>'!](3?K`6-AQLIN7M=L*N5`;YBU:+2[U.\5;&?1&0N'N
MXWLW=BU`'"1B!=AK=Y8-*"RX_Y/D5H':JP9Q*%((QO_K=75$)[XV9.ZL^$`V
M._UM-H7&ILAM@J/<8WJV-BK-?<74-N](6R9-25-(0UX;?>NB72EH[N#9.MFJ
MJ,5:02B+,C.YHK5:*F&2,2UMV7+0:JZ$1*KFFMMF@$,RWU:`>F@,TA!.+E5>
MM(PX%*9FLZD2=0PY">U*'LK6@NG#R)1[$).!%&)T(JZ.5"B;V#8UKZCW,0BS
M>^)?PF#OQ72GA29F26].!^\"/PJ.WLZ-\4YU'J&M-8-3#TTV`"NX;I8.F"0^
MTLKMV2U_K@S?&629G5()CP$J:F3A3&=\%XM)Z:;NX[W(QSR3`MH7O1PK>MG4
MW$HS`31-Q[1^5CO(DZ77J-BE3HHM4HR27:-NP'R.Z]5,3F(\0TF]^[>0E73Y
M0LXV'9UACCQ``&@F!8!7S8#]2+6Y]7>_N>&?F.J:)/^7QHO\A5$A+%,#>'9Z
MN,2-M>_/H?[CF(_BM"
M9RJ:GAZB8\6H'F8(\T\5W:!O!V][0)Z_/5YV&)W=5V+/D3T=XB,;-FZ#*)9+
M(L.G*/!]S-_ASP9[Y.Y>,"'7B#[R4W0A3;A$+1)O`3OS?X/BT-WAZ!!\XP(C
M?/)\-XQ^_F7LU12-WZ6!LKA0XX>_=5I;X;#?3'*8(EL4EDI@#M'$9B?OUO8QBJR1S^+Y?11-MD>_FA`IYQ`I$[2Q"`A
M&8Z341-KM`#]K8T86]?I5EX/E^H,DD^
MC>CV$A^"D%Y#%7[90=H9G5P&L`(4U\YZL4Q.@3T>,#JYW[W3Y81\)I,N;D9,
M*B(BGSW?/1Y?D7LFH?^"=S?(QS%;__1?471YBO!?%SH>=XF^.ZHSAX:[^^]+
M=MF3KJSB-$?,.3$B0A=_1UIC:[OI'R.66"%]!)V)#6,OEYK])IQ,`>D=:7;'
MQJQH7)DLD1&AY$P?$U1LUJU.YM8(D?]/R7#'PG)_B>F5("^*+BQ[;7P(@\OS
MH34JS;'^@`R;]Q:#?2TCF\SMUHA35[+_^4H(SHN\&-,NU-OB+SCT@MU4MG@2+:Z:WCI[DK$:]P-EK*NG*3'=#+#T&K+.%:Z,DKC?LS-YT-9T,PTAC,=UQ$5E$1,2T35S/)@9XJ2!Y,!VI71X:#?@M%E)N`JF;([
M"VAATJZ?YX=DV@N!SC\Q[4_P[O8%A^XS_I4(C]^[,?[H>N$_W.-%>KO$$N5^
M)'X&F0P;76W6V8F1;?Z'H/NR43`JF*RFFW$)G6OYXP[$.W\%1LCL[1^5
MCL6@'X=P19_E1Z94^P;@ROK]@*2L:0"WFBQ''H976?M_Z%A\N*_Y/XW]+1N/
M=_JP/U;_\3E@Y4'PCI\?&QU;M?9_"/ZO6`4\*;39:#N=`./W3,WDU.H@Q,UW
MXC[X.S/DW?U3S.FGR%WTY![I4=4;A/T=/8C]BMTA'?80NV%\;2Y;2%SVA)\]
MWZ?[L@V.N_[.3D*FXW1FPJ_V@W967X/C\6,0TI?,H:.DQ(_5;15,`XYFY].1
MYR8YR_Q!M46)NJ;RZ=GZ30HW,'YPSA5PPLC$6_M"/RC[VK?*I*+:C\74FE8C
MEBO'V-S#X**2+7,3G5_Q_YVVZ/3F_SNC4>3\D?OQ%3^P?>]];TD1@U/VIF?^?4OY_JO/_C;P#B`L=P`V0\-$?J25C9YN]JF\W:M]MQY?KG^JIE?;D,474[U#AD46[Z:68B27;`"
M!9OEIC31Z,%]-Q+RNT&ICBA3DBXR<4E7,HD8RO5#=SLC.WZ@.]4>Z;
M,_%-Q'S\TU\7-R3&T,(%I^!"QJ,_7]\XOQ,!]Q_*=_A8]G54O^'X$.Q^)T]^
MJA9*'RRBA6U>=>KG$7NK`;ULI*-2=?6HG93.B^J?!]K>^7'O'W
M^"U1YL^QX[_0\(_44V5FP=9!UNME,M/Z2*LLNML#JT]W@^@\/?;VWI:#/-BS
MFG;L@"M;IZ=7QD[!CKB+O!>P36EZ#)8_?>*`OE!`>S[:NL?MY>BR@@94RK=T
M9]5-=E;S4[01VGG1]AB0-W]!K+@D:\.+D'N,`BXQ#C*)F,G;%ND(?Z?_IG]P
M8_I>=`B^^>B;%Q^()O3IY.X;^0/&,3'4)Z_3(GU$&G7T#2M`N76C`]H?@V^_
MH`_?W=/Y2,M9[@LFQGA[\+V_J,:4[X@N,2UQQ=2-T$]/GA^/?(?_'S#>(V
MO=D'X2E[Z.W1W?[YYF%[(%$3O?D-AS$13)\@IOW,]7#1;X%/S'SGAL.23NCYRHPC'Z"?RL8Z>^^0=O?CU9^*X
MRW&'GHA/:-5"_F?BCTL8XMW/],-&`?D[_2UY.3[27Q(GNH@]01J(2<1&[I8I
M](3C;QA33Q^/K'*%&\8>)NR>?(B;)$K8J1,FA5BZ)9^3J?37Q=MQPR+W2&SZ
MS7VEFAPO.YQ&!,NB[!)-8VYCH;=FI4"/K[19]WP^5H(VB<8(']DBE'T504;*GCL]X0D/T2Q=\HYLN!?$L;/\"!$SU?@9%OYJ*0R(@04R>M8?[#'#X!
M,,%@1U%:O]6/R;.>;Y1GT^9_*)[E1@&+Y\T6VLH_J_(LU_-'Y5GEK]#`LW)/
M_3@\6V:"<7FV^*VNBF=E!RUT"KX&;E3;19XL%_IRMYC;EC?BM5HU^]9MC3>"
M;0WCV^KZD:>%L7IMD!OFHF2T^N%T/@:O]&:H/L]?R9"N3)71H4:?%K(*([<3`#=E$3[
M"ZUMR>^G726MM0%3"Y\U?P.S!T^2*X:WS\\A?B;D2J;(H>='WG:XQ!C0)J_F
ML`G,(.BM^LFZSZ:F#LFG3IK'10`V./6P>Q`S8
M6,\A:A;(L*7C2;E0M,Z74F%!HQH93@V.HTT[F3%@05)KJ891A]K@WV!_PET"8'_
M0"3:_I6N?%9+4SV+O#9U/_B'A]Q>!IAN@S7Y#KGT5#[(."?;S:K
M^6:X"7:-?#-M44%=1/7]`2;?`WP9NVG9#'4,-%U7^WI7/!+&4:GJ2GF98M@!
M2TO3USI.-U=C;`YUZ);._I\!2XZ>B
M`@S73-1BTM')T2)?7R,]WU_B*';]G>[ECB'A*Q.GFOY"E=.>8,>.Q*T]TC<>2Y0;*#O4Y`QT.
M[:3)%1U+[F`?;)8\V:P7>H\E-_94#<>2G>L\ECSLE[%WO=X,;>@\DMSYRUF1
MLZ>I1QDR<0^LW6O+W@.Q"ISE9*D_A4_+D/]J$_EH]KOF29=AKP^;TT>SZUE/
MU6%F>A7I?53(5EN.'_@'LK%#DO6A(_9-[2I<>3?59B`8OJL1>JR&H?\/TGMI
M_!Q#=V3F/L:HG9K&+R+NWQK\^-._R#0M^OE'Z?.@?#Y4]P?[E%>UBO8ER0S.
M>O3[/7G[%/@/]!;2!:#!:U@3:S4#N)WW,'LSNA5
MKH6!P:]ER0OX,)_X(B6V,X_LM:P$TB_&EJNZ0X%SF331,X<
M-2]#A1`>4Z7!,;]W$@X^34_'.C^7:SJY1Y^G.L
MQ+]6G@"-9$;PWH+H=^OOOI"P^.R>\/N`KHUT/6W6J2F;SG9V,`"8&6XY42N:7*&-4X!3Z7QA9]=?
M%Z7)DE8-V$&133KWK3"YMZHL4DYE:GK=D$%+0
M0[+=/]*5TF\MR989`E94X[HH6,DX_$%Y=Y!O<15Y"\U$
MJ2BI(?J6AI:;A-:9G6%)TV_S'Z^ZZU(G4ZV]ENJWM*?#X@;R^8
MKC5%7X*CMWU5"OT62<8[D$;]@.F&ILNV43AOA:W^9NVP=>`(\99LXG%=+N')
M2NA)HS=UE]C'*Z"8;^?L>%=`>/WTWHNVQR"ZA/B1'J%[Q-_C
MMT3JG]+=2@4)1C;JP?J!`G.VGJP7R6:\^W0YNB':9?+2#?DM^9JN__H?[CF(
M_BOB)P]1F.F!W"WYJE[\:F)W?@AW%*@K%X\2^2AO`+$6T!^T#<0:,79/8`@W
M."(W&$FSU`/?Y:UR13&`34C#T@GR5YT#28
MF1JP,U6DE844R$R.80RKVB+#[X"VJ$%7U2`9;.4&&4%L"2-2M!:,-S/]#\*8
M7J:[\^D)5+:J\1MNS`0N?V'4R;Q,#=BRV'RSR(Z>$DG\WF9!%OJ#2S-V-$N#
M>4YFWIN8FN?ELLS.OMM"KCS);O:$GN[->_:]O;=U_?AVNPTN/CLL2F?L7ML`
M%OCFZ!T@2"_@6&GE3)(>,9>*LHI1%(9PT^5B!603(Z-MG6;"2,3<0%RGK3#N,#U&!\,1
M1AFF1^^-NDG6_E5?'G-4#U()6,UO/9E#`6AJ07LPN_G=BKJM1L?]2L%:F@,H
MN$=/K_TG>44X#:[_>?1^.&\@R>W"-Z^,5%X2]'X;[A.-U?/:[S?JYJI)$.+=C'W]R07FY*__D>O^!C
M!=$;:M3\/?'[-:@6@%OS^7(2*2Q@R79#P79B`DWO9@U@/E.R7RWT7RC
MG9YJ0)?Z/37'F00L")4&H:>R>+IT#0O/$V;
M%0:[RS;^ITN/>\:OS2(YPZZ9Y_(@PETE`JSNR914TF\E1&
M%27(M'O"$()BGHSC$GD^CJ('_,RV;6Z_>]4]%.`[XR)(K@GP_I>S
MR1$4)[EK$FDH%8?^H`)-=2B:C'1*1M[4K32,I_8XK."IS2M&\?3AKXL7O]*S
MQH$/Q9/X'1-X$FD"I.MUEFH@PQ.7AG)Q=N"IIY'\]KZ"::-CJ2D&A5B2>\0H
MEG[%]#SL^>!MW2,$1_7G36"HJ@7P"MBZWA\5)=D!G1ZV5;NAHB@K4".+-B%B
MQ(XPBI;:AKKL(WX:[,0+"!^?E,X\3%:+V;(*#'-'.K18XZA9,SH2:I$DA,"G
M/BP5$W@0*`+;1)PZV^:0:11E0G6>8.M3;'BS#@31]9K:%-^G7J
M#XX:X=7F@?LBA<7J6H\Q2)SS4A$?_%USK/R-HY?JSI]#F)ULJD^L]8LNRM]
MZ0;Y6%AMV!QJ2E'5C)&"W<80<1=%%[Q[?PEYN3`Z#Z$96Z(/27EB7CDWS:I&
M,SLV?=8NTL9&E+J.P/UH9UV#N(-I>FM>5,H;2LMFYTE(:3-&>SM!O5-
MGL$$W4B
M=/%WY%E:-J!I#HMV'.'T.;Z].';Q@.%=6:>U1H^D]:Q8I)*GCNGE0&,#E#P+LV!$U=0KMKPX]M"D41W@,O)F5EJK*X@4
M3B0,#DET65M8?3,Y_=%E#ION%(09'U:!T%4;4P'<81M?L$%?AT^>]]HHD'+:0*56O6M8E8:#]ME$`&98V"9RP@C:0$
MT^TE/@2A]V^\XQ$%^^+2E\W1AT0E8)^U6JS%')(5'LL%(QW8TT0D_:TNL`F9
M=;K>D555VP=AL<9*BA?]S:@*9S(-/:]
M%^(M"77#25E4,-$`],;OH&_-I=9@7HG\/>%KZ72R]3TC:RDM6H&"V-DXFV6^
M;H(S"6A'1-!`,Z^L8M>[S#*U(:1]
M.`)VK1&&N#Q%^*\+3V!%C2Q\WAY)-:`;#9=+*2H,2"
MG%C]3:N"!&::(<34XJT!+Y\L2)95UJ@Y&;SX67,X4A4O^O#E(*-:->6Z$CYI#AT*ZF/EROI3U%T93W_2S2#*6LB`/3D-4-0#"=$Z;-(X5H`EU@W4Z<1*UR8/6A1-JX)+PW&&41,.>I:,%/TAQG4G$YN^'J_
MO_.WP0D_NM_?!:Q^*O9!18+!KX^**9A20-9>+++NB,FEZ3ZY9$1$HY)L*Z8S
MVJWG=W,.Y#%BH>>CW_T0;X-GG^UE41^\Q3[>>X;K^2A&`X/F)>?,C?T=VUBWO\$@8O7D2O^$DB0U'&B(A5T@S8>4SF"6QI
M@!:DHX)X5A@U:0#E+9@![E!.]EYIDZW#N48=M+UBQO&-*MXV7+71W>_?/WEX1=N
M.#NH0KQ%71$A\DWGU%GDO\L;ZLP0L\/-/HX3UYKDP4Y,423##N[6^3'Y@!Z9>=]&Y..("SNKO#CVD3J06K!+8LY\/+)]$AJH2GZ(^DG^4N7
M"(]\.D^WMWG7D9O'I*)#[6.+HV3+:!V\+(9*G;C8;",Q'[H[
M6J.>I>^[W6[I*;?H*]YB[X6NJS>6S@:^.R8V(!H!DW+/Y\EI`2:434:86)3*
M1;E@HT6U=1O-[[@!Y>G>'\Y9K8;A9A*R)9@!W>4,2A^=D]8
M/)J6/S8VP`J-PR9T)+`V12PQ`88/W?2PQ*E88AP,@J"IQ7W-U.XA'N'M+\_!
MR]]VV./13?Y1#6KR*]:NYS\_O)Z>@NIG$/Q]A#"NM0H;;ZQ6DUD>O_2Z`'][
MW,CMH[P#4W[HJ)5&!0U7B7U&J)@TZKAH)=_$5WQU][0^H&7!U9D,F
MH[-BM!')*!>-,MF("Q]VWU^^!J??ZA)Q&+6Z92U.O^F.K@\^SG*=(H[S%3LE
MSYGHJG_WW2,3GV81>`P>\/.I[29#^VLC=N!MRL`F[]/9+)EE%>0E5UC18X`2
MD8;G71IM3;*2AN>`!"1^-,&GBH!1NW>H6L!+32O'2FF.OP!K$\V_TZT
MZP]?TB3B?3M
MX-&3%"'+[WMR?0*)XRN1Y_DO.*(.#BXQ>1JSM#B_^Q[]%2O-;'0%6!TUY6&'
MVM?1-`"AON.N8__[GNFPC=^1\&L<>D#>&W_0T:X5;.%J.9^ODN'&`X\LE,I"
M3)BQT856"Q/J*N#'@+%M(PJM%CL-W]3@:`*.PL(X`NH834P18G[F[5?"VY^"
M*+KW$VYZQW(K;E_?X]![(>!\H061XOO]H_M=_$6[21J?3;KH"H,"G'2/;,N
M-[MP0#I7/D-X%YS.(3Y@/R)ZIES\7H*@[LX(;BT%42;0;0==.]G
M([.T*51H"Y'&Z.B--&>$]`;V"Z-!Y@P6:S]7`^?=W4TA^!`F@[JM27[LPST%
MQNSN50,]42M\HM37LCFU[*U[I)N:-PC[+'4UO3\VH%%DMA3&PYJU*)GUA)\]GR6W'=(X
MP/I?7[.<6AQ2]GNRX%IS"RN4%]H:W&`1H[W'_,9D]#5=1_U(3/Y"+YORPASD
MV2]!Y,4-=YGUB#;/E4H*`W.^KA?3%F)%6;,H:Q?1AA%K.:W/0U_)&C=T^7=D
MO[$[P;EWV!U'XH5S*JHX'L^O1]O($)U0!J"3#IZWGGL*EYS_Z<4'\GR>HSMN
MV@S4VH:M;-2F.3#+[GJVZ4Q+Q9P-5`?$E4`%+:Z!GS1ZLD)4!5K*,QEMXBHLDPT7[#O'JF*MSZ]SHQ)&,>WVVUX40U)F$3S)`31$WA*?YT?
M,9)13B&34]8>.X64MHB2)JV:VFCV$;^/R5_CF1^HX05.N?CIN8;R:"A92M_C
M'0[=8S&QC,5S)Q5H`0@'_BVNA5X^\*1`&D,RDV@YO21Z`J'C+.?]Z25I\GKH
M1=U'C%[NA+1R/2LN*HCIRQHE%]O%&H*Q%5](C_NNW2@+MX)+5%0&7CQ8S]8`
M6A%/E)*V!UC!T4\Q`[DN81O0$DZQ@JIL_=H\[W3!'(R"U#^!]6RD91U94;2M
M3-1G/73J+);=>6BH=>116*B_VU0XR.YEY$X@ZTP^U[*,G*53+:O_R3U']+;\
M^7STMNS:2^S&EYC\ZI-W\OBY(D4FZM>2>6+JHS^LTY\M9JLVGLJUJ!(54X1E
MIQ:8![)KY5EYB1-\)&VLD,1EQW1):!CLZ,,LY@.O`)(K?]'
ML8CC'@]N_,_@V[ZO,/-,U:(BL/Z1,V]=X^?U#5K;Z]IL;[AKR;3A@W:#NIZM3NGIJ(T/K7IM%8
M-BOI&-1"H/C3D\+#4-/)*SR?(E\-ED]KZA@5Q7&UCP9B^R
MA"2W470YGPF:(.0Y-Y_"S7UF]\^B
M3+11T"F&/]_Z.YJ9/?:V[O'A\K3SDN)&+3"%O3PJ2"$J`2MD
M39UY#M$DAP8]N)))1D71Q@&JV7(&S]\NOK?USJPZF!UH5(G7,A;A_C&!Q'^X
MQPN;Y&=%(:BJ7W&$0S)S2NZ;2;X]\-T1<0C2"-97;.;KY)9D)A3E4AD@4[DH
M$6SNUJ1NNX5W*+DF)F]1ZC:SX4ZEW-BQ.$'=SP&>\>
M@W=!Q"H9LE0(HC6J;G+&7OCLHB4L/X#C+*=),HH@)ET?K8:9$PX=H89)*S?L
M^-1+QDOT;W]=W*.W?Z7AZZ9%C%@10IKS#GLL_X2/8Y;LDN6SB/D9+*)G4G?3
MI87:T$^>CX)P1YZ.@Z3@H4>$Q(ANH&S=,&1-L#_\C.CI"MH&"8\CW2IPT=%S
MGSS2S[TB'-'\DUYTX(0J$).VW'7T6?8;9E52
M)97\V8W0-WP\TO^R1)W(+52630Z4I?[)#?>#N%GPR&DV!HX>8'^5M$,31[.6
M\N2O!I:F!W9)6D*['@)F\[WV8;N[[^P;:[[/MO`[]?[%UZT9<>9*`6NT
M319K*(ASV8;.QPQ@.COT\D\RW\-O@OW>Z)1/-5CA(["J9RR$HJCPB]JK]D`0
M7OUCZBS2F]+M\#-3\F0@FQVIS2[49DMP62MUHNXQ^_!(*[4T5"F#OFP-)E.5
M@'F"-C,'BDI6M<=D:3/MA@.AV6*X'>BLQC$,I$2&A9AGF@'K>&29LM7PSIJP
M'.JJ;N@`*[H+O@33V;$3BBES_X33;!F%GVT.C;"%450!&UG*^F
M2[Y'D`A(;WH...:5+V;WL&$ZK@TM2]`]#'&4#!EG:5F&@7S=6&RP?@3*2P@+
M'S.*0H55$_+I)U,Q#HW4_^UGAQ"+YBKZ]C-&B$?3-7H;,"'&9/?U*!DJ@R.!
MPB=O2XL/D%;"X#ET3PUWC5I>&!VI3>I`+[%,Y@EFF3"424.I.$/WCG09-S5H
M7`NF-5GH-%IH#M\0=.5(;W>&B5GN/['W?*`U1%]PZ#[CSQ>JSOW^O7>D]0,?
M#BX)B_M+',5D"D/4EDRCE*6,.--5U`TXR7.FR<7C5#Q*Y"/>`+V5DC2!>!NH
MT(B9R>YPGF`(3>0,8QL]'&7&MB4O2GXZD7E\Q"Y"TMG\MO@+_-?%>W&/[%32
M3^]^-CF'[XCGXBR^DRLMXJZ:AK=/41RZVU@M=!K$F&@-YR2-]S$&Q'W09"+_D\+T=T:\0!XM_C09GR_=2-OVS-B$AD6
M(IMI!KQ+,UFWCTH$L&9-V(UH52\X_)3_4'81;9\",Y9-Q4Q5H*B,M?;E84*[O27F2*6C5#S*Y*.',+H9=34D%$@.NAEF2.US#3FY>BIXEOF`$U8CHC"D>Y'!K?GYL[#5I`QR".=,-!R*5A6;+"3HG8@P!4I--T\PF)@PQ
M:>C+*+8UHU63@8[PHQF#,`1(&9[;7:`%W/]R3R</V;,=G="*?R%81Y049!H"3:,]`);>3AGNC\
MB3Q/?B8_D7\\N1$F/_S_`5!+`P04````"`"C@?I`YS'99OF'``!-B`P`%0`<
M`&US9G0M,C`Q,C`V,S!?`L``00E#@``
M!#D!``#MO>MSZS:V)_K]5LW_L&_FR[U5DT[VSNGNTUVG9TI^[?8=V_*QO9/3
M\Z6+)B&)'8IT^)"M_/47("F1E/!8($$!`M%5G3@V'@L_@`OKC?_X7Q_KZ-,&
MI5F8Q'_[[O,??OSN$XK])`CCY=^^^_;\_>SY\O;VN__U/__;__4?__?WWW^Z
MOOHZ>_HTCZ,P1I]NO[]'>1I^?/HO'T4H]7+TZ<7[2.)DO?WTF*(,Q;F7XW$_
MW87QKZ]>AO[')_+/X!/^U7]=/-U]^O*'SY\^K?+\[:\__/#^_OX'%"R]]/ND
M'/T/?K+^X=/WW^]F_KFB\:^?_O2'SW_^PY]:?WE*BCCXZZ[QN8/'
M__AT&_M_^#2+HD]/I&GVZ0ECD&Y0\(=ZI*C&X1,&/[9M^37WV/$?[I\Q\^
MLN"[_TDF_(\TB=`36GPJ:?AKOGU#?_LN"]=O$?JN_MTJ18N_?;?.%CF!^\N/
M?_KI1]+_OU\E?K'&QVOW;R\.KN,\S+>W\2))UR7UWWTBXW][NNTL8QWZ:9(E
MB[P\7WE]7'\@37\`C?K#4-J?4B'KT4]3@]$H/G*Y2'OA>I
M7]:EEZUNHN0]NXV#,$5^/F@=QZ.I(1BSA/#[UCS/*XS**HD"S..O?ROP%S>+
M@SE&*;U,UF_X3RC.\%&NSO:@%VF,X45H>E"%+$`VM-@$"E?4#-N@B.'#9QP?
MCEF6)?CZQI_M%4K#32E'#5I>C]D4KO5;C'6=B"!+0-W))(IV3CSX*+NF_OH4
MCJUP'5?H-6_FN_?R(L43#CMCS#&5TKT_H,KQ%XZM`O0CRXPI5T>.5^YK^C8(EAC(,G%!'&4OYWJ]A5'+6>^21/P6S?/\MS&,LQA1IBJ]UH@`,4X)Z3JEPU40FBWT\=RWL
MOR2Y%U5T`2AY22Z\B&AQSRN$\K9%>`@LH]&D4N9?>3'^LF[CO26HQ?X;*N_0
M!D4_C7)X%%$PDAY$Y)0X3]*!(@]KR)&H?DR3-Y26)B-B.WHC6*HBGSJVPG70
MQEF6*+9K8K";+[XF2?`>1H/$&.:8*J6R>DSEIX$->QKJE8G#X#F46BVZ$^V^P6'6"L:88]*MWN0"F4"E=3G+PS71%VZ*
MG###=9+FX>_E-+75=*\CJ?Q^ADRKV.HT@MF&-:A"RN^2>)FC=$TF&T)L9QR%
M]#76MOE"%:W,,=5*A9N0A-7H@D0+R%67%&`4B\B+NL":S/;)\P6L#@]PD:-0H]2
M;H7)*R75>GB:/608YX),H/S=B^XR60VU+S#$5TEW&'!#1Y`6+)HJ8,G-,M>=H'=:>WCCX6GBI
M%^=H!*8L-Y%*3;K4,^ZQKKLNUD_$PAVU:/D6XSO](8E]8@>/(@\K&_,W$K^-
M.%.@4JG?F";T5J;\:^O4NLY@
MJN_AHW-1?@=5D(B*!4#G&(N;S*MSH$CT$PVM^AQ54UQ_H-0/\;>JZD0QAAUA
M#QYKP2RHA&85V!\.J1+S2NEO\7ZBAZ)DF7IOJ]"_\G)/O0#>=T[UZZZ-'R3%
M:Z=C5I)!M\+IB%3Y
ME1>O&?JMP#1=;T9)<8%-H'!%_UEX:8[2J)U!_RWV\%;DPZP/_(%/M0)EBKC$
M+&HRL!^2'&&!=?\Y[%.DLQ8_.4XH?D$?^46$!2[YQ0Z>T8R%[WYQ>@#V,YL!
MQ`LQW6N`H9YW;!`.TX1'.?GL2;0M3_VVBJ8:>ZFMS.A=K8?:5-3PWU%V5VYB
MHV!0?PKZ3#\V)"0-COR?N(DV7E3+@O=>^BO*"07/)!>F]#Z/;/QKL9O)-[H(()[.@"6/(1!`)QU?\7D=6P1@3:%I:6.H
M:[R)QC_`=1)#
M=RMSZ!16?L%T!BQY)(L^:-+1C=:,-*N1=UYF6H,@&,%>+SWYV'#DT`8YR1(SCXZ&]P%I[^1
M,E/QVHK?W8;*CK!4XHQD+
M5W^RI>:M07AKE5*^PVONH(&[H#@@(=_5;\G\:I]E*XG`9".C-')(@_2;L;
M44]D!^^KUX#_%P_5_??\:_^.V[X[__,#H]ET5*PL)O,-/QHG\@+[V.@RN\@132F$WEJ#P^ON0W_X1L
MS^PURU./O$;6(4Z^__BX[LBHT'I$:9@$-_AW&058=MM3TTEV%49ET_)T-%;(
ML`\HO=WIZ'O!PW+(*O\\/C75J;_$$Z:$X0;HXW^C+84L>KN3T=<4B:GKQK0S
MD5G$\CJ=C/**#>[EM3*5B_;!IM3T?6$EB&Y
M9N/\P5NSX3MH=BKJ7KR/VP!_CV6&$)$)'HKU*TJ99++:GXK>GY.HP,),6GT4
M;#9SV.Y4]/V"HNA_Q\E[_(R\+(E1*L)0E&>[WQQ26/^Z
M>0@8*V"HK@[0(9334"N]I2HIHK5J-/Y>OZ0>D4N>M^O7)*+L=/?O>WK:"O`L
M[=+FI?YN(/SCD?;;?3F];O'#6YGW^[V_"J.]XKQ(DW4?O6E'3?__`C_M]WG_!R*H?^7;5R)KDEK<3OA8I)B.OWWWY;M/18:7FKQ5
M6>9:P.)\O@2.8XG+5B#$7&*'1U=`YF@`^?-$`:&KI`TN_SYI7(Z,A`TP?YDH,&Q_
MR!Z;SU.5YP0:?P/0YTD#Q#(0-_A,50!FF+0:8*8J"%.MXPTL4Q6#!8;Y!J"I
M"L,07UJ#TA2E8IY=N$%FVN)QQY/4@#)MV9CI*&H`LEQ&[EC3=^`W,YB;0?N%EH0\DO&IK`M57853D3#;":FU+F%=_'+^BF+S\BS^D
M6;`.X](.2^Z)^K-BX"GJI64E=2V8V_6;%Z;EA5^^_T!?`+VQ#KJ;MR1NL&13
MY906^+#6CTTD<7;T8/5]&)HWR5!*246E;E[3+`
M."4%^A#>2T4"YLQJK8]R\C!;]6'5"6='S8G9['=13G^"ATLU^3.>T%#]A-0SKFRM2)0Z+ZE%25ACD8\[OHR7(
MSHM05JL:^`RSHNP.6FFA%)5/K.QK/9FA5_VI_,7%"Y76"B?
M;3!?6*+*GC=?U**Z*`NE[R@&K?2(.(&@(CV,R6OE:9UR8^BT1HIL&&V[Y($%
MR?;X2QEH!%>R[9&9,E#Q;E/;`S5E=KQXUJ\=K6%A
MZ;:V9U*H`!46N7VZE`NML?3[,KF/]4N"EY&79>$BQ$-K\*S.?#\I
MR".9WI8PZ#JME>%"9336X1'>D?*$?!1N"#58@H513^VB:0UI@8*6DB=7(.KAH)$^.@4[WFFCG4H0J(=MM5"]\*[M\R89JP(UE?7J@[)
MBK&(E:3Y"TK7XH!SB0'T9"*U7[KJO/+$6A"GAZX5U'(;OG.BHI3S@B"LA*E'
M+\17T:7W%N;>8>G#/B/H62$^)&E.'H0ECXGRF0.CL0ZZ#QY0Y-/-:&P`W0])
M[,N0WFJODWHL>E577>M%0Z'T">RL>5UMHJ";P^RF9RWE"^VUD(\"/]G/;EIY(&H)-VR$>TT<5EH%2BM#Y8!6[N%9@J)6'[TZ*68;'HW
M$]EDH$5QM`/R;2M7Y:84MY()G%(F*CY
M`JN7!XL9;QZ7"2Q!+\67*;B)05U==C./3J`4;8CS/1]0#`S_DK(]%U",#U6LMOU-!S$LC/]F9I@3&"Q!)TV#5([_H+'(AI$X7-*:E
M@:U/WI%%GR0_E+.!R)Y2VQ.Z%5T,0_-OS14E5`#%39:P/<=V"'"\UK8_8J;H
MRV1$)PZK,GA6GZN$D>8P3[A!R7I1#6+_8^03-2A9+YD!4`+D+#2`62^,P3X^
M5J)X`Y3UTI>$,?`P+ZY!R4[KEBQ*\CE2#8+6RV!0"RJ?;UDO=5E69(-LIEKKF!^ZZ:GNNVMX!+K+&*'#="]M?
MW(%!-V+JA^WO]`RU]PU]H4=&I#*UH8"#1E\K[MSZM"
M'QOCR)2V)U'WA(C^#H&EB=32GZ6L<8.EINP6
M=R)D=&Y:29CZ6"ZM,D'"HIIRE_B1'$0L-CD?HK+\.,?]&4`ZGH`N]J0*Y`?/^5'\3^%4ZFY1'0V;V`5>8?AO4VD3[YF-MP:`QS4:!6%:JB?EM'?411\PWIE.XH>\9S)/03*>F\=?0@7O%.!1DIW40QN7[_]-,UST'%VL)?2:J/EQ1-O6QH7
M;I+T";W5CJOYHA4:P2`=T%'G>N:+JY`D=BR*'XGB=C%B
M#;))&A(#:'HMR$
M:E5P!4%V%-TK?=IOS'RQKRC>_0A;']\\O4/,BWSPL+JQ((=PX)$7#J%CC23V
M9!F7L3KX=@<96KE=]*RA.5!][QFY,5S"CE3"SCYZ#9ZH@`:HZ/&,%&
M>ROIT.MI>W[+V/@"HVELSX@YU3&&!B_:GC%SDF,M&0P"2\$I5USL^7B%>,F?
M?XC1DFSM9$'?S3,PM@B6YN/V0;@/POA-VS.#3@4T((#$^A<>3P0U7WN$O1)Y
MQJQ#/BR&?TYI06NP&OX.1'I\%:R0OT./&_M
M'?-KIK\,8VDUVY&_:`:6=EEC7-6?@T/5/X*N?;B&>]AL?]M#/R**@`1$Z\'>%7%G4A`H"'MW9/(P#LQO'O9V
MR60^>]GPK`96._5(-;#*9,0TB/91*,U_9*=_M@6-J4(B?ANKFZ76HF&0JBM@
MU0#-8P:3!1H6<0][=-Z!J":\VO;GZM6#+8[?M?TM>S68]JU*`7OK?O+\029I
MM8&T3P'>LQ6Y)$,4#M(,&SEU4IQ3-C!RE/B1!OM)<=C!X4MLUU6#Z*2,UO(L
M`)PYWB!J)U.%537O@WN#G)T6ZD'(<2TO#7)V1B,.0HXK0#7(V?GX-0PYN:JE
M>\S^S4Z3,O!M"ZF*P0UF?>S%MMP*P.K1#5@]3,%OY0Y@>M)\,I#]\TL;M!YZ
M207:=1R:&X;41@O&9>
M+N+UT!7^A"JW#GI&Z2;T474MMY)->.\4C#ZMWJ=)F&MJ\LI*<9`=:(`%;2%T
M:F;1_-(NIC4JB/F9L99[M'X]>IR@_SB:5GOXJ0M>M>;UT/*L!26ZB$@'#/*9
MS=U3"M4E0/8WB?$G3"64W]:5@J7Z#*@(ZB]-R'MOL$FJS_ZS\*)P092-6?9W
M%"R1Z-W[X>.:AL9-DJ)P&5>),/[V)?7P)>77-37*_XHJP79__PV`:,!DIN&V
M(XQN%A$4\U$PL$EX?(LQ;1%Y'O;O6.;&I[ZI9]&XNV(JL\PCQ(O1#$K,F^00J5>H:>S:MQ:,.+MN,72&RD])Y"!N3UJ.&9T:OIJA-EYZ\8JC2H/Z+W\"YNY0/IJ6U63;'1,'F]%W'XZ;:]<79+Q1CS4W`*K
M['6^=FLA=J.+5K":7>>'L,M(/SAJZI2W]C>MP+!@>R'0TP(_7/>TO6+HZ3^$
M(38EV^N)@C3?3@03_TH<6C$RA:L1*/M
M8*FX/6#INK8CR?5'PQ)M;8^B9#N\KJ3&C["R/2E6%F=%
MT5>P;%C;866:LF&9K=9_WE2?`[`@M#61XF(GG@L9=R'C\B'C=--$#=`7!]!T
M8NJOPLR/DJQ(45UOFDB;213ZQ*BZO^UOXT62KLOI]033;U":EQ;>_;-$5+\B
MI:&24*`9'M9;(G;T3K>!#E?L11&6UO%9'.Q^O,7J:+(ISW/?>&]=45XEW@
M3VA?&DP4MDYMK>0,2'\IC'B;@8.Y4.^;$&MIZ"[2`15,,_A]7"A^!5&]]Y'
MN"[67!R[;;10B3\J(96=-IK>,Z87F[S8ON"Y.6&ID)Y&K8A0Q4V`@?0T:D5"
MQ@[IJ>5U9E*2@G.VFK]KHX[[W;9;:`DPI)H19VE*Z*J^P:9)7:1S]NZE0?D/
MNJ'W,RLH<92YM*%V9/8^7LGKX4IV)6,?T_"@"#]>CH]B9NSX>!,JD=V?PV4<
M+D*?,(?O(#-D6U($]QZ>2%OL.[:7E#":+'.\PG[TQ.#"]#0J,M@"-
MKKG4]O!>!AHTA^6PX%-SH>BAW'=#VX[]RK8F;PV$:B1#G*VI62K0'LF`9VO^
MU4#(0;X'6[.W!V('\\C;FI@M:;N=7'QB#WRD#&C[`#T''$V#VL'CSI4DGYM,
MX&<4)>_DU>V;)+U*BM<<''JXW"=!1=20@9T9@^!]D!%MB_NR*
MSB)98A6?V^TA>9J.U(9F4N$CF/R:GFU*>7&,"$*1D*N::L=DF#9JO&Z0)@#5X4,>^\8
MZ`&J@*UFI7[7"/UKY*$^G;,G>5W!H=Q+Q8.<1V=3F6H0H@-D=UN=128(.N-"$Z?[\CNE*?KXALZD-$4O87AR#H_!:,E>_=9Z0$9`$LP*IF+^O_"R
MT,>P7(51D3Y%GNQ23CA7'>9$^%"SQ=UA^93FOMDP%L#L:]_6
M,@RJM,C)^4A4`J?F.$_%WE_QN>L/\EXI"LA;#9=>Y!?5@VT8O<=G+4'_^,P'
M9(/"#6J>]>M0698LV5%YR&G6Q)'#R@M0,K8.L\5`RED&..7#*TZK$!]1F)](
M8AQ;S/]VF;L;IC[PJ')?CEUD?#C5>S]?]F,WUTR[2SEBM]5/^X*WY#PPPF^NGG:M33WIAHTDMTVKQZB79L"%TEBM=EBN=RGWS
M)/%\46;]5F%/IS-!>RO6
MH_@'!:9``<>P17,:\#IIDJ)P&5\6F.'$_O8E]>+,*]/(OV*22(SE!J16^K
M)QL-7UJ8`OZ#WX>M]%"Z0ZKB'SN:RI"C31C@>Y%)O;BGT9:24V:^M6Z4KE!`
MQY;=7@?UY?4BNP1!)YU:40^IJ!O]#/AD;(T44(;A`8.$66[.N)[+0,`8]Z"M
M[R$H1TTD&=GZ.((B(*6$:%M3.Q1A*;I.;7\(:R!\(.3Z)&J8F_+2T]@Q69=`
M#YQZ'#I;^11MY5CT>D)^LHS#WU%`9(B,"!'H0+[5D;6R\5O:$O&A/,BLS168(+9DY,`*K'1FVR'H,Q09TT.F!V='E
MAG+F=)T&6;N,@O=>^BLJD^6;;Z?-&TKDR)WYLO+B%X3OT=1+M[?K-R],JU/)
MBQU5-;K>S"GJ"OL@;:@!A!NX'+#^-T]4`";?7C4+/>N)AY*3S/V34TYLCX8]ZSW:*5?6/V1@YBX)_6E]W$#F6Y!E)+G)FH]E
M03+II$\ED;8!J[%-[P&>95GBAX0K-FY?PXR)TE8UPPR%^`"F.;G'R"&57DRW
MMUDKJWSA&%&M8/Z*C')DSD.Y^G<9"R+FFSO
MTU#++(X/[*GKI/#+-30-M-!'\C07(1X?9?/%%19@LE!07X+30U..R1JE6*"(
M'KTWE`IJ8]#:ZJ$Z)>:;O$R0;7B'\5./'D1#N;1&S"N%
MT5ACEL_79(/2F.R]Q*F']34A.^,2']PE5LH$K\H+NSD7;`7471(O7U"Z%KNR
M:2VU.(TQ/]M6!H2;(@[X!YO16`_=:;[TENC"\W]%`?##%'32E@LCP5O8[?4Z
MYOV9[M\92HQA!F7&B3M2DD:
M]32R#%@-F#Q_U!EZ!T=%LXU;GQ0D(U;;=[3XP&ZS365G_K":CTMSV9]+?AEFHXOI8'"LM:-@\E
ME^-*GW;6U^B##\LV:'LN[74S^@`&MS7:7BFC#WI`
M3Y[M53+Z70!\)XNM#YD.NPBX81(-9'8IIL/X&\S?T"CU3H85Q5RC"2([SZ$T4^0,CQ9W,Q_928?J%L`0OAAP_C(O9=Q+Z:B'W&V6X=.@9_Y66X2?0^
M#;7,##=@3YI72)O)+B_X??%B=R&MK;T)5QDT_@_5T>@HMG
MGUP\^P!9:1]$`N7RMAH'>U[,P!C.8=J;K3XVE9B/8'&`^>G.-5!>UUD7Z-NV
M.OBTGG6Q/1OF*W1GO;>=UU;OHM9SS3O'EKWYU4,5GV;4OSQ&TOJWW5'^\@!*
M\P![H_Q=L,5!L(6D44OR>W0H,@QH0V.'[1)2E,`H'41L9V;$(`SAT<1VYDH,
M`@\<5FQGVL1`'B@97VQI]L0@$(6!QJ/G39A1'CJ;!4%8T74;8Z5U7QR9#V?F6H!XP1=<9=ZMPW24;'J]IJ%V5,21>7K
M/V63+4.Z'F\>D]':.U_'`4DXO,G8/>4=/=CL)2`YO
M,C8UX;,%ON_^@;ST!<7*3Q%LCC-#2=7IX0Y]!I@0FI_#CY=5FA3+U8C'!S+1
M.>*E^"!QQC\3=%[>DYKZFW"#QCQ.PIG.$K$1#A1K`O/P&?"Y^S)5V5D6+D(47&Q)4"%9Z-144#LC=$W8!8AB;'N4KV'[P#)XV1XO;-`V
M,&S7MD<=Z]L!ZMMCO]JX:$EG@P5%OC0ZE2SH4T$O
MYCI6/T(ZP#(ZNR,+F\3)3,F8J$0-SQZ)\>PUC'N9/
MF)IXR?#W<3KH\%XVF%YL'\AWAC@U`1F-]=*]8Q0D"XU;]8_;1>\:F@/Q%&:_
M@G:`TD7O&E@.3UY+O10_>&OHB6DU'>[##,L;KZ*X^OF0UNJW[?F3BMM5+TD<
MD"MJK29RH&&^CT7JK[P,!=0JAZ+6JJEY3B(8(:V&>L\=+ZGKL)7RJ`_^%0J-
M_@".5R^%^UORINE-E+S_'05+]!4#2:KPO"07
MZ`GY>X']"DOH\9(X'';%X1BK5#2X)ES>O338[9"P_C>ML=$1,"`G7J#P"P6W:YJ4A
MD2LS=9HHT7S*[;X)8R\F[ZBW[&[)!N%?YO=A7(H1(9:]\2V[I>D]TF-HH?P)
MX1]21)JH6$1[.)W^GN#
MDIW1U1"+-/V;HZ$ZG6^/ZWR74'5M#\WMZ^6C2!1[G8Y$I0LOPNH.>EXAE-^1::,)OK"!VA$)P$T#IS56@OE>ZL>C'16%:.%T-7--=Z+V&T7$.9#0V
M@VZN1,ELKH/V=A`,Z-AP.K@DS%U40ASLKUHNF+266I)(B.>V7HE&/WA(=V<4(^!VT/#^[2M+\!:7K5A4F+J*TPG9A6'%=AA-)S87B!3+*3B="%V79"H7FM"2\V&N2%7"E5OA#C);$'G`&V''\*'3L#D6TZ02`2T-%/9>V1G@/
M=1MUA-41G0FVL\7Q'3&3C2P^#;1R@;C6A9OJ`9OEN+(^WOFT,+.MT3N@OSB@
MU3(/JM1B;[0ZS!/-__2GHD&)O-[=/&V*1]3VLA0R`(&"NFPM-N'R':CY#B3S
M-R.IOU@+BKO%A;)9'#RAB)R7NN95R9EU1+*7#H';^%NT[FI88?@ZMS:;]4G(C6%T+.D9N$'!$1O.&>J5B(
M=I)[D9G?NVKU%,Q-%?-R6X429W@7&=[K,_F2=&IR:K&T.[NKL[LZNZL.N^L)
MUM66"ZJ]NHW18H%\TOXQ2!>$L;U+NT6$8VCI0Y,>4[FBRY)\_@)907N/E_,
MWU!:71&"F,:6R"^-6H-H1
M6:^2D8]HOGCQ/FCW0L^1S+!O*?8IVAG/Z7R*YOM:G$_QY&XM4?++-+U8AKAR
MW9EWKEQ#?62]]%-;4R"&PZG)\#6=TC\:[(G:]M?>`,'!MD#G@Q[G0QM@KMQ7
MPNNKS=M>='$@MHHLFK:7;'1)PUIS8NVJ;NE"L
MD.[5SN9HM,ZKEB([[J%;EW#A$BZ<0CT1A7K$=3TD.=>NN*==,HE":ES%Y@7Q
MI04S+TB,8XMY86+/K%H1C#V9)RMM"@FV2YWM"Y?H82@[WAK+4B2R+
M%>!A*,L\H[V1$CX,Y?(67-Z"==[L]\J=@EC3<9/R"_2%!^S"R\+M?B@*E+W)#5K
MV)/&L+X`.FKQ3*$T#QY/$HBKTW/>\`F$MGZ.#.
MSU.9;(&,BM%8BZ]GM[>\(]#:=]P`B\EIYQB(G+]JYSA7E'BA`^K&UXK.Q;;]
MUN37-"G>2!;/GLV0#:R22S-.9$GOX32OO2E5'*(4ZSJK[1W:H`BV4EYGK>NB
MPLV-;@)UU;JFV_BMP%2W]%^4T1!_QCRVBLA^XT7WI+=.'YOZ(`^-D).NE8Q[?G
MA@G,E@@KS>1E$G'_?BYZ+UR#W@N(O=[V\+S1009?L+:'^"FWHTPV*&84)&6-&M9'
MOYP*94FSF?5E.T^#NQIV;W_LT5#[+A5\KEUQ,MP;9#6FX@>S/DT&2("9N@TC
MRS!@>]Y`7[P8022V)P_TAHL7-61[(D%?T.#&(EOC48Z
M-KC]Q>'6N1RXL7I[V#X[&:3+[V`&Y`:_SPZ_HRQ9WGFSW%PIB9=,F&>#H>6&
M2*484D))&R`M5RADHB&H"BTM**=!SW+]0B5Z7X[1LUS14(G>3\?H6:YDR*+'
M";QI,+-A!IM@[4.=@<=]+?/QBZ[F!.0SFQN"NW<
MJ%I.!RTIC%ZV(HP>_XNHJAM\&F+J$6=L`EA_'[&E*"M">*NG$G\.>IJPH:Y\A6(J6H+/2;6
M,-M(L4^&K8$!FO04ERMD9AK+Z+E"&Y2^)I.'6REX`K74J;](<9:1$Z\65.%5J3"3";L>#0!@N--
MFTQ0LDM]-1%)*6.ERWL=`C';.N'R6EU>JYXL3)%C0I2">63]GPP3%KM`A.FK
M1];XR62,*`"/YJ2Q-6/$!1!2`P@ORT?ULMN8EI/06&:K\&:C7@O07>7]%/7%
M==9/%X8>J3DZL$`CQ7.YL")+:HY31--RIZOS;+;+"N(R3=[1GD>(5[P
M^VEI.'.47U(OSA8HS>9%/E]4BM/XN%)G/7,DRV'&AZZ:QNB087WAA>/8(C@>
MDF%BV60L_"-IFWTJ2$TC\&)4J(55DZ81?S$JQKTJ+5D6.WY*PXO(23:&:@8+
M=+8GW.Z\-XZO^\'"J-U>ZMA+NHX#"]!V.Z9CQR"Z_\3"P,]I^VI5>%"5ZC.'!HGVI@^P5'5QCSG7IJ[K1GU&[4U!LN\#9*.$YA,@6!UWD>7
M;*`62X`;=&I)!J-!JXI!32H@GNZ45X\OS:!F*T]QXA'&8K;`,EB0!R\G/:*R5[@?$J@+9
M::*5QB?O_=[#WW7H14)H.VVU4OU+DOYZ&S^FB8^8@3:,QD9[RH?PI6!/']8DU/J_$6#"_CQ)E@!RC
M`A_ZOWMI\(X_4#S3,SYZY$>:/L!KKCIA67#`Y>TYW%&<8>>F2.,P+\I-O0D_
MR$_6?])"$_(RM$HB\`?/Z7#^!A(UF#*Y.@]702>CUL&R
M#DET-&H];',KMXN.-322)9,T7J8NN+MAQC/([=I6U>`PV:JP.,/:@3\9SLW:
M!ZFZLVTUJ`W#1J`OV&I@&WB@.`*7K=:V?HB)E3_;`[?[G3".DC0HCMI:P$3R
M^K",3W,MO>!^Z).J:?ZAE%5T)N>1&`*4S,&"
MJF(&05@1>!LODG1=$J##;='FL`S5OM-$L:$;C`W,XBT_G"VF[XD8.L_40#@A
MXUKO+]I9V9R53;FHV[W>;+>V.='6B;8G%6TOB@PO.LLND_5K&)=39H:RDJ?PQ18A;$5K<3T\,S3%5[$*RK-:&4$X>I)PO:E2#BO.0ET`?O9`5
MR"`[BB$KO5XLD$]J9%UY.:J)K?["*GPK.8@AZQ0)YMPNAJSAP5NCP_,$7PZU
MMR$KVQ6K>4Q#'\VB:/<>66U&+9-6AOBG*M$5ONX>8YN-2OW6:.M9L:OZ
M\GY"&Q0S*ZBJG,%LA$@,_WL817B/"V;$:N_AE)B8=K-C6>4MJ6;/'@I2C'"^
M*+]-#/IS$AW>-G)]%1O#P-(4S!@F/YR2]6"$L'B,Q:12\X^#*[3!NXW!W.!3
MD,34YULD.CJ#G5J#'6,7[W?R?_,QB/9/U$4'3]M]MCN24+:[H!E6A,TUF8I]A(+L!BOX&!Z4Y66(0GL'V;9B
M84^]QF+*%9I=;%O_!3,:`X?1LE:T)-R>JX]WVZA)`_\5=V&?\?:?M:"28SV/
MK'FWVASN/AR37
M@FI[4/1XL`),L+:_EB,++L_28?NK-U"L)"W#MC]:(WO$0*:6087;#09-E:V>
M'N8&M?38JJ^XN(K".E[:AVH,00.OR=``)_0>%RE:-@MD&IMT3?
M,K0HHKMPP?)^#QK2D.@[%ZUN!N4N>O:?ETE<6C$*+WHB7PT]0$C46@OE198G
M:Y0^H>KYNFP5O@FHY_10'/')NFA@`9["WK;$2@ZHZ\EF_Q?;>^]?27KT^M-A
MI4^)$0Q;84,=\>%S;Q'94XD&MB([0#+OU**4%7LGC"=/#VAC>BRRV![E
M.P`T&;G5]F!?!6>/:Z:QO7RQ"OQ8!CI;8WM=Q!`S_&"`*IJ@DC]+2($-5*;B65I91G,9M*3MVN;@`/]Q>GQS^K)#0&<>="^:1@PWA
M7%X[G&[7;UZ8EL]GE4]BB0,PRR
ML1I=\-79@IPMR#(#ATZ)D1/'IJ.`BRN=,$KI!,XNPR1UR`!.3N>AY/O%NHB(
MSVF7SEOJ9/2CT6,@P]9K?\&(KRE;!Q-V,VPM(@7-V&)8YU;08Y25/B#6LY*"
M3N>O9;/""[WT5Y2'\;)9-2>TB]-:K\[/V3Z8&4`XP%D5)-%GO9"0G^BV"_%.
MVJZ.N13VD^')M1B))9H)Y['W18XIWY)[T=D>PG&*
M*=B5T*X*1IZ@:'L8SVD**=@9[G.Z(AYVA00Y[PW32P%5]IQ#1PJJ7OK'A*)_
M%6/I7&AM-![+C5AA"PW1*O:'WX:GO'
M5]0L#G8_7J$-BI(W$DE&GA3G1S#`^SL;O@U2H[/AGYOQU+;H3X7V%PGF9VLB
MOK/&.&N,<18$IC7FBX/2&6-$QIACSVQ56<7,URBK\D(,Z1KQ*9CE5MC;F6TG;;8UTL1IBFG0[I!AJUY6M#"P>(C\)%>'
M?B=;VA[&9,H#@3T"G8PVM?646-RK;LZX\343BX^7F%,K5V6]-/&U+J'
MW8;%U-H5"^^\..YQ-Q/1U'X.PHND_5;@4_&/J)"7.`$VGMLLWO_VI5R0SF#O+E1QJ88IL\X
M9M4@LU3_^I(NOK.W"55PITW88L+%#7R'VFHV9S_?&&X@R5%C44O"3#JH0*)?0!E,#D=A43G+,TSWJV&J_=/RA?4^/!
M$L_A_R[!5
MVYF;K$DH*0/4Y"SR
MTNA(G$%['QHWV/>ETQ5QA5YS8X*U+I-X@_#IQ.>7T'59I&0W63%-],::LK;;
MI(ARMBEM=5!-IK^-L3)>E&]=LU-S*0W5!(IUQFT!^`WGH^H525Z#*#_#%`I?$Q#'WT&'0U>_W%WY/JW`G/8YD_9;=Q0(+4U
M_)'T[Q'SQ`F;ZZ>=Y=H4M=9/^;V7%^0.I_`D0`?]]`L+$S";ZZ>=%SU):ZF?
MXF^Q5TG9*""2%OACI?73M1JN$*-=!H[#0QVO5X
M0MSNDGCY@M(U^0X8N'6:Z*9QSU@`Q#9M=5&=UY2\X,DX.B"UJ0DT9076*2JF5/V3@SZPLVGK>L[3\%=4*H`]%M;N;=K*A"
MV%G'NA[3Q$\O4\6OAW-PC]KG
MRY"!J`)N\7-_U333`V!4K#O6-
M]E/ZWN3"+#KN`W880'/LQK:"ZTS>:G^4!N1KN;PGB_(_0!DXC=EH2Z1(
M8KN=+YZ0CS^_*V\[BX.RR`@UO+G/./K1WQ'ZA"F\7BR03\R)CRCUR:>^A&4I
MB,88<9_(E!AC\JM>^\/H;]:^/.>D\-"`33D:0/_ZCHRW+G/*94YISIP2YKVT
MQ1-8J@NUARW9+?9F97`%/TI#$_(&7*Z#Q#?]D.0H(X5Z'I,0,PM2GJN^'J\*
M=(->T\)+M]?D^;R7=_S+[4V2YMMYC-A/!@\<<8Q5O2:$]!B:1H(?)#C;`.-HH$OQPA>M3_
MD)%&6,7_06G"/=K5/P%?2^\1U:T*CUF2\!Q^8$R[I^,9O>7E?/7AP'_L$\]AU._'O+I=HGH
M?-GD6;C9W?T2>JT.Y$&&J>PB1B
M#"5`XILRIQ5WV!,VJF7>=@]]O_A[J`?G=`[5Q/?H!$D@]BJ@[K11O
M$;`]-:)I98&+0%1AVIA6ICCT6,H:'FQ]JJ`?BCW,H=-*,1<>PUZVO&FEGX,/
MH;PU>UH)Z4(@^[B;II63#CZ+$GZN:>6GPP^AM"=W6EGL_-106@C$M!+7!Z;.
M3D'M8[P((8]5E\<5L*`B@:L
ML14+G1E[=:A`B++Y0G?VGIZ\,I<=8U"&!NLXPK(UA+U=YL8A0<9E;NRW\`F]
M50P9;^9C&L9^^.9%!X_T4H]I[^$,7_MM_("9_LL[BC:H=.?STD7ZCVD\"NJV
MOS76>:RZ?#A=T:K)6&>QZM(FK&K9U6#GL>[W1-FJ\5#FV$R.I".F#5N>(4XK
M#D<=DOL#-ZT8',4`5IQJ6D$W:B&LKKAI!=PH1K`4C:85;YPW2:Y1_39!.6+^DDZ6V,6Z(7
M[P-E6FKJ5>^%W"",NQ=A,JX_WE"NG0P'8J+,MWK'^IT*.H:KGI*;X]1CGD*3A
M8D4Y"DO9A^C-]8&:+UKGB>7\[C7$">FFN;ZEN^O4RN1NTTY@M$C&L]VD.1@Z
MT55ONT5S^-EC2N6VFS('0\>\M8;9+\_!-"NC_O0
MW"/73P[?AYQ*22#.UF=Y;/<081K._YO#:&O&LRH#/Y3+!],1%
M&"_G;R@M3T]VA!ZF%F5YZ!\L1\6(9X)`K?JJ`V`WX)FL_SZ,2[:T*UZ'[][N
M*+L7_/)5@O^RP4W*P!UU@/6FP%I3[[._0D$1H?GB,EF_)7$5*$5E@%VIDVO]
M53"JWM4Q;<0#1S1`I07>C$T6Y4`,;940G9;;/E_J^,BQ^:FGF&&K7Q%"IR(YN*2"U:=EKLF$(>8@;>
M'Q+AT$K,#Q!*OB9)\!Y&T>WZS0M3(JO1N&+/D4S=V7F^0NDL^%?!M_#U&LK4
M->-?/J,\CU!)IL`:/F!`6YP3AAM.#_U[>][:!%>2+>.:2:7'."7EX#!9;G\#
M#)ZGD&"9;E\^N+;JE2-)A&W;B1H!PE8;X8@;,$BRL=5(:,B!9\D8MH?U:X;]
M6)RU/0W@Y(#3K23#4@;,M6D[WR(O#`\J:LM^QD(+C*UU8D9&N0=;F%0D,T0!
MFZ9KJB]2/0_T9-Q.AW'PLRQ#.8F%OPN]5XP8*62CIS+X`6%M>NB6,FX7G14'
M]K!>>F\AD322#/^8IMM%DKY[:2!:D+B_$:OKX@]=TT$O(U;R%7\YX$VI&AM!
M=^O`/R!1(0M6+P-7`BS-(>IMX,KJ?*Y^"]MU-G!=#_B^';*T5G\C5B?Q.1GS
M#?7X5UCNO?`R%+0;
M7"89>,]43&4H9E*[S^INZ-J>L'"?;LJTTYGOIX4798UYG$AX0CEWX.!&X/*S
M%Q75.8VBY-V+?;#<2.FI>46M&PS.=VF=U%00H\YQA;!6Z8_E[^
M)S4$3WH0ABV`L*K4[3"7_7>F":_*-H@YJSS6QR$^.B'K\3_7GMJ
MK[TT#N,E@`="!U)RP=*P$D/$J,
M8T*Y(Z!5@58?1*2V-P^)V^4'&A_"MH6@0=$N'\_X*+:QZU.?QES'MXQ9@PN8
M$E7B#485[9WTO9ZK(.A.^)U
M$Y$&97&J':OV/R`U$">:6116B+`DN=@;8BK(2BWNAQBKR3F)&+$5M0-YN$_<
MSEF=+8ZAB8$3V.C6H/C9^L,V"$:VC;:!D*[C`)"$&^C@8O
MGNHP2;SH<80-8#R=0`S8"[DW+$0-8'6R*]U"A9.'4O]&QO!N:QBWRV2AEUKJ
MYUX2"S1"P-V.@>EH6K$F`%61VWT((4O,LP]GM`&Q05Z1NDF]-'MT_,]6K\R
M`VI%O[R$YH!R.NB@GS"4IKI)J\(,EJJ^Q456>-&^3A9K27)C
MZ%AEQS>R#=V`5#,Q=!;&T3YGG,^
M(LR$2K6=5$.O"Z.3D)!&:H:M#C3BN2!0A\DH1&`WHD$(O*R\_)>DB`(2^N/G
M^P(D+]RJN3T',\`V+:LY[#7D8U'$5JL"3.:GOG)[)&5/#Z.N?M%%22`CPL('
MS@\LH?+31HDGZ]D:3RP%D(R896L8L11@"JUDMD892^%)LPK8&B8L^64R%`1;
M(X%5H",40&T-#U8!'DQ_L;H8X)@([G5@JY\SAR(H:<4:%E)\/I@Y%S07#9$V
MN?ZBV>$3XGZ3M8Y*53@/)A'_ES!?X?;X#SO!CN?@53F'02AA1D=9
M05WO9NC9D1W<>%R4?%%R0QN$R1,*"K^DJD/YG?>6H?EB]O86A3ZY(ZMR^_A7
M=^$ZS+GOVHXQDP&^6EDIE:IN'HLJMJKB4K*FI-VZA[_MK?P*\=E*\VG@U?>J
MA#GISCC_5!7`TK>LK>ZZTP#+O*9M=?:=AB$`8.5Y"1T?&"A!P?R)#F:BG`]S
M'582P'4W#N.:/9\V3Y!*
M@YKD0?[0SB-2QRM>DM"[=,M-DZ(V-2.;T&5!GHSVUG9BV6VCA$3L==SKL3F[]JHX^YQNX4!_@\ETBM513N^A2:CRKIDMA,G
ML]EN)`:`1==U;$ULD)+<1>R)+F;:F@C8&[J.;&!KUA]8F7(&6QXRDXW([X52
M2Z;=`>..#X!'.7O_9.3&([7OZ/LY%GDL1J*K8K:Q.+`SV!Z>(D*C:QLZ79*T
MUD2?9/V6Q"0:C-0;P.):C():AU+B^YI%4?FL`=7.06NA\T'CW@;HJKL?+
MX6K`5$+``+;XS$WQ\#!V]>:&>Z7,`Z2]^S;&]8Z`C1?
M+'B7-+NQF2J$,[^=UOSVQ8'75E/AMVN-WT\./V>]=-9+9[T\O9%)4A&0XG$.
M0:J"LL>0(X,Y\Z\S_SKSKS/_*C?_'AR@B^TS6I(SH>-]\=WW7)-`CP$1-#;`
M;.,,QL:LZO0&8Z'1C/7!P2QFPM[.7'82%!D^*5EV%58OT;"-9J(N
M.KZ[6X=CN^&WT>E
MT18#5/]T%V[H)0>$SDMBOGJ1@&4IY710;MUA0P8Q;
MPM[.N*76N*7F3-[A35K6%0(S$$N:QX/3T`#]$LIC]_(?8\FVZE!.F6R?&R'OZ,C!7.G"
M:ON-%$[)L"U:JMFWA,L(4I]%/0D]Z(S0FG:WAX8)*+C=4JGA.;D
MU7685R:+./A:>*D7YXA1OUQ-!NLR1:7)Y)K45K[R/E
M[M^WZ[TAH.(H[*:%M/]S\-:IET=8&5>]]TL@#]=/Q==,(N]@^>#D^D9PH&V$W
M4];",MK`^IBRB@I8;KR8L-MHYU_NU&L\Z^7-BGGK$Y&/HNN/-Q1GK`N,WM;9
MGFMT:CO88Y'Z*PQ4DC1?S=:8:_@>6Z:FM')/8REZ&FO([NU*&A$G/];"5_L;@;V5HBY:
M`I']%0J*"+7DR=:5QDO?@/34&(+^%9%Z=V\K4FH*$HY.::\U,+Q-#R0H_*B]
M`9ZE0;ID)TP$#)*C1MX,0B]Q11X]K-158A6[U6O0%C*!^VNJVD<6*:
M>6WU5?5#J&OTM#V$5`X;GG'"]IC2X4@=FS%M?[I2#C.`6;H![-\G`QC--+G'
M3*C^[1'[;)=@(I-9-:_@=P3.8[=>0>9M45X>T)&
M>5G;VCJ["K_'NRF5NA`ZH_:B*&67_"1;%*F:]>X',GJ]+WA6-1O3Z*V8
MVH,IF)4:!#V44$6*\/$18#\Z!^YK0`B@:BVA*$F1UO:(O]$0;(L6MH"]#1R?"XLC*=;H@3+U5J&("#XK]C`=MMS6XQPD"!E_*E[K
MM5+\4^9Q%MQWE.$>:#\I2"Y;M=#Z/P[76/_ZGY>S`[);?U!3,HMPDN?X7DRP/&B6`
M7HJHPU)'[%4COY!GN$OW1\9_VA'0RT40U3'T>W&$;".O%M-Q0_WT$NF87T>)
MU5S)Z;Q+LJS#*4FP_!K+Z^3]L#CPXISEQ07V/!&5;%\IN.^XE#Y&>(X\7"RD
M\>SV/!&5/?`\[*NGA!F%.&(]G"^:7].868\!C%C?D1U5M)X[K5&21^3PZDLQ
M&NNG>UM6H/>B&18
M7F*^NB8J(1'_4/!0L&1&4#\#]@%0\977PX05H/1Z7Z5GZ%=5(VX,,`#V7`OM2T/N+?AOCR(W^E
M+U2^OZ&KJ]R\_5=7]S=S=8])2L[;0Y+7C]CT7N?Q2!,JG'N?X)9)Y.U5.+8A
MA=54*1U[U4=,QV%3186$-RB*>"6$6W]7,V/)Z>>+VGGR=^2EU#+IU'9**7CT
M\M+C$45HB8)HN[/K!7.J^@KI-@9]-]XF28G^\C-*@Y!NO!9U&8,NXB"3IHS2
M20EMU?"S."#F3[PS?HYE[<4-I7LNS[$,.[ZR0UK8564@;K;$.KEWO(I=K
M=]OHH;**]+I)TM+,W`AI+&,'KX>:/4>I3US_Y#)^0'E=`HZZX?266G!,DZ#P
M\WE*7K(/?9Z%G-I4(\W$CUV30L^&$;=WI?)/62K?%7`?I8#[*:DO7C/T6X')
MN<8LBRY8\]L:0#7QDO$09[0VA'+^66>VUT%]%=O7BCSBH$YOJ^1>_A:'.0K*
M#RDK_WD59GF*Q=++I$@YRB&HWVDC;;X],R)M\!^48/5+F/E8$PLYP0>'371F
M#_2,C6O*01\$PNSC1[_8F;*B!*]6",\>KY_LJD`U..JL6\:1[M:T-8/`I2`?
MEB=FQB#1'WD_C/R9%C['0D[S!L1Q%&_#L2WD0'+Q5WN8X`%1MIZL7G%A>_R8
M#H3FL-F57=TC.$U\V(ZBQ:9YV!A!'[&ZG];";.!B2P'!R?@.7D][E
MLO(:Y)PP+YWOUX`W9;E^4/)*`^%$)/UI5PZ$PR(,S+.V2*`\1C(N`.M?KX3#
M1GE]T=H'*B4^./$SGM:^42GQR5'B=7;P_-MTX9&*$MCA]4>'%RB$9X?7GZ:+
MER!L?(?0GQU"]*2M'4#_[@#B*3?V%E26J*BRYT\#"NLVP3$DA7?QN*@T%%S+NQT'0LS\`DV[935QA%@
M9_R*%"#DK8/FA-CI&0$!0D\X;N[D"7\\$GGK#5YV1A-(?5OD)8H&$#MO9?@!
M@CPNT*!E*2<2U5OIN$?8T-HNX0AJI`B\MA-&B:TM,(KE-'>_G88-;M67-C[2
MQ2A.=[ITON[VO,(09\2[OUXG\7.>^+_.BSS+O2H>3D,=GTOO+:J%7`]K"D$$[KXL%:_CG%]6O&/*NPE+N`8Y_P*5Q]JSN-UI>:Y
MT]:'SWVV@]=#3ST^?.!NLZQ`P55!O!"/"%\.074J']![^2=V<3Y09VWK>D)O
M!7'@933Z>&OB=]0I7?#NHK9PP>>=@Q*WWRHLK('5H?Q-+69),.@-CPN=AA::6"8(JOTX]=[QR/CR;)5!G*#:/D;"*X"C2C,9GJV5]E0A!F)4MMIOX"!*W%VV
M5MH3BT:3TR%AD(A.V624QP,(5&N)!\-+>!%IO9S>Y_2^L]/[QO'6&;*>NBBK
M]'*J?B9H1P(.Y=0@IP8-$^H%'D6G`@FYRZ14'2>].^D=*KU?A9LPP`-E5\B/
M,!J!EH#2Q@&^IP=_ON7V[.FB2PB@KHK#'(\P@^DD[&XZ1+(=-8_>EGP;Q,CQ
MDER@1R\,KKSM?1+GJUD`)@E9,"X3JT!JS4G5*B9&[KQPH@P
MN)LD??8B](S\`G]N(7G8Y5]%EI/,_@>4SQ=XIRM[/>Z7(B\C`FGY;\:!.N'$
M)N%YA4G=8)ZS0=E_%EX4+LA3);/L[RA8DLR\$8!4,:-)"))*D3*'0Q(NZ>%-
MPP:TWSU`@8UK&AIX!U&XC*L7E/QMJP@)OJK*_XHJ^4C%N1DPF1(3(X\VKMT:
MUM&TO1VP4\:>UR=BQLFREYD7S1H"(BLA==3C3$`$V53GP^F
M\[C%U4Z%)GC2T7D"TQ,A[F32'G^+L;02D0CYKUBD)S1V()ZE88:OJG9,2&X8`'Z2M=C.#K41Z15KV:+["SK;L@6J;*`--ME9UUY@[8+:,)O=J3/
M(RSF\CAY6S8$6"7[V+Q[8Y=".@[D*@6!!OG/TT+>A5K)P2-SE*>2(R9OOGPL
M=V2%_KJ#J=[]JYK2W209S;>E0K04^>9W4^J'*0%8@,MKJ'QS[5
M/>XHJQ-23WRV)10+JU-=1X$=K(5;G1;KS+?.?#NF^7;F^\6Z*.5U%C(ZBGX!
MR%*4K#7&3#H46N`Z+JM&^'>7*_)\5#L!X@9_6:0TPTV4O%?>RTIW4X/A
MP+D-1A5R5ZG!4&HF):8Q(&%IR0HO5=J,3HJXHBM_T
M&,L^$LDT31A]D>IY\"P4=8/>1HE:2>3U69H289Z(
M+_NM*EXS/PW+,_3$>&T6VE4'FH2V>[1^1:R2XZT&:G#$#`]SN_+XUN$TJY9:]&B!<=$#N
MCL/4E,MMH\S`B@UVTO>;L@[TNUV=-E+T1G:_^=?(L/2?X/)/Z:QYO/*O2J0)>;)*U_1=I]/C6D="*TXDR^*:X`
M06MYSD9R!A>[_D!^00R^\\4"[WF*=3G,(?%_ESR5!A"XF]%&_!.>N?IFXIZV
M;ALM5(:QF,I.&S5Y!F^(O!L>+RLC0GU#M^W?)9^A9AL`NRJBDS"M[*+(L/"1
MD9.BP
MBEJKPA-?5_,8L7?VL(G">5_>$]&\31,M.X59_(.WYADR.DUTTDB]21F-=-#Y
M1*PK'"";OVNCCOL=MENH>W[\2.ALF:$NMAW)[+%^C;3EORJY/+E/W[&HOP^')ZE%RB=XFPQ>@J7JYSYDKS"
M&0EIA\".PT9L#:_K&V@C
MA;B\,F%U4H,NN*G6)ZL3&7HBK5`:M3IC80B\U%!2JPM4#$$+[+*UN@[%$`1%
M#EM;J_4;4;<5(KL4&
M>:=A*F,]PI"4!G6GGLIJ33V"%QNXG9+:@1N`-A)-TWKER0GU`HF>Z[`L%.9@."GUUPR!V.+GC=(!3
M*]EGA]$7AU%+'*&$(.V`^LD!U99\9>[.R10X&UR'0P)?5^GL>A+/,/&27FFB
MPM3PZ`9K[C\@4%F)1C:W*\*&F=Q[)`PQ.*@]T9P+NQP;4#2Z
M]4(:-.PR_YTBU6+/CSB!]@V^=KDO3X6OL(!'`[!=[H)3`]RN>;G']":Z\-"'S\<
MD599J`:1L=V9.JN*ERSYB$M=?Y`?:8]J7Z`8+KLNJ`/O,I3J=O-(9UHIG-0^D>Y:LD(*R9964[S9PF(\-\
MUV_4^8PL."FSH*@VQD(8RG*2.59?#2SSTJFFMQ/;ZD+3AFT]O0'6
MO,&R[/"J/2".8JO6Z8P:+FY5;=RJI0;8GG&KEME`3RK5CL/:.DK"Y8:N?6[?0+JRNEGD+/G9RKY*3(
M^3D6;?*MEEA0VJ,0AR&?G39C1':V49`(V:1V7&=BW.3I`L4EH&!X[S^UX,"*Q'&
MW#0[*!E:6FZOL,R_O[1U@0\CSJY]&??12]GI;5=5$A*4XF\>^)4AS>V+X`)[=T`2RSNKTLP)6%0YL)!Y6/91^HF>\W5/65G@1
M)5PR]$SLP>9Q6^%U(9O,C$E%+I7)!52,BB2#RUH;1'$2,%6(8O;61M=KG%.R
M3_+FUT'1JV^E6O><>VGNME37EC)?WEH*[,URG4*>TF)'6FVY7V>_]Y+!6BT]KZ'CFVXY*?>;WOB'>RH
M"(V,;M=#YN/LDCG??O.%3=3(?*HWO"RMO#$VOL*JB3@T&TT6=VFANYVLEMA9%=>9;._!UYMM2
M#-Z_YD5.6/UASXL\R[TX"..EXB>H!+/!S*#009SU4ZWUDY5LK4!R:'V$]8:R
M;#,GF=)@7-@OU8PXG=ZD_)J4V7*9XO.;DVK0:1AGH3]>PCUP2FW6O5?QFEX9
M:[K^0*D?9F1?NZOZS+/QC3.AD=91P9EH+6>5.
M#,G9S_P[/EC;$R("!Y:$+I.XY%.%%[V@='V"#QQ,R7F>Y;:R_=*W(DR-CSG3EZH][(Q_,XM"3F.;>R=L?K&+&@)G^R,\=-
M@^0'G=TA.]+L.K_V`;(L>W4L6?;+2%)U'TJ,L-/P3L68QAK0O"8BQ-K/$X(E
M),%(/LFT8W854\1*YU7"+M42I"6(^,LL>;FIY\$9@D*M"!,O(*W
M65:@X*K`JNVRHK/R[;9=ACM2F;*\_$`&A#5*>EB;E+\QO56V1J*YX,9.QOAI
M',%*@IL$RKVM.G
M<1F/]$$=EW/O(:897Y3T_+:(79S=+L%,P\[TL/3"LM+*M1=[4W.%?6D>_B$N
M^7#@X!\GG!+V=(';'QUW2[?@>8_G"`PO>WGRZ(>1=HOO%&R$M]X[:+!\8/8>
MJG3N-OMHUTL2Y[V#DB$GS2;V>#_";>)HFR@9S])LHXWN0E.W45F@:K-_7WK8
M"9U4,]X>@M,'FQVTT;6H)]Y4I3FQ5URUK8]EV;*IO5)0!SV9=39E55KFIQVG
MZE9/R(O"W\?"26H>5YKGD"`3"I.[\MZNS/3)2X,T
MII*R@N!)\M]!4QL0S"]QM[NRQ"YRW[CZKY,*H'.5=,W9`F57]0C&+,&%-_FZ
MKKWV1JFRZ$)T1ML".6WT=#6D32C!^UBD_HH`5D4PC51Z]V`6N9*[K,Y*RBIT
M4E=W,Y$"SBP%"MIK7.J8%5D%/9P-Q$@;""^HD+FC3-6^YVAJRI0TDS.GJNWU
MI1]6//?BF'SJZTS=,
MU#>JU(KYX@F])6E..':]T2R5@M-!L\^X(J.BJ\SPW9_!BVW]1Z!WR2EA6S
MJ1-Z>B%=#="85'$RAE,2?E!L%=P,%D.T.\UDV)7Q09YG(9X!R*NBBA:Q[C-CO_.X`H;GL=.TYC
M@O1MIK74H@QZ$:$0:YDS"-0BN_/ER2)
MZ`R8W4Z/&Q_?`V4H4\UO=S(YY;Z#]5&"XSV6,C-*/86O\#!@_0YGFZ
M>AHF@B2C4-GZJ(\0*:A!U=8G=89ZJXZ,?,ZM1P>*:K^U-3!9RM1$$;0G%F$:
M+N-P$?H>.59=]J/$SSF+HI+[L\U3!RU4!W^RUP=TJ@(&&XCUX
M)>N:+_9T/:;)(LP)722]>,>07Y++),Z2*`R(O,AS<2D86+WT5_'
M]&UUA9V#+Y+">,#=3D$?%2Z)CB;X/`\HNTE2_@?7_=Z.1%*!FU35;%/T:ZI9
M15MK7RRKD>U$#I/Y!BH
MPJ6S';#NN,H=U['$L`D[B:5M[9991655*NB';OO=+J_JM4^;6*"V-31A&&X<
M@XFM<0O]`*/:V"<2OC"6F4+"LYH]749>EH6+$`47VWOO7TG:
MY.//4N2ISA8$S@KS;1].?Q1#/`(]+Q)>=X!Z.FV
M55EV'@&!?5"._3DO0&_8>G.WR9A(91E^YTF!TTC!UNO9ANW$L>1LJS51&=X:EAI&WDCHX
MC%NDD/4?[_Q-%Z+R4/C\D8>0MAE>+Z`T%*6YFK)0Q&=3?QQ9\W5PV(>@AXYS
M6U,S3VM:./&.U*8::6XCR`UN9K=WIB4NI?L""++L2+)^(D>0@.:P"-U[3B=1P2Y0900O-_O28?+[@%>@X_\NUC
MY.5D!L-SW.V'MPC'BB4/N$7#@^$*9K5&9\CCQQ2Y;@S'E<9(P"]H>
MG@D'C6+'M;VV%!P,L9!IX_R
M+HF7I`QH,,LRE&?7'WY4!/BNN0EC+_9#\D1:EJ=%%=J.)4#OHVK8MLG*G%J7E95!0^(OMCNG/E;ELM'MKG*58??BP56]7B5-
MRPL)T*%]V_T'L];A?E=\8%TE*5).E,Y1&W6N]?UI$3C4#]MIC,)OCHL70>IM
M4=IKK7[4I@=2^>BHO3;'G+ST)1V&*7&UV&I_U`8U+[35+M/E`(B'7HJV&C9[
M*#R3LR_UQ`AP@UAK,NH)F?0';F]*BW:E6GI;+(^H<3$A]`03MER_/SK'RI+M
M40YP;.CJG.W!#$*MBI+H2`-S&N58GHO7#/U6X&FN-R6##X*P(J[E'Y$SU*M1
MCG=%=&;^;T68E325/Z8(<55\<3\=JCZ-*K:BSVIM".6729;/%S6J074S77K9
MZM$+`_B*N*,8LM+KQ0+Y.19)KC!/J8FM_O(9OE#>((:L\\%;H\.]@"^0VEOU
M@R00/@5\FD1J*%L<0*88O1693KM[>(4R/PW+6Y5E.V5W,(!^EH]:V-P`VOE/
MU7O:(&V&I6!`G5;QP.@::L]1840U5&7J4S45O2<6>[0M"*06CA'I2.A
M66^BD\!)5NL<9+[;H/0UL1P]NBYK:VB`(M#X)AU;G?X0W6!R+FDH*$(EQ5H/
MM"Q"3%G5^H=^>IZA27CA@4J^X%.;J.AY;%#@X'3Z)$F='KW_++P4$QMM6SK=
MM]@KL*J'QU9KE>?.!;/&PX;0$M#OI3$I'?.(TN<5/J`77A;Z!XOAMS6!ZJLP
M(F5*@73O6MOB]>B/XU?\J675.S@,[-HMG%^FPN0!Y%LI@'87GL8Y$\^=\BF;1#N
M@8_4*9Q*716NX/E8PK]".0E!GX:5AE5>X(`%?4V2X#V,HMOUFQ>F)%J?1BJ@
MEQ9KS,Z56UW6+]['DYS
MMJJ(V?XI^+(HVNW3,S=65]3+V3@KG.Z]CW!=T&OHT]MHH3*,Q51VVCA+['E:
M8I^\>,F+"V_^KHTZ[BELM]!!(;F0@G\565YFN#^C/(_0+MG]6UQDA15SXW%RH,#IG#!5`23D+YJ0IUU#L9;P*PU(X^R'&O+7T7=@%HXQ)T=8L
M0.>R48X/19NLT?GBT!$*_S54/SFHS/7]Z5&%CJPS1Q_;L9YC,1)=2U`;BP.#
MI>TO&HG0Z!J93_
M>-*+*/%_[5^=S"R_IUU>$N#>TZ
M`F8''?2WJBO-%P_HO75.4OSY%+%??27X^_D'RF!/3[W
M($"Z:4&]?DNIP)=QC(E)O3C#5SIQU)!7-6O[^)S@
MVX%\'GP9L\](FDSK<>"E`?[P@\+/?_%2+'3E6_[:N'V<0\,Y-/0DJF)](4#X
MXRK?#*NOZ@SS/Q1N"(+;C&QX%UK@\:.7>2`99OF#L)
M:E*=C#N)BQ;?4&MKU+<<1H-T498F@@QA^CQEX;.7O:.![O,$H9-T\C9@
M35EL9_N6&GRF++(#O=D-6%.4Y.$.]0:G*0OL0'-8`]:4A7:VS[7!9\HB.]RO
MV.`U9>E=(E:D`6R*$KM$",<>J"]3EMGEHQD:W*8HL`^,+VW`LUR`=VD5!5%C[/;
M.R'0"8%."'1"X%E<5S#3((#`TWZ!GY!3YW(?)+>QD?4\\S2(TWBQ'(GECNQW`AQ`AB=K)C)
M3$:6!Z*J[JJ;3.*=TY*8$
M:"=`.P':B$M>UE@KQS0F(TEST9.Z5)P-VRD?3OEPR@=
M.O'2B9=ZQ$N[+-S#7M"JU?S+R,NR3S&J:U.;75JJP*U]0JE^&8C.46M$NWX
MCOL["I;D50X?_ZG46I4&^O>7O@;12Q?4!@WI'";.8>)T'Z?[G,6]""V]/83%
M3D8#\UE?=H_8I2QG5(;ZOC`J=BO0NXO-C6
M!#ZA^G'55?A&D?(F:+R-Q_%_8/B$$.#Z.Q#KIK"JY0%B[CBINR3P>CL1ET
M4\^&L+E&VMM?$81X2GNG'%8(/23X$JNV%@7<3X_64J_SDLMR;^/]I=IZF?`1
MI8LD79/"Z7#7IJIY#$2+07V2E:]D[[GM0*RD9W%F$FDKUM?(_31=
MY)SGRGFNN)ZK_97?>*94)(];Y^:@PB/P=E#[.!.V,]PYPYW3\@:I(P*V-!F=
MS:D63@QT8N#88J!+\C[@NK,L0WEVCSR"4S"/GTAB?(I5T`LO"[-O*:H71#
M4+N-WXH$=AN:5@\5'1+.DMR+NJ#-\CV:A_B])!=>
M1$QRSRN$\L?6-\=-&1]_4KWQ!@>G;Q8'=Z'WBM=+HA=99U$RZ5S%'$YE<2J+
M4UF,$+-D/2A*6,QD5!PJJ*>Z_R;CHX)IVZKD/MN#/YQ^[O1SIY^KU,])38T8
MBU];BQ^K&U9]C8D.79;D=CE_E=DI/$[A<0J/5JF1SY0FH[\X$=")@$X$'%D$
MM,M#8YD0M3=\[7?PLDC3W7&&F\T%W9V`Z`1$)R`:/D1?GLS@@U9_?R%\LMA_:)39*[2!=.I`:PHF/3GQTXJ,1
M]QQ,?)1C$$Z$="*D$R&="#F.".GLCUJ>P&)ND]1NL2TSWS,4JH*4B2:'\N';W5!J>TF7&WH.YD1,)V(Z$=.(6Q!F@^S+-)RHZ41-)VHZ47-L4=/9);78)!GB/:@R)R^V]]Z_DK1\%1AHG90;R@F03H!T`J01=YN4C5*283CQ
MT8F/3GQTXB-/R:),%[&$46AS_VOVEYX-#O7%Z/\Y=OG5SHY$(G%VHU+')9
MDA/_G/CGQ#\G_BD1_YR)T&`1:F\@V&T@/%OZN(<3`IT0Z(1`(ZXNV01IRN?O
MA$`G!#HAT`F!,@5TNLX%9PNDEE(4@T2_:B$]G6#KQ$(G%CJQ.C$0Z7BH;,5&BQ2'043X3T.UQ]OR,]1,%LG:1[^
M7GY4Y'=QAB0K4,)'TOR(%7N#9)^J`H_DU`BG1C@UP@BA1_I!*CB[F(Q:`82N
M_UWKGI;J?4N[YZ.<
M/N+TD9.)@DS&.!F=PXE[3MQSXMYXXIYS7Q@L.NT-`63S;F-\Q(MR+^&V:F9'
MO>NY]_(B+=]VGR_NDGCY@M(U(572$@\;@-`>G.2@)@L*MT8OWX8+CJ[V8=2W:!8K0(
M98VO\B/JMJ%77RJFL@I"G,7!7>B]AE%I-9%A24GD8WZEQ]2+P85G1=HD:0-S9A;H"P/?;QW-_CWX5(6AGZC.G7*
M'G7JN5BOO73;8H&7">;Y\1+A#T'\*`ZXNU,5G:HXL@>AAX@P&4T2"&'/6V8R
M/AD@C'T$ELDD0(`]IU+B;@/?'Z-=XSH^).3JQU8JT3:YU8
M>Q:WLX3;@)$@G03H)TDF0#'9%?(CKRQ]+,K!$'5Q48E&"K7MDO7K)"X/V[S(L]R+@S!>/B51=).D[U[*
M/P+#QU.21/2\PB?O";T5J;_R,O28)LO46[>^%>$QEAS!*2+V*").5#]KD:+'
M&QUR#&\RHCL5P%[\=3)5F]B0"46IR;RVX31"IQ$ZC5!-Q#*>=H7B;/^N#VFL
M]?$#(4UT64K8S:F-1JJ-3@5Q*HA30?JI(&)6.1E-PXF$3B1T(N$)1$*7N6:P
M,+4W2&MYSTS&FN_4$J>6.+5$D5J"N4JU.W%PO7Z+DBU"%RA&BS!_C+Q8
M18+D,*LUF#ZV!1L\A+-F&ZF`.6'-.&.]OS8:ST,E(XDZ$="*D$R%/+$)J
M?-IW'P(W7Y1!AH(.[
MVNWL99+E-TEZO*6M'9]%)5FX->M\D%'PP2"?30];^JEH49,+L"?]Q@O3G[VH
M0&6P;_D-9#^C+(>DM?081>^9H6.]8YLE[8^[\%V,_,S/PPT^[9*G0Q9V!DXG('#&3B,T,+Z>!M/)HY-QE)"!?^4-\%DW)K<8ZY5>*^=]ED>7)&K/*BRT^0D'AEZ^E/J-T$_KBIY+&FT\O
M>CS"9SG>\=>"?$_)\3'H'B$X?NIGU!R$EUK,@$9SL3I3)S.
MQ*G"Q%F\9NBW`O]XO2E%$N?W-MFDZ93;D>AD?@8,DIGMG6KN5/-Q)$GV$9V,
M\NW$/B?V.;%/@=CWGX678N*C[?YO+:W?R8!&RX#`O:.+`,#.3K:U1[9UTN%9
MWVHPZ1#*%)RHZ$1%)RHZ45&UJ.CB(,T5&!L?%'\OY6KPR(SEQ$DG3CIQTHB;
M3]9M+<4RG'3II$LG79ZE=/D?/Q`*7[T,X?_X_P%02P,$%`````@`HX'Z0-HP
M"OK\)0``BO(!`!$`'`!M`L``00E#@``!#D!``#M7=USW#:2?[^J_1]X>KEL5'S8K#]$-=/\:7XU&X^>_
M/B]B[Q&3+$J33SO[;_9V/)SX:1`E\T\[7V]GA[?'Y^\ASY=W>?GI[>X&".R"QE[-[XZ6+7F\VJJG[EC?KHO7^S
M_^.;]\*7F[1(@H]>@-_N!V&X/]O;"\/9#^&/;VSM[B_7=[!_B'/?J+
M0'5,,,HI0R^@#?WHO=W;?SO;^W'V]MW=VX.//_SX\>U/_Q!+I\L5B>8/N?>=
M_V=:>._=C%+LMQ3PO7>>^&^\PSCV;J!HYMW@#)-''+PI.65,"Q[5<9)]VA$$
M?SIXDY+Y+N6[O_O;Y077ULZ?_L/C93\^WY,X:E'`+Q7-P6Z49#E*?"R0T!;]
M/D`!GP$,L1*)I&S6_H'W;95Z%TD'^R+'K0)%TA3Y"W#Y&25)FK.NR?X-ORR741*FY3_I#V"*'TD:
MXSL*A@=_?+TY'VAF7@Y#NU!T]R3U"VAH]?\H"4Z3/,I7Y[02LF!5[WA1\&G'
MJ&3=K*IA`0ZC)&("[-,.[P:$]9/
M[=#MI]8`^J$+:,7)HZP\QFO";%PMMQ;E*'OZO*0C+&[4;8>Q'<=AW/?W
MNK@S?M56YKN2\;2*&H4]+';@?S`+/J(8?J*(72+R.\[1?8QOL5\0VFC;,7P,
M7XT=['?MX)PY>Z8Y>S3X)YA0IKX\&
M%P;+)$_):FQ?'F2@@?8'U=`-S*8U^$@XKTFZQ"1?7<>P2TH"F&>7S+4_$EXK
MAAJXWW7AKIA[AW!(4'&>D!^#_"4F&HR*($9YEWG"[NHX0!,PT#HXSA&F!`[(LTF`\J.[=SFW#102WXN563)
MA/C(`;T;Y@.%K4?Q828:?"7/%9^W6VSK:V"P?\;IG*#E0^1[)RA'$_"C@"_N,_Q'0?\\A3-!
MVUC!7FH-R))GK.'D,583FF/0_!O=S-#EK8
M\+>+7((5H=0O#6*N"81/Y0?(=*B/7)PO95@B[A1GHN6BPEMR#%<J@L;,M,`+GGJNB'R$^C;CI6W]>,;<=/`WA-_IXR;GRS@I0+H;5SW
MUEPU%B$YZOJ#Z2>#>)F0:YO#?$N>&F.0X_14B?TF,]AF'+;=8"2@.ZY+;3
MQF1/%O!BP=F6UF#)=M@RWDG>.EV@]F08VX[8MID;C+EIS$!RY!E&;T_6\`*!
MOQ8&8<508Q.2MT\;!#Q9@\G#$[5*Y=C,PR!@C6K!5KY"84VF@5=R]JD".^FO
M->\VZB3CJYEY%#JO
M8E=!G4TP6L%XA++(9P>E<4''NV[,;1=)77$-F)+_CO%CLW#)41FE.R%J@2C3
M67;Z[,=%@(,SDBZ.&TU`SBI(,O%$XNTJ$,/,NK&9$&G0E%QGEZC5L
M/KVP%OD\H6Z#2U>4TT[OGTR!0M3^)H0C&+H8="SJI?#!CJ[GD`#M")S
M7,71`Y9>Q7/JX!OHX&8N#6UY#::*P+0&NFFIM1%,(1:L4>LERLO[8UTL>\MI
M,%0'GPFC[']3\/4$[A.L%K!VMJ]U)#!S4P,P4`W.(;U)OMW$7,1UE6Q7\*/%;99`UCK:'4YEU:O=3*-3T`?Q^%!F_YA8(V
MWA6L>=J\^5K!/J&[6705CRZ/)]?@+GFW;'!O/\T\V8&=SRM-3G`6S9.VQT+`
M5W)XZ2DT:,O>KC29-3S%R;QC!Q.V5@>_[%84G7B%H.OR;GQPF-?S\U5R`_DX
M2)3,X9!//A,>R6;8"GZ4?%[E)2Z8OL4H\:HJ#^7B9$^G_KH^=C@YS0!VU@'N
MY<2G6BX/#^_2',4O_6V,%9D/Y34,!*QKZ`&8\GQQ())IVZ^$?@@E5B.
MR0)TVD6L]4T#DN0L8CG*@+I,/#FA8H%*$QY]%0XAU%M.@Y;D#!+BL=-PPFY-
M3_UCE-$VG*6DSO0I'YKU%=,@)SF#:CXL*T`[#^B$F]6B%E1WA*D:\0!N?<4T
MN$G^GQ(ISFC";8T%2!2&F&[#?0I*_H1Q(J`"!Y&07.$P/\,!)CR[3@$O9]S0
M]=]A$AAVUJW4,6PQ'R174],(KVQ%VVRJAK"(&]X4KVZ+!XUA)W73@+&QE2_/
M[5MCJHKLDU?!)D0:TY#\5!57`'IKP&687/2NB?TYYG
MLT%R4T:$J>+PF_
M^U6=,'>"S@8Z_NI%FLSA98J!+5!O.0UTDNMK\#&,"3J[,5;Y3(71GL>.6`.R
MY"-]BV@YM)NJ&'91>TH8LBL4-"!(+2O^:!)A\21,?+FC%,>2$OEIB@B"W
M\`5&BANM:_,;-)']/3D&BY_TEC5ZO,J6X;!*O7:M7EVMQ^N=S,9RSYI7%B
MG.S:@$(#O>3X:K&'#+JK*9D&GPEWY?RB:*IXVZNX][@94'\!]7,
M+'W7@">YKGB^8X'#!)#E6>5C%.`DR$ZP'R-%K*M<0`.1'!Q5Y+CN-
MF4C.K37,9/)BKO\!*0ET.*Q9(=W'_-`+_R=@KMB4V6I/#P
M"9'@,SBU5;GB+!EH+$)RH`DU>%`%Q*0TE;2R*84>J\CC-4VF8#]4P.![Z.=T
MAY:OE&-`JX`&2MESQ@9[8.%5/":0[/TGTCC,G^)E:?;ZL#.ETT`J.\N8OT4Q
M7O-IO$RX-X&]]CKNB@^!`VYN77$-M/)%Q?8:K>0X^;G7&V&Y&D^?,?$CNG0:
M&FM[BFIPE/QM(GQ>Q6WJD^OUR>O2OQSPTZ"^OM@MIL%.\J+5?;!F5!T_3;!9
M=3T>+R5L)"$0I'Y='!X7-SMS&LM'`[SD%S-]$7W:)V_2/LH(.XII'7K!]Y@7
M:2;OB4UH-+A+#K$*]RK6#S!OPD`J=QBPGCR>EA!'\R0*(Q\!9&5B:`J5ZEF3
MH:(:0"5/E\#+$YA-+Y2,RF#..L5QC+*,ZA0'1ZM+]+\I:0;%0X*1!*Z)FE0^#EXIC%YC'Q\!?=.P7ML`+T9
M'XTM*'+-2[9PM&IU_K(R%B):5N?5]4WF89T3A*4\XU=(^5OFX')49'^G^JXO
ML8IV&K&4[;
MA@U".1A*8T&I`5ERZ1F`_/\W.@;^#PT\XB"_/9VSVZOWA_L/=/2O'F>1%71?(HAUJ.&SX>,**3-8KCG5UW
M)6_#:"`X)5`(?E*S^4;DCM$]C@U%IF45(E\`AV]$VFXW-Q":DBB$;CVHI9#]
MYUVT7$9TK&/_IO]*DI27YC]0T5.2>PE:X&R)_*&&1PD<7_E4SLQ_P`M4K7,'
M2.!?LXIN!C_-]M_.#O;?/&=!V42;%C2:MFM!16?;`I'5._:O(#>NNR*`2M\9
M51>B[)Y1%]D,+#/;!?!G>_NTO;W5LBI%RCE"2T:XB^,\JWG-&E[VV@]RL@M<
M=A.Z`R*1;Z:$+A5HX@.H?__].DU(D]G(9J3)EW$M4>IW?6#@%UM.N#X]$D)5Q5N`8LZ,%
M:,:G'8-H7CAEH&,Q%GSD,);_TYZ43U#0[.ACEI/2F0YKMQT/W=-?D)]_VLD)
M)#WAI>BL%*7!':,+"E)NBI.(WXRMRF9T`TMGD`*^?B9IL:PJH8O@Q5IRWT$U
M]C*79"\L;Y!_?*"4Q"_NF)]1&6O\("[R,VN`E7MQCTFJ[]*UL>9I`
MXX-T@:+D];KJGV[U,8V$]HWQ/;KO@HFE-`?WE%K<V._RFK*FQGI436@L@E
M9'7-EI`U)'`3V9YS:EM73\;($^'Y#3I9CNF(K
M8@ARYN]10*C"UHG%H[B1GA2AN$F[.MW[^DN;R#L:9T36RH
M#A*A=F1J?FYY$"K
MB0JD
M&G?X'&4M<4U)7G[5&$0+.'CD4^-XB4_8Q&,I=:E^UTS,HZ]K^
MKFKR'7H6$LB?X"6AHVEU"55\15@AK@7MMS&9A71S&K#%8W3/*"'A1.E5))>3>$EI7='OG\IO;,9[0ZAYI)8\X
MJR_'2PORH4)NC6!U.^&<8D@.\;M3(HB)`F%93/O-=1I'O:G4#\OVB6*.Y^&0
MA\HJ9:)."^;TCFJ`1P0U,4#EHD1?(+W
M9NL4:D=@!!GT)^$L7P0O`I(@E+
M.8H)"ZL;U(4QK9N2E[$+=&R_KQY1M)\O1W!Q4AO'B)`5>/299^TJ_)RFP1.M
M8%!X/9&;LE:OMJINCS9=,(;D[NI/QP]F(OM@&5L](V<827*"\(
MVP-JA1TFK-K\:P:TX.*J%VKTYQLQ-B=V4/8(D8'1LPDVD
M=)+#P[H+67)P4POJE,O#(QV,X.:^=N0T^.:Z&*)U4W+N`L8!
M?VY:/-HM-W5E]/-=:G4DAM1)F5SRL
M[,&(SDV)UWSX?5@M&V/NI.X^HRC)(,D-OU?#.%VW%FLZ"M%P=%1+G:5`E0MH6!$ZHF]#UA%=
MPHJ#HUJHW*W-R0*U;)YSG(J50HPI#D3_W+!*QK-S7#^C#,24V$G97RQ1_J`2
M7Z$5SJ*18[)@)T(ZA*Y"HWETQ,Y*>L7S!XBXL$IK:V3.$P,"6[)
MP4TMI,D)SJ)YTIX&!&F&56!![J3\O2'@\OO;IV&(?8U)K,/.7?U`KX:[Y*;'
MIWHB)V55AJU8+S)&;@HQ*#\AI2.BEU_7!>N1+C;U:SI9K!
MQ8"[](A?/[M]P#@74\T/*FS[E3JJ:Z/7\C2JL^3QK6C"Z/$X6]58,G525V,?
MQAW4U?I,7=;5X,.Q)GHQ9."F#B#0X@A"+L3L7"SH@(^SY?/DPWJP9N*N+F[P
MLLJ8KI=96=A=V4K'"P[.2+H0WC*Z"D^O;_72&I([+#_XCA:+-.%Q)8;!**:D
M;LK=_X3RL-`F=&Y*#`!)@U%UFT+>4QO=3EJ?J;NZ@ES4F&0\>]2(Q8$M#WYT&T);E4#B7;JAJLRIFL^N@B
M+-T,R-T/+]QFLT3')ZG/3F*K_Z?KW%-XNV&E&3FMR!Q"JWOIH@J$.U\L442@
MH""E2>&R*_%L9*S4ZW4C?F)4GRG1I2EM:J:8"EG?'65U!)\?=4TCE"@\^L,56$IQ@
MECH=Y@PX'I-RT1F6;X'XRKGI^(3P=SH'"@>_2>V8H
MZT2A)8'R-IT@K"7=VJ/12SPS2XME61U.(`U`ZL\NC3BLV%6B;'KK@W.-OGM*
MU8T6/CC5Z&JBO;J/RS=)!3?A-:M6%,6HN-A)7O_I%56;C01S4QPAP$PU^ZH_
M.S3;"@WLSJ[R)R=GT_,DA):PG]CCFF(/8">J+9GTA44I7_LE4?8:![\FAN([
M@@*>S2]3[M],"KLTV@E3O!@U53T<5:"XC.IGKX"KN]=(#D[U0!L9Y$XZ@MK1
M?EQ+HCX[T1B`ELA-S-7-'H!YD,!)9"^HY67Y-=0=^=5[2H)P/=];$[WM8V.;
M'(1!SZU,@T>K+_0#Y`8)Z:1!J^D\,61*\/)H&3PPI&^\]+R0.8E+TT]OJZ]C
MVJP\"D-36#L$WQ:L=>/-895(W(5U16?%:`%O:L)""`?\\?A>(?N*K[LFW*:$
M-Y#G^BIDTS\$TZ3)+EY'#2GE*
M&TG^NT@P;367X>XA@K>D([TZ+%BXIP@Z\S(IF#BU&%=^GM(&UY(P0'OT,(*#
MNVKH!Q-@S#&6)\NQ#-Q5PC\P20?[-_]O_T@QGI%S2J%M8Z+<1L\4VK:-W^)E
MSMI=FCC]6/T5]IO*)C@ZIR8^)\B8=X2
ML5R<50(UR%N@3Q[0]`><2(IP\6.Z@DW`=ILC+FAQY/:/Q0$&7AF.^XZ&-A+A9R+)9T'CGJAB;#1?5VO?'Z`W5Q0C5BC.;@V#C6"
MP.NQ\#](C?N(8LP39`@7!'O]0VOPA9-68B1$OVW8D#MN$=U<
MG+!L]2'[4!07.;]6#QG[V5PQ;!@C.3EI'S:R])O)""Z.6TN]T6%)(9G7-_N5
M3J`#29/'$+L[](XR;ZA78HV+DQWG58UP5F
MF6_:E]MMB%Y>:H,+[HT`G3;WHZDNZ#BFU6D@Y*?,Q?<=#48=8UIW!QWUTU"'
MA*#J5/%HU92Y1BOXC8VO=.9A'GMJVF4$X/"XM:6:G!SZ-BEK?W_;0BV.=]:!
MUUP,NJL%M7,=MGK);@FI69-YY\VG[N1C4MK-66>XY5).%=F;V,_M3K)/Y>GI`CFYUHW3V@I%PV_1W#G4T[8]0/,3C1&M<6C:/U41EAIT[?5:MS*"I
M3O1]A\EB^ZK6U_SOH/4[1.8X[U[YV`R[UBKK=2]5C!8(CBK!M5/?&]F$EA1,
M7=/5#5Y6>TD"[\,MFB?CAN=I"T(G)]RF_>I3D_XRK@T'0BN5BU;YNYNKS6B>
M1&'DPT&>[\--^\K5VA>U9$C@$EY#39;`,RCL)I*_TS*RLT_\U2G?'GC4SNG.
M`0>]3K9RKW&'_(4GC
M=+YB\W0W;%JR5\/R+EDRL!P.=Y&.[\Q)7!+T:X)BNH:`&PZ'";_DP`\@@6]Y
M(BD!:D/DEK#T6P`WN7#&_DM76G2H]_-C2-BH$-.DN%L"5@\`-:]EGJ6$;M,2
MGJ?&7S7/9:HN'8UE((Y-SKZV:2?AYHJND%O&9=L
M'QQH?#M)QZ8G4!2>@R%^7D3
M3U7&+5$R/X4NHQ"@\\6E9O]VGSZS=/.0/1U"KW,(995D&"[FDD#_@Q8+3,X3
M7Y)!^O**S?YY-_,?\`+1/_\/4$L!`AX#%`````@`HX'Z0`O@>ZU2Z`(`SQDW
M`!$`&````````0```*2!`````&US9G0M,C`Q,C`V,S`N>&UL550%``/1I!%0
M=7@+``$$)0X```0Y`0``4$L!`AX#%`````@`HX'Z0`Q,.O-:)```+B\"`!4`
M&````````0```*2!G>@"`&US9G0M,C`Q,C`V,S!?8V%L+GAM;%54!0`#T:01
M4'5X"P`!!"4.```$.0$``%!+`0(>`Q0````(`*.!^D"3HY&^(H```'^D"@`5
M`!@```````$```"D@48-`P!M`L``00E#@``!#D!``!02P$"'@,4````"`"C@?I`RN!S-]T#`0"4Q`X`
M%0`8```````!````I(&WC0,`;7-F="TR,#$R,#8S,%]L86(N>&UL550%``/1
MI!%0=7@+``$$)0X```0Y`0``4$L!`AX#%`````@`HX'Z0.`Q0````(`*.!^D#:,`KZ_"4``(KR
M`0`1`!@```````$```"D@2L:!0!M


XML
127
R49.htm
IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT


/* Do Not Remove This Comment */
v2.4.0.6












XML
128
R105.htm
IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT


/* Do Not Remove This Comment */
v2.4.0.6















XML
129
R41.htm
IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT


/* Do Not Remove This Comment */
v2.4.0.6








XML
130
R107.htm
IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT


/* Do Not Remove This Comment */
v2.4.0.6










XML
131
R5.htm
IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT


/* Do Not Remove This Comment */
v2.4.0.6














































XML
132
R88.htm
IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT


/* Do Not Remove This Comment */
v2.4.0.6









XML
133
R10.htm
IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT


/* Do Not Remove This Comment */
v2.4.0.6






XML
134
R58.htm
IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT


/* Do Not Remove This Comment */
v2.4.0.6










XML
135
R82.htm
IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT


/* Do Not Remove This Comment */
v2.4.0.6








XML
136
R106.htm
IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT


/* Do Not Remove This Comment */
v2.4.0.6











XML
137
R69.htm
IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT


/* Do Not Remove This Comment */
v2.4.0.6








XML
138
R27.htm
IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT


/* Do Not Remove This Comment */
v2.4.0.6






XML
139
FilingSummary.xml
IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT




2.4.0.6

Html
695
499
1
true
147
0
false
8


false
false
R1.htm
1001 - Document - Document and Entity Information
Sheet
http://www.microsoft.com/taxonomy/role/DocumentDocumentandEntityInformation
Document and Entity Information


false
false
R2.htm
1003 - Statement - Income Statements
Sheet
http://www.microsoft.com/taxonomy/role/StatementOfIncomeAlternative
Income Statements


true
false
R3.htm
1004 - Statement - Balance Sheets
Sheet
http://www.microsoft.com/taxonomy/role/StatementOfFinancialPositionClassified
Balance Sheets


false
false
R4.htm
1005 - Statement - Balance Sheets (Parenthetical)
Sheet
http://www.microsoft.com/taxonomy/role/StatementOfFinancialPositionClassifiedParenthetical
Balance Sheets (Parenthetical)


false
false
R5.htm
1006 - Statement - Cash Flows Statements
Sheet
http://www.microsoft.com/taxonomy/role/StatementOfCashFlowsIndirect
Cash Flows Statements


false
false
R6.htm
1007 - Statement - Stockholders' Equity Statements
Sheet
http://www.microsoft.com/taxonomy/role/StatementOfShareholdersEquityAndOtherComprehensiveIncome
Stockholders' Equity Statements


false
false
R7.htm
1008 - Disclosure - Accounting Policies
Sheet
http://www.microsoft.com/taxonomy/role/NotesToFinancialStatementsSignificantAccountingPoliciesTextBlock
Accounting Policies


false
false
R8.htm
1009 - Disclosure - Earnings Per Share
Sheet
http://www.microsoft.com/taxonomy/role/NotesToFinancialStatementsEarningsPerShareTextBlock
Earnings Per Share


false
false
R9.htm
1010 - Disclosure - Other Income (Expense)
Sheet
http://www.microsoft.com/taxonomy/role/NotesToFinancialStatementsOtherIncomeAndOtherExpenseDisclosureTextBlock
Other Income (Expense)


false
false
R10.htm
1011 - Disclosure - Investments
Sheet
http://www.microsoft.com/taxonomy/role/NotesToFinancialStatementsCashCashEquivalentsAndMarketableSecuritiesTextBlock
Investments


false
false
R11.htm
1012 - Disclosure - Derivatives
Sheet
http://www.microsoft.com/taxonomy/role/NotesToFinancialStatementsDerivativeInstrumentsAndHedgingActivitiesDisclosureTextBlock
Derivatives


false
false
R12.htm
1013 - Disclosure - Fair Value Measurements
Sheet
http://www.microsoft.com/taxonomy/role/NotesToFinancialStatementsFairValueDisclosuresTextBlock
Fair Value Measurements


false
false
R13.htm
1014 - Disclosure - Inventories
Sheet
http://www.microsoft.com/taxonomy/role/NotesToFinancialStatementsInventoryDisclosureTextBlock
Inventories


false
false
R14.htm
1015 - Disclosure - Property And Equipment
Sheet
http://www.microsoft.com/taxonomy/role/NotesToFinancialStatementsPropertyPlantAndEquipmentDisclosureTextBlock
Property And Equipment


false
false
R15.htm
1016 - Disclosure - Business Combinations
Sheet
http://www.microsoft.com/taxonomy/role/NotesToFinancialStatementsMergersAcquisitionsAndDispositionsDisclosuresTextBlock
Business Combinations


false
false
R16.htm
1017 - Disclosure - Goodwill
Sheet
http://www.microsoft.com/taxonomy/role/NotesToFinancialStatementsGoodwillDisclosureTextBlock
Goodwill


false
false
R17.htm
1018 - Disclosure - Intangible Assets
Sheet
http://www.microsoft.com/taxonomy/role/NotesToFinancialStatementsIntangibleAssetsDisclosureTextBlock
Intangible Assets


false
false
R18.htm
1019 - Disclosure - Debt
Sheet
http://www.microsoft.com/taxonomy/role/NotesToFinancialStatementsDebtDisclosureTextBlock
Debt


false
false
R19.htm
1020 - Disclosure - Income Taxes
Sheet
http://www.microsoft.com/taxonomy/role/NotesToFinancialStatementsIncomeTaxDisclosureTextBlock
Income Taxes


false
false
R20.htm
1021 - Disclosure - Unearned Revenue
Sheet
http://www.microsoft.com/taxonomy/role/NotesToFinancialStatementsDeferredRevenueDisclosureTextBlock
Unearned Revenue


false
false
R21.htm
1022 - Disclosure - Other Long-Term Liabilities
Sheet
http://www.microsoft.com/taxonomy/role/NotesToFinancialStatementsOtherLiabilitiesDisclosureTextBlock
Other Long-Term Liabilities


false
false
R22.htm
1023 - Disclosure - Commitments And Guarantees
Sheet
http://www.microsoft.com/taxonomy/role/NotesToFinancialStatementsCommitmentsAndGuaranteesDisclosureTextBlock
Commitments And Guarantees


false
false
R23.htm
1024 - Disclosure - Contingencies
Sheet
http://www.microsoft.com/taxonomy/role/NotesToFinancialStatementsLegalMattersAndContingenciesTextBlock
Contingencies


false
false
R24.htm
1025 - Disclosure - Stockholders' Equity
Sheet
http://www.microsoft.com/taxonomy/role/NotesToFinancialStatementsStockholdersEquityNoteDisclosureTextBlock
Stockholders' Equity


false
false
R25.htm
1026 - Disclosure - Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)
Sheet
http://www.microsoft.com/taxonomy/role/NotesToFinancialStatementsComprehensiveIncomeNoteTextBlock
Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)


false
false
R26.htm
1027 - Disclosure - Employee Stock and Savings Plans
Sheet
http://www.microsoft.com/taxonomy/role/NotesToFinancialStatementsCompensationAndEmployeeBenefitPlansTextBlock
Employee Stock and Savings Plans


false
false
R27.htm
1028 - Disclosure - Segment Information and Geographic Data
Sheet
http://www.microsoft.com/taxonomy/role/NotesToFinancialStatementsSegmentReportingDisclosureTextBlock
Segment Information and Geographic Data


false
false
R28.htm
1029 - Disclosure - Subsequent Event
Sheet
http://www.microsoft.com/taxonomy/role/NotesToFinancialStatementsSubsequentEventsTextBlock
Subsequent Event


false
false
R29.htm
1030 - Disclosure - Quarterly Information (Unaudited)
Sheet
http://www.microsoft.com/taxonomy/role/NotesToFinancialStatementsQuarterlyFinancialInformationTextBlock
Quarterly Information (Unaudited)


false
false
R30.htm
1031 - Disclosure - Accounting Policies (Policies)
Sheet
http://www.microsoft.com/taxonomy/role/NotesToFinancialStatementsSignificantAccountingPoliciesTextBlockPolicies
Accounting Policies (Policies)


false
false
R31.htm
1032 - Disclosure - Accounting Policies (Tables)
Sheet
http://www.microsoft.com/taxonomy/role/NotesToFinancialStatementsSignificantAccountingPoliciesTextBlockTables
Accounting Policies (Tables)


false
false
R32.htm
1033 - Disclosure - Earnings Per Share (Tables)
Sheet
http://www.microsoft.com/taxonomy/role/NotesToFinancialStatementsEarningsPerShareTextBlockTables
Earnings Per Share (Tables)


false
false
R33.htm
1034 - Disclosure - Other Income (Expense) (Tables)
Sheet
http://www.microsoft.com/taxonomy/role/NotesToFinancialStatementsOtherIncomeAndOtherExpenseDisclosureTextBlockTables
Other Income (Expense) (Tables)


false
false
R34.htm
1035 - Disclosure - Investments (Tables)
Sheet
http://www.microsoft.com/taxonomy/role/NotesToFinancialStatementsCashCashEquivalentsAndMarketableSecuritiesTextBlockTables
Investments (Tables)


false
false
R35.htm
1036 - Disclosure - Derivatives (Tables)
Sheet
http://www.microsoft.com/taxonomy/role/NotesToFinancialStatementsDerivativeInstrumentsAndHedgingActivitiesDisclosureTextBlockTables
Derivatives (Tables)


false
false
R36.htm
1037 - Disclosure - Fair Value Measurements (Tables)
Sheet
http://www.microsoft.com/taxonomy/role/NotesToFinancialStatementsFairValueDisclosuresTextBlockTables
Fair Value Measurements (Tables)


false
false
R37.htm
1038 - Disclosure - Inventories (Tables)
Sheet
http://www.microsoft.com/taxonomy/role/NotesToFinancialStatementsInventoryDisclosureTextBlockTables
Inventories (Tables)


false
false
R38.htm
1039 - Disclosure - Property And Equipment (Tables)
Sheet
http://www.microsoft.com/taxonomy/role/NotesToFinancialStatementsPropertyPlantAndEquipmentDisclosureTextBlockTables
Property And Equipment (Tables)


false
false
R39.htm
1040 - Disclosure - Business Combinations (Tables)
Sheet
http://www.microsoft.com/taxonomy/role/NotesToFinancialStatementsMergersAcquisitionsAndDispositionsDisclosuresTextBlockTables
Business Combinations (Tables)


false
false
R40.htm
1041 - Disclosure - Goodwill (Tables)
Sheet
http://www.microsoft.com/taxonomy/role/NotesToFinancialStatementsGoodwillDisclosureTextBlockTables
Goodwill (Tables)


false
false
R41.htm
1042 - Disclosure - Intangible Assets (Tables)
Sheet
http://www.microsoft.com/taxonomy/role/NotesToFinancialStatementsIntangibleAssetsDisclosureTextBlockTables
Intangible Assets (Tables)


false
false
R42.htm
1043 - Disclosure - Debt (Tables)
Sheet
http://www.microsoft.com/taxonomy/role/NotesToFinancialStatementsDebtDisclosureTextBlockTables
Debt (Tables)


false
false
R43.htm
1044 - Disclosure - Income Taxes (Tables)
Sheet
http://www.microsoft.com/taxonomy/role/NotesToFinancialStatementsIncomeTaxDisclosureTextBlockTables
Income Taxes (Tables)


false
false
R44.htm
1045 - Disclosure - Unearned Revenue (Tables)
Sheet
http://www.microsoft.com/taxonomy/role/NotesToFinancialStatementsDeferredRevenueDisclosureTextBlockTables
Unearned Revenue (Tables)


false
false
R45.htm
1046 - Disclosure - Other Long-Term Liabilities (Tables)
Sheet
http://www.microsoft.com/taxonomy/role/NotesToFinancialStatementsOtherLiabilitiesDisclosureTextBlockTables
Other Long-Term Liabilities (Tables)


false
false
R46.htm
1047 - Disclosure - Commitments And Guarantees (Tables)
Sheet
http://www.microsoft.com/taxonomy/role/NotesToFinancialStatementsCommitmentsAndGuaranteesDisclosureTextBlockTables
Commitments And Guarantees (Tables)


false
false
R47.htm
1048 - Disclosure - Stockholders' Equity (Tables)
Sheet
http://www.microsoft.com/taxonomy/role/NotesToFinancialStatementsStockholdersEquityNoteDisclosureTextBlockTables
Stockholders' Equity (Tables)


false
false
R48.htm
1049 - Disclosure - Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) (Tables)
Sheet
http://www.microsoft.com/taxonomy/role/NotesToFinancialStatementsComprehensiveIncomeNoteTextBlockTables
Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) (Tables)


false
false
R49.htm
1050 - Disclosure - Employee Stock and Savings Plans (Tables)
Sheet
http://www.microsoft.com/taxonomy/role/NotesToFinancialStatementsCompensationAndEmployeeBenefitPlansTextBlockTables
Employee Stock and Savings Plans (Tables)


false
false
R50.htm
1051 - Disclosure - Segment Information and Geographic Data (Tables)
Sheet
http://www.microsoft.com/taxonomy/role/NotesToFinancialStatementsSegmentReportingDisclosureTextBlockTables
Segment Information and Geographic Data (Tables)


false
false
R51.htm
1052 - Disclosure - Quarterly Information (Unaudited) (Tables)
Sheet
http://www.microsoft.com/taxonomy/role/NotesToFinancialStatementsQuarterlyFinancialInformationTextBlockTables
Quarterly Information (Unaudited) (Tables)


false
false
R52.htm
1053 - Disclosure - Accounting Policies - Additional Information (Detail)
Sheet
http://www.microsoft.com/taxonomy/role/DisclosureAccountingPoliciesAdditionalInformation
Accounting Policies - Additional Information (Detail)


false
false
R53.htm
1054 - Disclosure - Allowance for Doubtful Accounts (Detail)
Sheet
http://www.microsoft.com/taxonomy/role/DisclosureAllowanceForDoubtfulAccounts
Allowance for Doubtful Accounts (Detail)


false
false
R54.htm
1055 - Disclosure - Basic and Diluted Earnings Per Share (Detail)
Sheet
http://www.microsoft.com/taxonomy/role/DisclosureBasicAndDilutedEarningsPerShare
Basic and Diluted Earnings Per Share (Detail)


false
false
R55.htm
1056 - Disclosure - Shares Excluded From Calculation of EPS (Detail)
Sheet
http://www.microsoft.com/taxonomy/role/DisclosureSharesExcludedFromCalculationOfEPS
Shares Excluded From Calculation of EPS (Detail)


false
false
R56.htm
1057 - Disclosure - Earnings Per Share - Additional Information (Detail)
Sheet
http://www.microsoft.com/taxonomy/role/DisclosureEarningsPerShareAdditionalInformation
Earnings Per Share - Additional Information (Detail)


false
false
R57.htm
1058 - Disclosure - Components of Other Income (Expense) (Detail)
Sheet
http://www.microsoft.com/taxonomy/role/DisclosureComponentsOfOtherIncomeExpense
Components of Other Income (Expense) (Detail)


false
false
R58.htm
1059 - Disclosure - Net Recognized Gains (Losses) on Investments (Detail)
Sheet
http://www.microsoft.com/taxonomy/role/DisclosureNetRecognizedGainsLossesOnInvestments
Net Recognized Gains (Losses) on Investments (Detail)


false
false
R59.htm
1060 - Disclosure - Investment Components, Including Associated Derivatives (Detail)
Sheet
http://www.microsoft.com/taxonomy/role/DisclosureInvestmentComponentsIncludingAssociatedDerivatives
Investment Components, Including Associated Derivatives (Detail)


false
false
R60.htm
1061 - Disclosure - Unrealized Loss Position Investments (Detail)
Sheet
http://www.microsoft.com/taxonomy/role/DisclosureUnrealizedLossPositionInvestments
Unrealized Loss Position Investments (Detail)


false
false
R61.htm
1062 - Disclosure - Investments - Additional Information (Detail)
Sheet
http://www.microsoft.com/taxonomy/role/DisclosureInvestmentsAdditionalInformation
Investments - Additional Information (Detail)


false
false
R62.htm
1063 - Disclosure - Debt Investment Maturities (Detail)
Sheet
http://www.microsoft.com/taxonomy/role/DisclosureDebtInvestmentMaturities
Debt Investment Maturities (Detail)


false
false
R63.htm
1064 - Disclosure - Derivatives - Additional Information (Detail)
Sheet
http://www.microsoft.com/taxonomy/role/DisclosureDerivativesAdditionalInformation
Derivatives - Additional Information (Detail)


false
false
R64.htm
1065 - Disclosure - Fair Values of Derivative Instruments (Detail)
Sheet
http://www.microsoft.com/taxonomy/role/DisclosureFairValuesOfDerivativeInstruments
Fair Values of Derivative Instruments (Detail)


false
false
R65.htm
1066 - Disclosure - Gains (Losses) on Fair Value Hedges and Related Hedged Items (Detail)
Sheet
http://www.microsoft.com/taxonomy/role/DisclosureGainsLossesOnFairValueHedgesAndRelatedHedgedItems
Gains (Losses) on Fair Value Hedges and Related Hedged Items (Detail)


false
false
R66.htm
1067 - Disclosure - Gains (Losses) Related to Cash Flow Hedges (Detail)
Sheet
http://www.microsoft.com/taxonomy/role/DisclosureGainsLossesRelatedToCashFlowHedges
Gains (Losses) Related to Cash Flow Hedges (Detail)


false
false
R67.htm
1068 - Disclosure - Gains (Losses) Related to Cash Flow Hedges (Parenthetical) (Detail)
Sheet
http://www.microsoft.com/taxonomy/role/DisclosureGainsLossesRelatedToCashFlowHedgesParenthetical
Gains (Losses) Related to Cash Flow Hedges (Parenthetical) (Detail)


false
false
R68.htm
1069 - Disclosure - Non-Designated Derivative Gains (Losses) (Detail)
Sheet
http://www.microsoft.com/taxonomy/role/DisclosureNonDesignatedDerivativeGainsLosses
Non-Designated Derivative Gains (Losses) (Detail)


false
false
R69.htm
1070 - Disclosure - Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on Recurring Basis (Detail)
Sheet
http://www.microsoft.com/taxonomy/role/DisclosureAssetsAndLiabilitiesMeasuredAtFairValueOnRecurringBasis
Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on Recurring Basis (Detail)


false
false
R70.htm
1071 - Disclosure - Reconciliation of Total Assets Measured at Fair Value on Recurring Basis to Balance Sheet Presentation (Detail)
Sheet
http://www.microsoft.com/taxonomy/role/DisclosureReconciliationOfTotalAssetsMeasuredAtFairValueOnRecurringBasisToBalanceSheetPresentation
Reconciliation of Total Assets Measured at Fair Value on Recurring Basis to Balance Sheet Presentation (Detail)


false
false
R71.htm
1072 - Disclosure - Changes in Financial Instruments Measured at Level 3 Fair Value on Recurring Basis (Detail)
Sheet
http://www.microsoft.com/taxonomy/role/DisclosureChangesInFinancialInstrumentsMeasuredAtLevel3FairValueOnRecurringBasis
Changes in Financial Instruments Measured at Level 3 Fair Value on Recurring Basis (Detail)


false
false
R72.htm
1073 - Disclosure - Components of Inventories (Detail)
Sheet
http://www.microsoft.com/taxonomy/role/DisclosureComponentsOfInventories
Components of Inventories (Detail)


false
false
R73.htm
1074 - Disclosure - Components of Property and Equipment (Detail)
Sheet
http://www.microsoft.com/taxonomy/role/DisclosureComponentsOfPropertyAndEquipment
Components of Property and Equipment (Detail)


false
false
R74.htm
1075 - Disclosure - Property and Equipment - Additional Information (Detail)
Sheet
http://www.microsoft.com/taxonomy/role/DisclosurePropertyAndEquipmentAdditionalInformation
Property and Equipment - Additional Information (Detail)


false
false
R75.htm
1076 - Disclosure - Business Combinations - Additional Information (Detail)
Sheet
http://www.microsoft.com/taxonomy/role/DisclosureBusinessCombinationsAdditionalInformation
Business Combinations - Additional Information (Detail)


false
false
R76.htm
1077 - Disclosure - Acquired Intangible Assets (Detail)
Sheet
http://www.microsoft.com/taxonomy/role/DisclosureAcquiredIntangibleAssets
Acquired Intangible Assets (Detail)


false
false
R77.htm
1078 - Disclosure - Carrying Amount of Goodwill (Detail)
Sheet
http://www.microsoft.com/taxonomy/role/DisclosureCarryingAmountOfGoodwill
Carrying Amount of Goodwill (Detail)


false
false
R78.htm
1079 - Disclosure - Goodwill - Additional Information (Detail)
Sheet
http://www.microsoft.com/taxonomy/role/DisclosureGoodwillAdditionalInformation
Goodwill - Additional Information (Detail)


false
false
R79.htm
1080 - Disclosure - Finite-Lived Intangible Assets (Detail)
Sheet
http://www.microsoft.com/taxonomy/role/DisclosureFiniteLivedIntangibleAssets
Finite-Lived Intangible Assets (Detail)


false
false
R80.htm
1081 - Disclosure - Finite-Lived Intangible Assets (Parenthetical) (Detail)
Sheet
http://www.microsoft.com/taxonomy/role/DisclosureFiniteLivedIntangibleAssetsParenthetical
Finite-Lived Intangible Assets (Parenthetical) (Detail)


false
false
R81.htm
1082 - Disclosure - Intangible Assets Acquired (Detail)
Sheet
http://www.microsoft.com/taxonomy/role/DisclosureIntangibleAssetsAcquired
Intangible Assets Acquired (Detail)


false
false
R82.htm
1083 - Disclosure - Intangible Assets - Additional Information (Detail)
Sheet
http://www.microsoft.com/taxonomy/role/DisclosureIntangibleAssetsAdditionalInformation
Intangible Assets - Additional Information (Detail)


false
false
R83.htm
1084 - Disclosure - Estimated Future Amortization Expense Related to Intangible Assets (Detail)
Sheet
http://www.microsoft.com/taxonomy/role/DisclosureEstimatedFutureAmortizationExpenseRelatedToIntangibleAssets
Estimated Future Amortization Expense Related to Intangible Assets (Detail)


false
false
R84.htm
1085 - Disclosure - Debt - Additional Information (Detail)
Sheet
http://www.microsoft.com/taxonomy/role/DisclosureDebtAdditionalInformation
Debt - Additional Information (Detail)


false
false
R85.htm
1086 - Disclosure - Long-term Debt (Detail)
Sheet
http://www.microsoft.com/taxonomy/role/DisclosureLongtermDebt
Long-term Debt (Detail)


false
false
R86.htm
1087 - Disclosure - Maturities of Long-term Debt (Detail)
Sheet
http://www.microsoft.com/taxonomy/role/DisclosureMaturitiesOfLongtermDebt
Maturities of Long-term Debt (Detail)


false
false
R87.htm
1088 - Disclosure - Provision for Income Taxes (Detail)
Sheet
http://www.microsoft.com/taxonomy/role/DisclosureProvisionForIncomeTaxes
Provision for Income Taxes (Detail)


false
false
R88.htm
1089 - Disclosure - Income Before Income Taxes (Detail)
Sheet
http://www.microsoft.com/taxonomy/role/DisclosureIncomeBeforeIncomeTaxes
Income Before Income Taxes (Detail)


false
false
R89.htm
1090 - Disclosure - Difference Between Income Taxes Computed at Federal Statutory Rate and Provision for Income Taxes (Detail)
Sheet
http://www.microsoft.com/taxonomy/role/DisclosureDifferenceBetweenIncomeTaxesComputedAtFederalStatutoryRateAndProvisionForIncomeTaxes
Difference Between Income Taxes Computed at Federal Statutory Rate and Provision for Income Taxes (Detail)


false
false
R90.htm
1091 - Disclosure - Deferred Income Tax Assets and Liabilities (Detail)
Sheet
http://www.microsoft.com/taxonomy/role/DisclosureDeferredIncomeTaxAssetsAndLiabilities
Deferred Income Tax Assets and Liabilities (Detail)


false
false
R91.htm
1092 - Disclosure - Income Taxes - Additional Information (Detail)
Sheet
http://www.microsoft.com/taxonomy/role/DisclosureIncomeTaxesAdditionalInformation
Income Taxes - Additional Information (Detail)


false
false
R92.htm
1093 - Disclosure - Changes in Unrecognized Tax Benefits (Detail)
Sheet
http://www.microsoft.com/taxonomy/role/DisclosureChangesInUnrecognizedTaxBenefits
Changes in Unrecognized Tax Benefits (Detail)


false
false
R93.htm
1094 - Disclosure - Income Taxes - Additional Information Regarding Examinations (Detail)
Sheet
http://www.microsoft.com/taxonomy/role/DisclosureIncomeTaxesAdditionalInformationRegardingExaminations
Income Taxes - Additional Information Regarding Examinations (Detail)


false
false
R94.htm
1095 - Disclosure - Components of Unearned Revenue (Detail)
Sheet
http://www.microsoft.com/taxonomy/role/DisclosureComponentsOfUnearnedRevenue
Components of Unearned Revenue (Detail)


false
false
R95.htm
1096 - Disclosure - Components of Unearned Revenue (Parenthetical) (Detail)
Sheet
http://www.microsoft.com/taxonomy/role/DisclosureComponentsOfUnearnedRevenueParenthetical
Components of Unearned Revenue (Parenthetical) (Detail)


false
false
R96.htm
1097 - Disclosure - Unearned Revenue by Segment (Detail)
Sheet
http://www.microsoft.com/taxonomy/role/DisclosureUnearnedRevenueBySegment
Unearned Revenue by Segment (Detail)


false
false
R97.htm
1098 - Disclosure - Other Long-Term Liabilities (Detail)
Sheet
http://www.microsoft.com/taxonomy/role/DisclosureOtherLongTermLiabilities
Other Long-Term Liabilities (Detail)


false
false
R98.htm
1099 - Disclosure - Commitments And Guarantees - Additional Information (Detail)
Sheet
http://www.microsoft.com/taxonomy/role/DisclosureCommitmentsAndGuaranteesAdditionalInformation
Commitments And Guarantees - Additional Information (Detail)


false
false
R99.htm
1100 - Disclosure - Future Minimum Rental Commitments Under Noncancellable Operating Leases (Detail)
Sheet
http://www.microsoft.com/taxonomy/role/DisclosureFutureMinimumRentalCommitmentsUnderNoncancellableOperatingLeases
Future Minimum Rental Commitments Under Noncancellable Operating Leases (Detail)


false
false
R100.htm
1101 - Disclosure - Contingencies - Additional Information (Detail)
Sheet
http://www.microsoft.com/taxonomy/role/DisclosureContingenciesAdditionalInformation
Contingencies - Additional Information (Detail)


false
false
R101.htm
1102 - Disclosure - Shares of Common Stock Outstanding (Detail)
Sheet
http://www.microsoft.com/taxonomy/role/DisclosureSharesOfCommonStockOutstanding
Shares of Common Stock Outstanding (Detail)


false
false
R102.htm
1103 - Disclosure - Stockholders' Equity - Additional Information (Detail)
Sheet
http://www.microsoft.com/taxonomy/role/DisclosureStockholdersEquityAdditionalInformation
Stockholders' Equity - Additional Information (Detail)


false
false
R103.htm
1104 - Disclosure - Share Repurchases (Detail)
Sheet
http://www.microsoft.com/taxonomy/role/DisclosureShareRepurchases
Share Repurchases (Detail)


false
false
R104.htm
1105 - Disclosure - Dividends Declared (Detail)
Sheet
http://www.microsoft.com/taxonomy/role/DisclosureDividendsDeclared
Dividends Declared (Detail)


false
false
R105.htm
1106 - Disclosure - Other Comprehensive Income and Related Income Tax Effects (Detail)
Sheet
http://www.microsoft.com/taxonomy/role/DisclosureOtherComprehensiveIncomeAndRelatedIncomeTaxEffects
Other Comprehensive Income and Related Income Tax Effects (Detail)


false
false
R106.htm
1107 - Disclosure - Other Comprehensive Income and Related Income Tax Effects (Parenthetical) (Detail)
Sheet
http://www.microsoft.com/taxonomy/role/DisclosureOtherComprehensiveIncomeAndRelatedIncomeTaxEffectsParenthetical
Other Comprehensive Income and Related Income Tax Effects (Parenthetical) (Detail)


false
false
R107.htm
1108 - Disclosure - Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Detail)
Sheet
http://www.microsoft.com/taxonomy/role/DisclosureAccumulatedOtherComprehensiveIncome
Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Detail)


false
false
R108.htm
1109 - Disclosure - Employee Stock and Savings Plans - Additional Information (Detail)
Sheet
http://www.microsoft.com/taxonomy/role/DisclosureEmployeeStockAndSavingsPlansAdditionalInformation
Employee Stock and Savings Plans - Additional Information (Detail)


false
false
R109.htm
1110 - Disclosure - Stock-Based Compensation Expense and Related Income Tax Benefits (Detail)
Sheet
http://www.microsoft.com/taxonomy/role/DisclosureStockBasedCompensationExpenseAndRelatedIncomeTaxBenefits
Stock-Based Compensation Expense and Related Income Tax Benefits (Detail)


false
false
R110.htm
1111 - Disclosure - Assumptions Used in Estimating Fair Value of Award Grants (Detail)
Sheet
http://www.microsoft.com/taxonomy/role/DisclosureAssumptionsUsedInEstimatingFairValueOfAwardGrants
Assumptions Used in Estimating Fair Value of Award Grants (Detail)


false
false
R111.htm
1112 - Disclosure - Stock Plan Activity (Detail)
Sheet
http://www.microsoft.com/taxonomy/role/DisclosureStockPlanActivity
Stock Plan Activity (Detail)


false
false
R112.htm
1113 - Disclosure - Share Based Compensation Plans Total Activity (Detail)
Sheet
http://www.microsoft.com/taxonomy/role/DisclosureShareBasedCompensationPlansTotalActivity
Share Based Compensation Plans Total Activity (Detail)


false
false
R113.htm
1114 - Disclosure - Employee Stock Options Outstanding (Detail)
Sheet
http://www.microsoft.com/taxonomy/role/DisclosureEmployeeStockOptionsOutstanding
Employee Stock Options Outstanding (Detail)


false
false
R114.htm
1115 - Disclosure - Stock Option Exercise Activity (Detail)
Sheet
http://www.microsoft.com/taxonomy/role/DisclosureStockOptionExerciseActivity
Stock Option Exercise Activity (Detail)


false
false
R115.htm
1116 - Disclosure - Employee Purchased Shares (Detail)
Sheet
http://www.microsoft.com/taxonomy/role/DisclosureEmployeePurchasedShares
Employee Purchased Shares (Detail)


false
false
R116.htm
1117 - Disclosure - Segment Information and Geographic Data - Additional Information (Detail)
Sheet
http://www.microsoft.com/taxonomy/role/DisclosureSegmentInformationAndGeographicDataAdditionalInformation
Segment Information and Geographic Data - Additional Information (Detail)


false
false
R117.htm
1118 - Disclosure - Segment Revenue and Operating Income (Loss) (Detail)
Sheet
http://www.microsoft.com/taxonomy/role/DisclosureSegmentRevenueAndOperatingIncomeLoss
Segment Revenue and Operating Income (Loss) (Detail)


false
false
R118.htm
1119 - Disclosure - Significant Reconciling Items (Detail)
Sheet
http://www.microsoft.com/taxonomy/role/DisclosureSignificantReconcilingItems
Significant Reconciling Items (Detail)


false
false
R119.htm
1120 - Disclosure - Revenue Classified by Major Geographic Areas (Detail)
Sheet
http://www.microsoft.com/taxonomy/role/DisclosureRevenueClassifiedByMajorGeographicAreas
Revenue Classified by Major Geographic Areas (Detail)


false
false
R120.htm
1121 - Disclosure - Revenue Classified By Significant Product And Service Offerings (Detail)
Sheet
http://www.microsoft.com/taxonomy/role/DisclosureRevenueClassifiedBySignificantProductAndServiceOfferings
Revenue Classified By Significant Product And Service Offerings (Detail)


false
false
R121.htm
1122 - Disclosure - Long-Lived Assets, Excluding Financial Instruments and Tax Assets, Classified by Location of Controlling Statutory Company (Detail)
Sheet
http://www.microsoft.com/taxonomy/role/DisclosureLongLivedAssetsExcludingFinancialInstrumentsAndTaxAssetsClassifiedByLocationOfControllingStatutoryCompany
Long-Lived Assets, Excluding Financial Instruments and Tax Assets, Classified by Location of Controlling Statutory Company (Detail)


false
false
R122.htm
1123 - Disclosure - Subsequent Events - Additional Information (Detail)
Sheet
http://www.microsoft.com/taxonomy/role/DisclosureSubsequentEventsAdditionalInformation
Subsequent Events - Additional Information (Detail)


false
false
R123.htm
1124 - Disclosure - Quarterly Information (Unaudited) (Detail)
Sheet
http://www.microsoft.com/taxonomy/role/DisclosureQuarterlyInformationUnaudited
Quarterly Information (Unaudited) (Detail)


false
false
R124.htm
1125 - Disclosure - Quarterly Information (Unaudited) (Parenthetical) (Detail)
Sheet
http://www.microsoft.com/taxonomy/role/DisclosureQuarterlyInformationUnauditedParenthetical
Quarterly Information (Unaudited) (Parenthetical) (Detail)


false
false
All Reports
Book
All Reports



Element invest_DerivativeNotionalAmount had a mix of decimals attribute values: -8 -6.
Element us-gaap_BusinessAcquisitionPurchasePriceAllocationGoodwillAmount had a mix of decimals attribute values: -8 -6.
Element us-gaap_DebtInstrumentFaceAmount had a mix of decimals attribute values: -7 -6.
Element us-gaap_EmployeeServiceShareBasedCompensationNonvestedAwardsTotalCompensationCostNotYetRecognized had a mix of decimals attribute values: -8 -6.
Element us-gaap_NotionalAmountOfInterestRateDerivativeInstrumentsNotDesignatedAsHedgingInstruments had a mix of decimals attribute values: -8 -6.
Element us-gaap_ProceedsFromConvertibleDebt had a mix of decimals attribute values: -7 -6.
'Monetary' elements on report '1064 - Disclosure - Derivatives - Additional Information (Detail)' had a mix of different decimal attribute values.
'Monetary' elements on report '1085 - Disclosure - Debt - Additional Information (Detail)' had a mix of different decimal attribute values.
'Monetary' elements on report '1092 - Disclosure - Income Taxes - Additional Information (Detail)' had a mix of different decimal attribute values.
'Monetary' elements on report '1101 - Disclosure - Contingencies - Additional Information (Detail)' had a mix of different decimal attribute values.
Process Flow-Through: 1003 - Statement - Income Statements
	Process Flow-Through: Removing column '3 Months Ended
Jun. 30, 2012'
	Process Flow-Through: Removing column '3 Months Ended
Mar. 31, 2012'
	Process Flow-Through: Removing column '3 Months Ended
Dec. 31, 2011'
	Process Flow-Through: Removing column '3 Months Ended
Sep. 30, 2011'
	Process Flow-Through: Removing column '3 Months Ended
Jun. 30, 2011'
	Process Flow-Through: Removing column '3 Months Ended
Mar. 31, 2011'
	Process Flow-Through: Removing column '3 Months Ended
Dec. 31, 2010'
	Process Flow-Through: Removing column '3 Months Ended
Sep. 30, 2010'
Process Flow-Through: 1004 - Statement - Balance Sheets
	Process Flow-Through: Removing column 'Jun. 30, 2010'
	Process Flow-Through: Removing column 'Jun. 30, 2009'
Process Flow-Through: 1005 - Statement - Balance Sheets (Parenthetical)
	Process Flow-Through: Removing column 'Jun. 30, 2010'
	Process Flow-Through: Removing column 'Jun. 30, 2009'
Process Flow-Through: 1006 - Statement - Cash Flows Statements


msft-20120630.xml
msft-20120630.xsd
msft-20120630_cal.xml
msft-20120630_def.xml
msft-20120630_lab.xml
msft-20120630_pre.xml



true
true





XML
140
R117.htm
IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT


/* Do Not Remove This Comment */
v2.4.0.6








XML
141
R74.htm
IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT


/* Do Not Remove This Comment */
v2.4.0.6







XML
142
R38.htm
IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT


/* Do Not Remove This Comment */
v2.4.0.6






XML
143
R20.htm
IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT


/* Do Not Remove This Comment */
v2.4.0.6






XML
144
R101.htm
IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT


/* Do Not Remove This Comment */
v2.4.0.6









