http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/784681/000110465907014531/a06-19793_110k.htm
4707474927.0
CVC
2009-02-26
10-K
CVC_2009-02-26_10-K.txt

10-K 1 a06-19793_110k.htm 10-K UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549 FORM 10-K (Mark One) x ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF   THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 For the   fiscal year ended December31, 2006 OR o TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR   15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 [NO FEE REQUIRED] For the transition period from  to Commission File Number Registrant;   State of Incorporation; Address and Telephone Number IRS   Employer Identification No.
1-14764 Cablevision   Systems Corporation Delaware 1111 Stewart Avenue Bethpage, NY 11714 (516) 803-2300 11-3415180 1-9046 CSC   Holdings, Inc.
Delaware 1111 Stewart Avenue Bethpage, NY 11714 (516) 803-2300 11-2776686 Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b)   of the Act: Title of each class: Name of each Exchange on which Registered: Cablevision Systems Corporation Cablevision NY Group ClassA Common Stock New York Stock Exchange CSC Holdings, Inc .
None Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of   the Act: Cablevision Systems Corporation None CSC Holdings, Inc .
None Indicate   by check mark if the Registrants are well-known seasoned issuers, as defined   in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.
Cablevision Systems Corporation Yes o No x CSC Holdings, Inc.
Yes o No x Indicate   by check mark if the Registrants are not required to file reports pursuant to   Section13 or Section15(d) of the Act.
Cablevision Systems Corporation Yes o No x CSC Holdings, Inc.
Yes o No x Indicate   by check mark whether the Registrants (1) have filed all reports required to   be filed by Section13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934   during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the Registrants   were required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing   requirements for the past 90days.
Cablevision Systems Corporation Yes o No x CSC Holdings, Inc.
Yes o No x Indicate by a check mark if disclosure of   delinquent filers pursuant to Item405 of Regulation S-K is not   contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of the Registrants   knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference   in Part III of this Form10-K or any amendment to this Form10-K.
o Cablevision Systems Corporation CSC Holdings, Inc.
Indicate by check mark whether each Registrant is   a large accelerated filer, accelerated filer or non-accelerated filer (as   defined in Exchange Act Rule12b-2).
Large   accelerated Accelerated Non-accelerated filer filer filer Cablevision Systems Corporation Yes x No o Yes o No o Yes o No o CSC Holdings, Inc.
Yes o No o Yes o No o Yes x No o Indicate by check mark whether the Registrants   are shell companies (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act).
Cablevision Systems Corporation Yes o No x CSC Holdings, Inc.
Yes o No x Aggregate market value of the voting and   non-voting common equity held by non-affiliates of Cablevision Systems   Corporation computed by reference to the price at which the common equity was   last sold on the New York Stock Exchange as of June30, 2006:   $4,707,474,927 Number of shares of common stock outstanding as   of February 22, 2007: Cablevision NY Group ClassA Common Stock 229,121,577 Cablevision NY Group ClassB Common Stock 63,327, 303 CSC Holdings, Inc. Common Stock 11,595,635 Documents   incorporated by reference Cablevision Systems Corporation intends to   file with the Securities and Exchange Commission, not later than 120 days   after the close of its fiscal year, a definitive proxy statement or an   amendment to this report containing the information required to be disclosed   under PartII, Item5 and PartIII of Form10-K filed   under cover of Form10-K/A.
TABLE OF CONTENTS Page Part I 1.
Business 1 1A.
Risk   Factors 24 1B.
Unresolved Staff   Comments 33 2.
Properties 33 3.
Legal Proceedings 34 4.
Submission of   Matters to a Vote of Security Holders 34 Part II 5.
Market for the   Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases   of Equity Securities 34 6.
Selected Financial   Data.
38 7.
Managements   Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 43 7A.
Quantitative   and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.
92 8.
Financial   Statements and Supplementary Data 95 9.
Changes in and   Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 95 9A.
Controls and   Procedures.
95 9B.
Other Information 96 Part III 10.
Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrants.
* 11.
Executive Compensation.
* 12.
Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and   Management and Related Stockholders Matters.
* 13.
Certain Relationships and Related Transactions.
* 14.
Principal Accountant Fees and Services.
* Part IV 15.
Exhibits and Financial   Statement Schedules.
97 * Some or all of these items are omitted because Cablevision intends to file with the Securities and Exchange Commission, not later than 120 days after the close of its fiscal year, a definitive proxy statement or an amendment to this report containing the information required to be disclosed under Part II, Item 5 and PartIII of Form10-K filed under cover of Form10-K/A.
PART I Item 1.
Business This combined Annual Report on Form10-K is separately filed by Cablevision Systems Corporation (Cablevision) and CSC Holdings, Inc. (CSC Holdings and collectively with Cablevision, the Company or the Registrants).
Cablevision Systems Corporation Cablevision Systems Corporation is a Delaware corporation which was organized in 1997. Cablevision owns all of the outstanding common stock of CSC Holdings and its liabilities consist primarily of $1.5billion senior notes issued in April 2004. Cablevision has no operations independent of its CSC Holdings subsidiary.
CSC Holdings CSC Holdings is a Delaware corporation which was organized in 1985 and is one of the largest cable operators in the United States based on the number of basic video subscribers. We also operate cable programming networks, entertainment businesses and telecommunications companies. As of December31, 2006, we served approximately 3.1million basic video subscribers in and around the New York City metropolitan area, making us the fifth largest cable operator in the United States based on the number of basic video subscribers. We believe that our cable television systems comprise the largest metropolitan cluster of cable television systems under common ownership in the United States (measured by number of basic video subscribers). Through our wholly-owned subsidiary, Rainbow Media Holdings LLC (Rainbow Media Holdings), we own interests in and manage numerous national and regional programming networks, the Madison Square Garden sports and entertainment businesses and cable television advertising sales companies. Through Cablevision Lightpath, Inc. (Lightpath), our wholly-owned subsidiary, we provide telephone services and high-speed Internet access to the business market.
We classify our business interests into three segments: Telecommunications Services; Rainbow; and Madison Square Garden.
Our Telecommunications Services segment includes CSC Holdings cable television business, including its video, high-speed data, Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP) and residential telephone services operations and the operations of the commercial telephone and high-speed data services provided by Lightpath.
Our Rainbow segment consists principally of our interests in national programming services  AMC, IFC, WE tv (formerly WE: Womens Entertainment), fuse and VOOM HD Networks and regional programming businesses and investments held by Rainbow Media Holdings including Fox Sports Net Bay Area, Fox Sports Net New England and News 12 Networks, a regional news business in the New York City metropolitan area. Rainbow also includes a local advertising sales representation business.
Our Madison Square Garden segment owns and operates the Madison Square Garden Arena and the adjoining Theater at Madison Square Garden, the New York Knickerbockers professional basketball team, the New York Rangers professional hockey team, the New York Liberty professional womens basketball team, the Hartford Wolf Pack professional hockey team, the regional sports programming networks Madison Square Garden Network and Fox Sports Net New York (collectively, MSG Networks), and MSG Entertainment (which operates Radio City Music Hall and the Beacon Theater in New York City under long-term leases). Additionally, Madison Square Garden manages and operates the Hartford Civic Center and Rentschler Field in Connecticut. Madison Square Garden is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Rainbow Media Holdings.
1 In addition, we own or have interests in the following businesses and assets:  the motion picture theater business of Clearview Cinemas, which operates 52 movie theaters containing 258 screens,  PVI Virtual Media Services LLC, which markets a real time video insertion system that places computer generated electronic images into telecasts of sporting events and other programming, and  the common stock of the following entities (which we monetized through the execution of prepaid forward contracts, collateralized by an equivalent amount of the respective stock): o Comcast Corporation, o General Electric Company, o Charter Communications, Inc., o Leapfrog Enterprises, Inc., a designer, developer and marketer of technology-based educational products.
Telecommunications Services General Cable television is a service that delivers multiple channels of television programming to subscribers who pay a monthly fee for the services they receive. Television signals are received over-the-air, by fiber optic transport or via satellite delivery by antennas, microwave relay stations and satellite earth stations and are modulated, amplified and distributed over a network of coaxial and fiber optic cable to the subscribers television sets. Cable television systems typically are constructed and operated pursuant to non-exclusive franchises awarded by local and state governmental authorities for specified periods of time.
Our cable television systems offer varying packages of service marketed under the Optimum brand name, which may include, among other programming, local broadcast network affiliates and independent television stations, certain other news, information and entertainment channels such as CNN, CNBC, ESPN, and MTV, and certain premium services such as HBO, Showtime, The Movie Channel, Starz!/Encore and Cinemax. We also offer digital video service, branded iO, Interactive Optimum, which enables customers to receive video on demand and subscription video on demand services, as well as additional viewing channels.
Our cable television revenues are derived principally from monthly fees paid by subscribers. In addition to recurring subscriber revenues, we derive revenues from the sales of pay-per-view movies and events, video on demand and subscription video on demand program tiers, from the sale of advertising time on advertiser supported programming and from installation and equipment charges. Certain services and equipment provided by substantially all of our cable television systems are subject to regulation. See Regulation - Cable Television.
We also provide residential high-speed data services using our cable television broadband network. High-speed data services are provided to customers through a cable modem device. The high-speed data service, marketed as Optimum Online, served approximately 2.0million subscribers at December31, 2006 for an overall penetration rate of 44.7% of the homes passed by our cable television network. We believe that our high-speed data service penetration has been driven by superior quality and speed and, in part, by a large number of customers installing the necessary equipment without the need for a service call.
In addition, the Company offers Optimum Voice, VoIP technology services which is offered exclusively to our Optimum Online subscribers. As of December31, 2006, we provided Optimum Voice services to 2 approximately 1.2million customers for an overall penetration rate of 26.5% of the homes passed by our cable television network. As of December31, 2006, we also provided switched residential telephone services to approximately 5,200 subscribers in Long Island, New York and parts of southern Connecticut.
Through Optimum Lightpath, a business broadband service provider, we provide telecommunications services to the business market in the greater New York City metropolitan area. Lightpath provides converged data, Internet and voice solutions to mid-sized and large businesses, hospital systems, municipalities, and school systems.
Optimum Lightpath has built an advanced fiber optic network extending more than 2,700 route miles (131,000 fiber miles) throughout the New York Metropolitan area. Optimum Lightpath provides scalable advanced Metro Ethernet services that support a variety of business applications. Metro Ethernet enables organizations to replace older phone line technology with a single IP based solution that satisfies their telecommunications needs, including voice, video, data and Internet. Because Optimum Lightpath builds its wholly owned fiber optic network directly into customers office locations, it can deliver its Metro Ethernet services at high speeds (from 10 Mbps up to 10 Gbps), while offering cost savings over traditional services.
As of December31, 2006, Lightpath serviced over 2,000 buildings with approximately 127,000 access lines.
3 The following table sets forth certain statistical data regarding our video, high-speed data and VoIP operations as of the dates indicated.
AsofDecember31, 2006 2005 2004 Revenue   Generating Units: Basic Video Customers (1) 3,127,000 3,027,000 2,963,000 iO Digital Video Customers 2,447,000 1,963,000 1,483,000 Optimum Online High-Speed Data Customers 2,039,000 1,694,000 1,353,000 VoIP Customers 1,209,000 731,000 273,000 Residential Telephone Customers 5,000 8,000 9,000 Total Revenue Generating Units 8,827,000 7,423,000 6,081,000 Customer   Relationships (2) 3,300,000 3,175,000 3,096,000 Homes   Passed by Cable (3) 4,562,000 4,484,000 4,443,000 Penetration: Basic Video to Homes Passed 68.5 % 67.5 % 66.7 % iO Digital to Basic Penetration 78.2 % 64.8 % 50.1 % Optimum Online to Homes Passed 44.7 % 37.8 % 30.4 % VoIP to Homes Passed 26.5 % 16.3 % 6.1 % Average Monthly   Revenue per Basic Video Customer (RPS) (4) $ 115.30 $ 100.46 $ 88.33 (1) Basic video customers represent each customer account (set up and segregated by customer name and address), weighted equally and counted as one subscriber, regardless of size, revenue generated, or number of boxes, units, or outlets. In calculating the number of customers, the Company counts all customers other than inactive/disconnected customers. Free accounts are included in the customer counts along with all active accounts, but they are limited to a prescribed group such as current and retired Company employees, and free status is not granted to regular customers as a promotion. Such accounts are also not entirely free, as they typically generate revenue through pay-per-view or other services for which they must pay. The Company counts a bulk commercial customer, such as a hotel, as one customer, and does not count individual room units at that hotel. In counting bulk residential customers such as an apartment building, the Company counts each subscribing family unit within the building as one customer, but does not count the master account for the entire building as a customer.
(2) Number of customers who receive at least one of the Companys services, including business modem only customers.
(3) Homes passed represent the estimated number of single residence homes, apartment and condominium units and commercial establishments passed by the cable distribution network in areas serviceable without further extending the transmission lines.
(4) Average monthly revenue per basic video customer is calculated by dividing the GAAP revenues for the Telecommunications Services segment, less the revenue attributable to Lightpath, for the fourth quarter of each year presented by the average monthly number of basic video customers served by the Companys cable television systems for the same period. For purposes of this calculation, both revenue and average number of basic video customers exclude the Companys Lightpath operations because Lightpaths third-party revenues are unrelated to the Companys cable television system customers.
Subscriber Rates and Services; Marketing and Sales Basic Cable Our cable television systems offer a government mandated broadcast basic level of service which includes local over-the-air broadcast stations, such as network affiliates (e.g., ABC, NBC, CBS, FOX), and public, educational or governmental channels.
All of our cable television systems also offer an expanded basic package of services, generally marketed as Family Cable, which includes, among other programming, certain news, information, entertainment, and sports channels such as CNN, AMC, CNBC, Discovery, ESPN and MTV. For additional charges our cable television systems provide certain premium services such as HBO, Showtime, The Movie Channel, Starz!/Encore and Cinemax, which may be purchased either individually or in tiers.
4 iO, Interactive Optimum iO, Interactive Optimum, our digital video service, is available to Cablevisions entire service area. We ended 2006 with approximately 2.4 million iO subscribers.
The digital video programming services currently offered to subscribers include:  over 230 channels of entertainment,  over 50 additional movie channels including multiple channels (multiplexes) of HBO, Showtime, Cinemax, Starz!/Encore and The Movie Channel,  access to over 1,200 titles each month on demand, featuring hundreds of movies, and subscription video on demand programming including HBO On Demand, Showtime On Demand, Cinemax On Demand, and Disney Channel On Demand, Anime On Demand, Howard TV On Demand, Playboy TV on Demand, and here! TV On Demand,  over 150 hours of special interest programming on demand featuring MagRack, a collection of 17 video magazines, plus free on demand programming from Thirteen on Demand, Nick on Demand, WE on Demand, fuse, TV Guide Spot and sportskool,  45 channels of uninterrupted commercial-free digital music from Music Choice,  iO Sports Pak - 10 sports channels featuring college sports, golf, soccer, extreme sports and recreational activities for $4.95 per month,  optional sports packages from the National Basketball Association (NBA), National Hockey League (NHL), and college football and basketball,  iO en espanol- over 30 Spanish language channels including programming from Latin America, the Caribbean, Mexico, and featuring latino, video on demand content,  17 channels of international programming from around the world, with channels from Korea, Russia, China, Portugal, Italy, Poland, Japan and India/Southeast Asia,  21 channels available in high definition, including local channels such as WCBS, WABC, WNBC, WNYW (FOX), the CW, My9 and WNET (PBS), as well as local sports channels, Madison Square Garden Network, YES Network, SportsNet NY and Fox Sports Net New York. Offerings also include high definition channels from HBO, Cinemax, Showtime, The Movie Channel, Starz!/Encore, Universal, ESPN and INHD. In addition, high definition movies are available on demand for an additional fee,  a collection of enhanced television applications including News 12 Traffic and Weather (formerly Metro Traffic and Weather) interactive, iO dashboard, iO Showcase, Optimum Autos, and Optimum Homes,  iO DVR service, giving subscribers the ability to record, pause and rewind live television, currently priced at $9.95 per month, and  iO Games, a wide variety of interactive games offered in distinct packages including the Arcade Pak, Casino Pak, Variety Pak, and Logic Pak. Each package is currently priced at $4.95 per month.
Packaging of the iO, Interactive Optimum product includes the iO Gold package currently priced at $87.95 per month. iO Gold features over 230 channels, including more than 50 premium movie channels and 21 high definition (HDTV) channels. iO Silver, currently priced at $67.95 per month, includes everything in iO Gold except for NBA TV, Flix and premium movie channels from Showtime, Cinemax and The Movie Channel. The currently priced $9.95 per month iO package (which is included in iO Gold and iO Silver) can be added to any level of cable service and includes an additional 34 digital video channels, 45 digital music channels from Music Choice, and access to video on demand programming, including free on demand programming such as MagRack and PBS (Thirteen on Demand) as well as iOs enhanced television services such as iO Games and interactive news and weather sites. Discount pricing is available when iO is combined with other service offerings.
5 Since our network serving our existing cable television systems is substantially upgraded to provide advanced digital video services, our sales efforts are primarily directed toward increasing our penetration to homes passed for all of our existing services. We market our cable television services through in-person selling, as well as telemarketing, direct mail advertising, promotional campaigns and local media and newspaper advertising.
Optimum Online Optimum Online is our high-speed Internet access for the home. Optimum Online connects customers to the Internet using the same network that delivers our cable television service. It is significantly faster than digital subscriber line (DSL) and traditional dial-up services. Optimum Online is available to Cablevisions entire service area.
During 2006, we completed the upgrade of our plant to allow a 50% increase in download speeds to a maximum of 15Mbps downstream (2Mbps upstream) and we have made available two additional levels of service: Optimum Online Boost (30Mbps/2Mbps) and Optimum Online Ultra (50Mbps/50Mbps) to a portion of our service area.
Optimum Online is currently priced at $49.95 per month on an a la carte basis with Optimum Online Boost available for an additional charge of $14.95 per month. Discount pricing is available when Optimum Online is combined with other service offerings.
We ended 2006 with approximately 2.0million Optimum online subscribers.
Optimum Voice Optimum Voice is a VoIP service available exclusively to Optimum Online subscribers that offers unlimited local, regional and long-distance calling within the United States, Puerto Rico and Canada with popular calling features at one low, flat monthly rate.
With Optimum Voice, customers can call anywhere within the United States, Puerto Rico and Canada, any time of the day or night, and talk as long as they like at the current price of $34.95 a month. Discount pricing is available when Optimum Voice is combined with other service offerings.
Optimum Voice includes the following premium calling features, plus My Optimum Voice:  Enhanced Voicemail  Call Waiting  Caller ID  Caller ID Blocking  Call Return  Three-Way Calling  Call Forwarding  Anonymous call blocker  blocks all calls to a Voice customer where a calling party does not display their name or number  Anonymous calling  hides the Voice customers name and number on all calls they make  Find me  allows calls to a Voice customers phone number to ring up to three additional phone lines, such as a cell phone or work number, simultaneously  Call waiting with caller ID  Busy Redial 6  VIP Ringing  a Voice customer can designate up to a certain number of telephone numbers to ring with a second, distinct ringtone My Optimum Voice allows customers to easily manage calling features and receive voicemails via the Internet. Customers can view all their call details at their convenience.
We launched Optimum Voice World Call in the second quarter of 2006, which provides flat-rate international calling to anywhere in the world, for $19.95 per month (250 minutes per month).
Optimum Voice is available to Cablevisions entire service area. We ended 2006 with approximately 1.2million Optimum Voice customers.
Bundled Offers We offer several promotional packages with discounted pricing to customers who subscribe to one or more of our products as compared to the a la carte prices for each individual product. Our Optimum Triple Play family package currently offers iO Interactive Optimum, Optimum Online and Optimum Voice for $29.95 per month for each for the first twelve months when purchased together. Our Optimum Double Play package currently offers Optimum Online and Optimum Voice for $29.95 per month for each for the first twelve months when purchased together. We also offer other pricing discounts for certain products that are added to existing service.
System Capacity Our cable plant network uses state of the art technology including fiber optic cable. The network is a minimum of 750MHz two-way interactive system offering a minimum of 67 analog, various digital channels, high-speed data and voice services.
Programming Adequate programming is available to the cable television systems from a variety of sources, including from Rainbow Media Holdings. Program suppliers compensation is typically a fixed, per subscriber monthly fee (subject to contractual escalations) based, in most cases, either on the total number of basic video subscribers of the cable television systems, or on the number of subscribers subscribing to the particular service. The programming contracts are generally for a fixed period of time and are subject to negotiated renewal. Cable programming costs have increased in recent years and are expected to continue to increase due to additional programming being provided to most subscribers, increased costs to produce or purchase cable programming and other factors.
Franchises The Companys cable television systems are operated in New York, New Jersey and Connecticut under non-exclusive franchise agreements with state or municipal franchising authorities. Franchise agreements usually require payment of franchise fees and contain regulatory provisions addressing, among other things, upgrades, service quality, cable service to schools and other public institutions, insurance and indemnity bonds. The terms and conditions of cable franchises vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. Franchise authorities generally charge a franchise fee of up to 5% of certain of our revenues that are derived from the operation of the system within such locality. The Company generally passes the franchise fee on to its subscribers, listing it as a separate item on the bill.
Franchise agreements are usually for a term of five to fifteen years from the date of grant; most are ten years. Franchises usually are terminable only if the cable operator fails to comply with material provisions, and then only after complying with substantive and procedural protections afforded by federal 7 and state law. As of December31, 2006, one of our ten largest franchises is expired and we are currently operating in this area under temporary authority. Approximately 58,000 of the Companys basic video customers are in this franchise area. The Company has never lost a franchise for an area in which it operates. Historically, expired franchises have routinely been renewed upon expiration. When a franchise agreement reaches expiration, a franchising authority may seek to impose new requirements, including requirements to upgrade facilities, to increase channel capacity and to provide additional support for local public, education and government access programming. Negotiations can be protracted. Franchise agreements sometimes expire before a renewal is negotiated and finalized. State laws provide that pre-existing franchise terms continue in force during the renewal negotiations until one or both parties seek to pursue formal franchise remedies under federal law. Federal law provides significant substantive and procedural protections for cable operators seeking renewal of their franchises. See Regulation - Cable Television. Despite the Companys efforts and the protections of federal law, it is possible that one or more of the Companys franchises may be subject to termination or non-renewal or we may be required to make significant additional investments in the cable systems in response to requirements imposed in the course of the franchise renewal process.
Rainbow General We conduct our programming activities through Rainbow Media Holdings, a wholly-owned subsidiary of CSC Holdings. Rainbow Media Holdings businesses include ownership interests in national and regional programming networks.
Rainbow Media Holdings national entertainment programming networks include AMC, WE tv, IFC, fuse, VOOM HD Networks, Mag Rack and sportskool.
Rainbow Media Holdings holds a 50% interest in a regional sports network that provides regional sports programming to the New England area and also has a 60% interest in Fox Sports Net Bay Area, a regional sports network that provides regional sports programming to the San Francisco/Oakland Bay area.
Rainbow Media Holdings owns News12 which operates regional news networks servicing the New York City metropolitan area and also owns and operates Rainbow Advertising Sales Corporation, a cable television advertising company.
8 The following table sets forth estimated subscriber information as of December31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 for Rainbow Media Holdings programming businesses. These businesses are wholly-owned subsidiaries of Rainbow Media Holdings, except for as noted below.
ViewingSubscribers(a) 2006 2005 2004 (inthousands) Programming and Related   Businesses National   Entertainment Programming Networks : AMC 81,100 77,200 76,100 WE tv 52,700 50,900 49,900 IFC 40,100 37,300 34,600 fuse 42,000 35,500 33,100 VOOM HD Networks   (b) 300 25  Mag Rack 4,700 4,800 2,700 sportskool 20,100 12,300 1,200 Regional Sports   Networks: Fox Sports Net   Bay Area (c) 3,700 3,600 3,600 Fox Sports Net   New England (d) 3,900 3,800 3,800 Madison Square   Garden Network/Fox Sports Net New York (e) 15,300 14,700 14,000 News Services: Regional News12 Services 3,800 3,700 3,300 News12 Traffic   and Weather 2,800 2,600  (a) Represents the number of subscribers to distributors systems that receive the referenced programming network.
(b) Rainbow Media Holdings holds an 80% interest in the VOOM HD Networks and EchoStar Communication Corporation holds the remaining 20%.
(c) Rainbow Media Holdings holds a 60% interest in Fox Sports Net Bay Area and News Corporation holds the remaining 40%.
(d) Rainbow Media Holdings holds a 50% interest in Fox Sports Net New England and Comcast holds the remaining 50%.
(e) Madison Square Garden Network and Fox Sports Net New York are part of the Companys Madison Square Garden segment.
National Entertainment Programming Networks AMC With a comprehensive library of popular films, AMC offers movie-based entertainment for movie lovers.
AMC is available on cable television and other distribution platforms such as direct broadcast satellite (DBS) in the United States, and in the fourth quarter of 2006, the AMC service was launched by a cable television operator in Canada. It is principally carried on basic or expanded basic tiers for which subscribers do not have to pay a premium to receive the network. Affiliate revenues, which in 2006 accounted for approximately 60% of AMCs net revenues, are based on fees paid by the distributors for the right to carry the programming.
AMCs film library consists of films that are licensed from major studios such as Twentieth Century Fox, Warner Bros., Sony (MGM), NBC Universal, Paramount, and Buena Vista under long-term contracts, 9 with sufficient films under contract as of December31, 2006 to meet its minimum film programming needs through midyear 2009. AMC generally structures its contracts for the exclusive cable television right to carry the films during identified windows. AMCs programming also includes original series such as Sunday Morning Shootout, Movies that Shook the World and Movies 101 .
WE tv WE tv is a 24-hour entertainment service oriented to women. The programming features films and original series and specials of particular interest to women.
WE tv has licensed exclusive films and off-network series from major studios such as Twentieth Century Fox, NBC Universal and Warner Bros., as well as independent studios like Miramax and New Line to supplement its slate of original programming. The library has sufficient films licensed under contract as of December31, 2006 to meet WE tvs minimum film programming needs through approximately midyear 2010. WE tvs acquired series include Hope and Faith , Dharma & Greg and Take This House & Sell It!. Bridezillas, Secret Lives of Women, Platinum Weddings and John Edward Cross Country are WE tvs most successful original series.
IFC IFC was the first network dedicated to independent films and related programming. IFC presents feature-length films (domestically and internationally produced), documentaries, shorts, animation, new works, cult classics and originally produced programs which chronicle independent film trends.
IFCs film library includes titles from Rainbow Media Holdings film production and distribution businesses, as well as from leading independent film studios like Miramax, MGM/UA, Lions Gate and New Line, with sufficient films under contract as of December31, 2006 to meet its minimum film programming requirements needs through 2008. IFC also features exclusive live coverage of notable international film events like the Cannes Film Festival and the Independent Spirit Awards as well as original series such as Greg the Bunny , The Henry Rollins Show, The Minor Accomplishments of Jackie Woodman, Gunslinger Girl and Basilisk, and original documentaries such as This Film Is Not Yet Rated and Yo Soy Boricua .
fuse fuse is the nations only viewer-influenced multi-platform, music television network, featuring music videos, artist interviews, live concerts, series and specials. fuse is a destination for established and emerging artists.
VOOM HD Networks VOOM HD Networks is currently a suite of 15 channels, produced exclusively in high-definition and marketed for distribution to direct broadcast satellite and cable operators. VOOM HD Networks range from extreme sports and fashion to art and movies. VOOM HD Networks offer: concerts on Rave HD, art and museum tours on Gallery HD, exploration and nature on Equator HD, extreme sports on Rush HD and 24/7 news and weather on HDNews. Currently, the VOOM HD Networks are available only on EchoStar Communications Corporations (EchoStar) DISH Network.
In April 2005, subsidiaries of the Company entered into agreements with EchoStar relating to the launch and operation of the business of Rainbow HD Holdings LLC, the Companys VOOM HD Networks, subject to the closing of the sale of our satellite (Rainbow 1) to EchoStar, which occurred in November 2005. Under those arrangements, EchoStar initially distributed a portion of the VOOM HD Networks programming service and, beginning in 2006 began carrying all 15 of the channels included in the programming service. In connection with the arrangements, EchoStar was issued a 20% interest in 10 Rainbow HD Holdings, the Companys subsidiary owning the VOOM HD Networks, and that 20% interest will not be diluted until $500million in cash has been invested in Rainbow HD Holdings equity by the Company.
Under the terms of the affiliation arrangements with EchoStar covering the VOOM HD Networks for a 15year term, if Rainbow HD Holdings fails to spend $100million per year, up to a maximum of $500million in the aggregate, on its service offerings, EchoStar may terminate the affiliation agreement. The Company has the right to terminate the affiliation agreement if the VOOM HD Networks are discontinued in the future.
Regional Sports Networks Rainbow Media Holdings holds a 60% indirect interest in Fox Sports Net Bay Area and a 50% indirect interest in Fox Sports Net New England. Rainbow Media Holdings manages each of these regional sports networks, which are distributed in their respective region in the United States through cable television as well as other distribution platforms such as direct broadcast satellite.
In April 2005, the Company and News Corporation restructured their ownership of Regional Programming Partners. Prior to the April 2005 transaction, Regional Programming Partners was owned 60% by the Company and 40% by News Corporation. As a result of the restructuring, the Company now owns 100% of Madison Square Garden, 100% of Fox Sports Net Chicago (which was shut down in June 2006) and 50% of Fox Sports Net New England. In connection with the restructuring, these businesses extended the terms of their long-term affiliation agreements with National Sports Partners and their advertising representation agreements with National Advertising Partners.
National Sports Partners and National Advertising Partners were owned 50% by the Company and 50% by News Corporation prior to the restructuring. As a result of the restructuring, the Company no longer owns an interest in National Sports Partners, National Advertising Partners, Fox Sports Net Ohio or Fox Sports Net Florida.
The Company and News Corporation continue to own 60% and 40%, respectively, of Fox Sports Net Bay Area through a separate partnership. The Company continues to manage that network. In connection with the restructuring, Fox Sports Net Bay Area extended the terms of its long-term affiliation agreement with National Sports Partners and its advertising representation agreement with National Advertising Partners.
Other Services Video-On-Demand Services Rainbow Media Holdings on-demand services include MagRack and sportskool. MagRack provides a variety of on-demand special interest television programming on a variety of topics including cars, motorcycles, personal relationships, childrens entertainment and music instruction. sportskool features expert sports instruction, coaching and guidance for a wide range of sports and fitness activities. These services are currently offered to Cablevisions subscribers and are also carried by other distributors.
Rainbow Network Communications Rainbow Network Communications, servicing primarily Rainbow Media Holdings programming offerings, is a full service network programming origination and distribution company. Its services include origination, transmission, video engineering, uplinking, encryption, affiliate engineering, technology consulting, transponder negotiation, content ordering, quality control and editing. Rainbow Network Communications has a state of the art technology center that consolidates all master 11 control/playback and uplink facilities in one location. This center is fully digital which enables Rainbow Network Communications to process audio and video signals in both standard and high definition.
Film Production and Distribution Businesses Rainbow leveraged IFCs brand name in 1997 to create IFC Productions, a feature film production company that provides financing for select independent film projects, and in 2000 to create IFC Films, a theatrical distribution company. Historically, IFC Productions has provided financing for the production of such films as Boys Dont Cr y and Girlfight . In 2005, IFC Productions Me and You and Everyone We Know won major awards at the Sundance and Cannes Film Festivals and became one of the top 5 grossing films in IFC Productions history. In 2004, Fahrenheit 9/11 , distributed by IFC Films and Lions Gate, received critical acclaim.
Madison Square Garden Madison Square Garden is a sports and entertainment company that owns and operates the Madison Square Garden Arena and the adjoining Theater at Madison Square Garden, the New York Knickerbockers professional basketball team, the New York Rangers professional hockey team, the New York Liberty professional womens basketball team, the Hartford Wolf Pack professional hockey team, the Madison Square Garden Network, Fox Sports Net New York and MSG Entertainment (which operates Radio City Music Hall and the Beacon Theater in New York City under long-term leases). Additionally, Madison Square Garden manages and operates the Hartford Civic Center and Rentschler Field in Connecticut. Madison Square Garden is an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company.
Other Businesses and Assets Clearview Cinemas operates 52 motion picture theaters containing 258 screens in the New York metropolitan area. Substantially all of the theaters were acquired in transactions completed in 1998 and 1999. A newly constructed five screen theater was opened in November 2006 in South Orange, New Jersey.
An indirect subsidiary of Rainbow Media Holdings owns a 90% interest in an entity, DTV Norwich LLC that holds FCC licenses in 45 metropolitan areas in the United States, including New York, Miami, Los Angeles, and Cleveland, to provide multichannel video distribution and data service (MVDDS), which could be used to distribute video, data or other applications to subscribers via terrestrial transmission facilities and rooftop antennas. The Company is not currently utilizing such spectrum.
CSC Holdings holds a 49.9% interest, and certain preferential distribution rights, in Northcoast Communications. Northcoast Communications is controlled by John Dolan, a nephew of Charles F. Dolan and a cousin of James L. Dolan, the Companys Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, respectively. The Companys investment in Northcoast Communications was zero at December31, 2006 and 2005.
PVI Virtual Media Services LLC is a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, which markets a real time video insertion system that through patented technology places computer generated electronic images into telecasts of sporting events and other programming.
We also own 3,724,460 shares of Charter Communications common stock and 14,318,412 shares of Comcast common stock acquired in connection with the sale of certain cable television systems. We also own 12,742,033 shares of General Electric common stock acquired in connection with the sale of our interest in the Bravo programming service and 800,000 shares of Leapfrog Enterprises, Inc. common stock. All of these shares have been monetized pursuant to collateralized prepaid forward contracts.
12 Competition Cable Television Our cable television systems operate in an intensely competitive environment, competing with a variety of other television programming delivery systems, including satellite delivered signals, delivery systems of incumbent telephone companies and broadcast television signals available to homes within our market by over-the-air reception.
DBS.
A primary competitor to our cable television systems is direct broadcast satellite (DBS). Two major DBS services, EchoStar and DirecTV, are available to the vast majority of our customers. According to the Federal Communications Commissions most recent (2006) report on video competition, DBS providers serve over 27% of households that subscribe to multichannel video programming services. These services each offer over 300 channels of programming, including programming that is substantially similar to the programming that we offer. Federal laws permit DBS systems to retransmit local broadcast television signals to their customers. This has also enhanced the competitive position of DBS. Our ability to compete with these DBS services is also affected by the quality and quantity of programming available to us and to them. Federal law also generally provides DBS operators with access to all satellite-delivered cable programming services. One of these services, DirecTV, also has exclusive arrangements with the NFL that gives it access to programming that we cannot offer and similar deals for other sporting events have been announced or reported.
Incumbent Telephone Companies.
We face intense competition from incumbent telephone companies such as Verizon and AT&T Inc., which have recently begun to offer video programming in addition to their voice and high-speed Internet access services, evidencing their commitment to compete across all of the Companys telecommunications products. Their competitive position has been improved by recent operational, regulatory and legislative advances that they have made. Verizon and AT&T are constructing fiber-based systems designed to provide video programming as well as voice and data services to residential customers in our service area. The attractive demographics of the Companys service territory make this region a desirable location for investment in video distribution technologies by these companies. Verizon has constructed fiber to the home network plant that passes a significant number of households in our service area, though currently less than a quarter of the households according to our estimates. Verizon has obtained authority to provide video service (it already has or needs no authority to provide phone and data services) for a majority of these homes passed, on a statewide basis in New Jersey and through numerous local franchises in New York. Verizon has so far not indicated any plans to offer video service in Connecticut. AT&T has announced the commencement of video programming service in several markets in Connecticut, where it is currently permitted to offer such service without any state authorization. See Regulation and Risk Factors - Pending FCC, Congressional and judicial proceedings may affect our businesses for a discussion of regulatory and legislative issues. Verizon and AT&T also market DBS services in our service area. Each of these companies has greater financial resources than we do.
OVS.
In addition, competitive service providers that utilize the public rights-of-way can operate an open video system (OVS) subject only to selected portions of the federal regulations applicable to our cable systems, but still subject to certain local municipal franchising powers. RCN Corporation is authorized to operate OVS systems that may compete with us in New York City.
Other Competitors.
Other sources of actual or potential video competition to cable television systems include broadcast television stations, private home dish earth stations, multichannel multipoint distribution services (MMDS), which deliver television programming over microwave super-high frequency channels received by subscribers with a special antenna, satellite master antenna television (SMATV) systems, which like MMDS generally serve large multiple dwelling units under an agreement with the landlord, and new services such as wireless local multipoint distribution service (LMDS), and MVDDS. The statutory definition of a cable television system excludes facilities that do not use public rights-of-way. This exempts wireless services from local franchise and other requirements 13 applicable only to cable television system operators. No MVDDS systems have yet been commercially deployed in the United States. Cable television systems also compete with entities that make videotaped movies and programs available for home rental or sale.
Another potential source of competition is the delivery of video programming over the Internet directly to subscribers. There can be no assurance that the provision of video over the Internet or other existing, proposed, or as yet undeveloped technologies will not become dominant in the future and render our cable television systems less profitable or even obsolete.
High-Speed Data Our high-speed data offering to consumers, Optimum Online, faces intense competition from other providers of high-speed Internet access including services offered by local telephone companies such as Verizon and AT&T. In addition, DBS providers have tested the use of certain spectrum to offer satellite-based high-speed data services and are offering broadband data services via partnerships and marketing arrangements with other providers such as Verizon, AT&T, and Earthlink. The FCC has allocated spectrum for use by licensed and unlicensed providers of wireless broadband service including LMDS, MVDDS, and WiMax, which, if offered within Cablevisions service area, could compete with our high-speed data offering.
VoIP Our VoIP service, Optimum Voice, faces intense competition from other providers of voice services, including local exchange carriers such as Verizon and AT&T and other competitive providers of voice services, as well as VoIP providers like Vonage that do not own networks but can provide service to any person with a broadband connection from a cable company or other network. Traditional wireline local exchange carriers and wireless providers have established customer relationships and existing network interconnection arrangements, which may give them an advantage in providing VoIP services.
Lightpath Lightpath operates in the most competitive business telecommunications market in the country and competes against the very largest telecommunications companies - incumbent local exchange carriers (ILECs), other competitive local exchange companies and long distance companies. More specifically, Lightpath faces substantial competition from Verizon and AT&T, which are the dominant providers of local telephone and broadband services in their respective service areas, smaller independent ILECs such as Frontier/Citizens and Warwick Valley Telephone Company, and VoIP providers such as Vonage. ILECs have significant advantages over Lightpath, including greater capital resources, an existing fully operational local network, and long-standing relationships with customers.
While Lightpath and the ILECs are competitors, Lightpath must enter into interconnection agreements with each ILEC so that Lightpaths customers can make and receive calls to and from customers served by the ILECs and other telecommunications providers. Federal and state law and regulations require ILECs to enter into such agreements and provide such facilities and services, at prices subject to regulation. The specific price, terms and conditions of each agreement, however, depend on the outcome of negotiations between Lightpath and an ILEC. Agreements are also subject to approval by the state regulatory commissions. Lightpath has entered into interconnection agreements with Verizon for New York, New Jersey and portions of Connecticut and with AT&T for portions of Connecticut, which have been approved by the respective state commissions. Lightpath also entered into interconnection agreements with regional carriers in New York and New Jersey. These agreements, like all interconnection 14 agreements, are for limited terms and are required to be renegotiated, arbitrated and approved subject to the laws in effect at that time.
Lightpath also faces competition from one or more competitive access providers and other new entrants in the local telecommunications and data marketplace, and competitive local exchange carriers (CLECs). In addition to the ILECs and CLECs, other potential competitors capable of offering voice and broadband services include electric utilities, long distance carriers, microwave carriers, wireless telephone system operators (such as cellular, PCS, and specialized mobile radio), and private networks built by large end users. A continuing trend toward business combinations and alliances in the telecommunications industry may create stronger competition for Lightpath.
Programming and Entertainment Rainbow Media Holdings programming networks operate in highly competitive markets. First, our programming networks compete with other programming networks to obtain distribution on cable television systems and other multichannel video programming distribution systems, such as DBS, and ultimately for viewing by each systems subscribers. Second, our programming networks compete with other video programming distributors, including broadcasters and other programming entities, to secure desired entertainment and sports programming. In each of these markets, some of our competitors are large publicly held companies that have greater financial resources than we do. In addition, Rainbow Media Holdings competes with these entities for advertising revenue.
It is difficult to predict the future effect of technology on many of the factors affecting Rainbow Media Holdings competitive position. For example, data compression technology has made it possible for most video programming distributors to increase their channel capacity, which may reduce the competition among programming networks and broadcasters for channel space. On the other hand, the addition of channel space could also increase competition for desired entertainment and sports programming and ultimately, for viewing by subscribers. As more channel space becomes available, the position of our programming networks in the most favorable tiers of these distributors would be an important goal. Additionally, video content delivered directly to viewers over the Internet could compete with our programming networks for viewership.
Distribution of Programming Networks The business of distributing programming networks to cable television systems and other multichannel video programming distributors is highly competitive. Our programming networks face competition from other programming networks for the right to be carried by a particular cable system or other multichannel video programming distribution system, and for the right to be carried on the service tier that will attract the most subscribers. Once our programming network is selected by a cable or other multichannel video programming distribution system for carriage, that network competes for viewers not only with the other channels available on the system, but also with off-air broadcast television, pay-per-view channels and video-on-demand channels, as well as online services, mobile services, radio, print media, motion picture theaters, DVDs, video cassettes and other sources of information, sporting events and entertainment.
Important to our success in each area of competition Rainbow Media Holdings faces are the prices we charge for our programming networks; the quantity, quality and variety of the programming offered on our networks; and the effectiveness of our networks marketing efforts. The competition for viewers in the context of nonpremium programming networks directly correlates with the competition for advertising revenues with each of our competitors.
Our ability to successfully compete with other programming networks for distribution may be hampered because the cable television systems, DBS services or other systems through which distribution is sought may be affiliated with other programming networks. In addition, because such affiliated cable television systems or DBS services may have a substantial number of subscribers, the ability of such programming 15 networks to obtain distribution on affiliated cable television or DBS services may lead to increased subscriber and advertising revenue for such networks because of their increased penetration compared to our programming networks. Even if such affiliated cable television or DBS operators carry our programming networks, there is no assurance that such cable television or DBS operators would not place their affiliated programming network on a more desirable tier, thereby giving the affiliated programming network a competitive advantage over our own.
New or existing programming networks with affiliations to desired broadcasting networks like NBC, ABC, CBS or FOX may also have a competitive advantage over our networks in obtaining distribution through the bundling of agreements to carry those programming networks with the agreements giving the cable system or other distributor the right to carry a broadcast station affiliated with the broadcasting network.
An important part of our strategy involves exploiting identified niches of the viewing audience that are generally well-defined and limited in size. Rainbow Media Holdings has faced and will continue to face increasing competition as other programming networks and online or other services are launched that seek to serve the same or similar niches.
Sources of Programming We also compete with other programming networks to secure desired programming. Although some of this programming is generated internally through our efforts in original programming, most of our programming is obtained through agreements with other parties that have produced or own the rights to such programming. Competition for this programming will increase as the number of programming networks increases. Other programming networks that are affiliated with programming sources such as movie or television studios, film libraries or sports teams may have a competitive advantage over us in this area.
Competition for Entertainment Programming Sources.
With respect to the acquisition of entertainment programming, such as syndicated programs and movies, which are not produced by or specifically for programming networks, our competitors include national commercial broadcast television networks, local commercial broadcast television stations, the Public Broadcasting Service and local public television stations, pay-per-view programs, and other cable programming networks. Some of these competitors have exclusive contracts with motion picture studios or independent motion picture distributors or own film libraries. In the future, Internet-based video content distributors may also emerge as competitors for the acquisition of content or the rights to distribute content.
Competition for Sports Programming Sources.
Because the loyalty of the sports viewing audience to a sports programming network is primarily driven by loyalty to a particular team or teams, access to adequate sources of sports programming is particularly critical to our sports networks. Our sports networks compete for local and regional rights for teams or events principally with national or regional cable networks that specialize in or carry sports programming, some of which also own or control, or are owned or controlled by, sports teams or leagues; television superstations which distribute sports and other programming by satellite; local and national commercial broadcast television networks; and independent syndicators that acquire and resell such rights nationally, regionally and locally. Some of our competitors may also have ownership interests in, or are owned or controlled by, sports teams, leagues or sports promoters. This gives them an advantage in obtaining broadcast rights for such teams or sports. Owners of distribution outlets such as DBS and cable television systems may also contract directly with the sports teams in their local service areas for the right to distribute games on their systems.
To remain competitive in acquiring rights to sports programming, our sports networks attempt to secure long-term rights agreements with teams, leagues, athletic conferences and other sports program suppliers. Our sports networks, however, are not always successful in doing so, and we cannot be assured that our strategy will enable our sports networks to offer sports programming of the type and in the quantity or 16 quality necessary for such networks to remain competitive. In addition, the increasing amount of sports programming available on a national basis, including pursuant to national rights arrangements (e.g., NBA on ABC, ESPN and TNT and NHL on NBC and vice versa), as part of league-controlled sports networks (e.g., NBA TV and NFL Network), and out-of-market packages (e.g., NBAs League Pass), may have an adverse impact on our competitive position as our sports networks compete for distribution and for viewers.
In the New York market, the two local professional baseball teams have each organized their own cable television networks featuring the games of their teams. This adversely affects the competitive position of our regional sports programming networks in New York by denying or limiting our access to those games for our own networks and subjecting our networks to competition from these team-owned services.
Competition for Advertising Revenue.
The financial success of our programming businesses also depends in part upon unpredictable and volatile factors beyond our control, such as viewer preferences, the strength of the advertising market, the quality and appeal of the competing programming and the availability of other entertainment activities. A shift in viewer preferences could cause our programming to decline in popularity, which could cause a decline in advertising revenues and could jeopardize renewal of our contracts with distributors. A decline in available advertising expenditures by advertisers could also cause a decline in advertising revenues regardless of a change in viewer preferences, especially from increased competition by other programmers providing similar programming. In addition, our competitors may have more flexible programming arrangements, as well as greater volumes of production, distribution and capital resources, and may be able to react more quickly to shifts in tastes and interests.
Madison Square Garden - Sports and Entertainment Businesses In addition to the competition faced by Madison Square Gardens programming networks (as discussed above), Madison Square Garden sports teams financial success is dependent on their ability to generate advertising sales, paid attendance, luxury box rentals, and food, beverage and merchandise sales. To a large extent, the ability of the teams to build excitement among fans, and therefore produce higher revenue streams, depends on the teams winning performance, which generates regular season and playoff attendance and luxury box rentals, and which also supports increases in prices charged for tickets, luxury box rentals, and advertising placement. Each teams success is dependent on its ability to acquire highly competitive personnel. The governing bodies of the NBA and the NHL have the power and authority to take certain actions that they deem to be in the best interest of their respective leagues, which may not necessarily be consistent with maximizing the professional sports teams results of operations. The venues owned and/or operated by Madison Square Garden compete with other entertainment venues in the New York metropolitan area. Competition is affected primarily by the quality of the sports and entertainment offered to consumers and, to a lesser extent, by factors such as price, arena quality and location.
17 Clearview Cinemas Clearview Cinemas as a smaller, regional film exhibitor, competes with a number of large theater chains and independent theaters with respect to acquiring licenses to films and attracting patrons. The principal competitive factors in obtaining films from distributors include licensing terms, seating capacity, location, prestige of the theater chain and of the particular theater, quality of projection and sound equipment and the exhibitors ability and willingness to promote the distributors films. Most of our competitors are in a stronger competitive position than Clearview Cinemas based upon these factors. We believe that the principal competitive factors in attracting film audiences are the availability of marketable films, the location of theaters, theater comfort and environment, projection and sound quality, level of service and ticket price. The theater exhibition industry also faces competition from other motion picture exhibition delivery systems, such as network, syndicated, pay television, DVD and other home video systems, including the availability of films over the internet.
Regulation Cable Television Our cable television systems are subject to extensive federal, state and local regulations. Our systems are regulated under congressionally imposed uniform national guidelines, first set in the Cable Communications Policy Act of 1984 and amended by the Cable Television Consumer Protection and Competition Act of 1992 and the Telecommunications Act of 1996.
The following paragraphs describe the existing legal and regulatory requirements that are most significant to our business today.
Franchising . Regulatory responsibility for local aspects of the cable business such as franchisee selection, system construction, safety, and customer service remains with state and local officials. New York, New Jersey and Connecticut laws provide for comprehensive cable regulation, including approval of transfers of our cable franchises and consumer protection legislation. State and local franchising jurisdiction, however, must be exercised consistently with federal law. Verizon is seeking state legislation in New York that would eliminate the need for, or accelerate, additional local franchises. The Federal Cable Act authorizes states or localities to franchise our cable television systems on a non-exclusive basis but sets limits on their franchising powers. It sets a ceiling on cities and other communities imposing franchise fees of not more than 5% of our gross revenues from our provision of cable television service. It prohibits localities from requiring us to carry specific programming services, and protects us in seeking franchise renewals by limiting the factors a locality may consider and requiring a due process hearing before denial of renewal. Our franchising authorities cannot grant an exclusive cable franchise to us and cannot unreasonably refuse to award an additional franchise to compete with us. The FCC has announced, but not released, a decision that would require municipalities to act more expeditiously on local franchises for competitive providers like Verizon and is intended to limit areas of negotiation that might otherwise slow the franchising process. See Risk Factors - Pending FCC, Congressional and judicial proceedings may affect our businesses.
Rate Regulation.
In some of our cable television systems, the rates for our basic service package are subject to regulation by local franchising authorities in accordance with FCC rules. Local municipalities or state cable television regulators may also regulate the rates we charge for the installation and lease of the equipment used by subscribers to receive the basic service package, including equipment that may also be used to receive other packages of programming, and the installation and monthly use of connections for additional television sets. However, we are permitted to compute our regulated equipment rates by aggregating our costs of broad categories of equipment at the franchise, system, regional or company level.
Rate regulation is by federal law eliminated if one of our cable systems is subject to effective competition from another multichannel video programming distributor. We have been successful in 18 obtaining from the FCC such an effective competition finding in a number of communities in our market and are currently seeking such a finding in other communities.
Must-Carry/Retransmission Consent.
We are required by federal law to carry local broadcast stations (must-carry), or, at the option of a local broadcaster, to obtain the broadcasters prior consent for retransmission of its signal. A substantial number of local broadcast stations currently carried by our cable television systems have elected to negotiate for retransmission consent. Our cable television systems have reached retransmission consent agreements with most broadcast stations they currently carry, but the potential remains for broadcast station carriage to be discontinued if such an agreement is not renewed following its expiration.
Congress has established a hard date of February17, 2009, as the deadline by which broadcasters must relinquish their analog spectrum. No later than February18, 2009, they must transmit solely in digital format. The FCC has ruled that when a broadcaster completes its transition from analog to digital transmission, only its primary digital video stream will be entitled to must-carry. The FCC has twice found that dual must carry rules (requiring cable systems to carry both the analog and digital broadcast signals) would be unconstitutional. The FCC has also ruled that broadcasters may not demand mandatory carriage for other than the primary digital video programming stream. The orders rejecting dual must carry and mandatory multicasting are currently subject to petitions for reconsideration pending before the FCC.
Ownership Limitations.
Congress has required the FCC to set limits on the number of channels that a cable operator can program with programming services we control, and a national limit on the number of subscribers we can serve. In 2001, a federal appellate court held unconstitutional the FCCs rules establishing a 40% limit on the number of channels of one of our cable television systems that can be occupied by programming services in which we have an attributable interest and a national limit of 30% on the number of multichannel video households that we can serve. The FCC is reviewing its ownership rules in light of that decision.
Set Top Boxes.
The FCC requires cable operators to separate security from non-security functions in digital set-top boxes in order to permit the manufacture and sale of these devices by third parties. By July 2007, cable operators themselves must cease providing new digital set-top boxes that integrate security functions with the other capabilities provided by these boxes. The FCC also requires cable operators to allow consumers to connect televisions and other consumer electronics equipment with a slot for a cable security card directly to digital cable systems to enable receipt of one-way digital programming without need for a set-top box. The FCC has granted our request for a limited waiver of the integration ban for our set-top boxes, which rely on a different type of security card for separated security, and has temporarily grandfathered the use of our separate security solution until July1, 2009.
Network Blackout/Nonduplication.
FCC rules require that we black out certain network and sports programming on imported distant broadcast television signals upon request. The FCC also requires that we delete syndicated programming carried on distant signals upon the request of any local television/broadcast station holding the exclusive right to broadcast the same program within our local television market.
PEG and Leased Access.
Localities may require free access to public, educational or governmental channels on our systems. We must make a limited number of commercial leased access channels available to third parties (including parties with potentially competitive video services) at regulated rates.
Tiering/A La Carte.
Federal law requires us to establish a basic service package consisting, at a minimum, of all local broadcast signals that we carry, as well as, if the locality requests, all public, educational and governmental access programming carried by our systems. All subscribers are required to purchase this tier as a condition of gaining access to any other programming that a cable operator provides. We are also required to carry leased access programming on the most widely purchased tier.
19 Federal law does not otherwise dictate the number or nature of programming services carried by a cable operator on each service tier.
Pole Attachments.
The FCC has authority to regulate utility company rates for cable rental of pole and conduit space unless states establish preemptive regulations in this area. The states in which our cable television systems operate have adopted such regulations. Utilities must provide cable television systems and telecommunications carriers with nondiscriminatory access to any pole, conduit or rights-of-way controlled by the utility.
The FCC has adopted regulations to govern the charges for pole attachments used by companies providing telecommunications services, including cable operators, and for attachments used by cable operators to provide Internet access services. The states in which we operate have, to date, adopted the FCC regulations, with minor exceptions, although they remain free to adopt other pole attachment rules.
Telemarketing.
The FCC and the Federal Trade Commission have adopted rules limiting the telemarketing practices of cable operators.
Privacy.
Our collection and disclosure of subscribers personal information is subject to a variety of Federal and state privacy requirements, including those imposed specifically on cable operators by the Communications Act.
Other FCC Regulation.
The FCC regulates us in such areas as technical standards, and emergency alerts. We also are prohibited by the Communications Act from transmitting obscene programming over our cable systems. The FCC is also tasked by Congress to promote compatibility between cable television systems and other consumer electronic equipment. The FCC is currently reviewing proposed standards for compatibility of digital equipment.
The FCC also imposes restrictions on our origination cablecasting channels and imposes rules governing political broadcasts; ownership and control of cable home wiring in single family residences and multiple dwelling units; closed captioning on networks we carry; and limitations on advertising contained in childrens programming that we carry.
The FCC requires us to pay annual regulatory fees for its services that we may pass on to subscribers. Other fees are assessed for the FCC licenses we hold for business radio, cable television relay systems and earth stations. These fees may not be collected from our subscribers.
Federal Copyright Regulation.
We are required to pay copyright royalty fees to receive a statutory compulsory license to carry broadcast television signals. The U.S. Copyright Office has increased our royalty fees from time to time and has, at times, recommended to Congress changes in the statutory compulsory licenses for cable television carriage of broadcast signals. Such changes, if made, could adversely affect the ability of our cable television systems to obtain such programming, and could increase the cost of such programming.
High-Speed Internet In March 2002, the FCC determined that broadband Internet access services like Optimum Online should be classified as information services for regulatory purposes, and the Supreme Court upheld that determination. The FCC has traditionally subjected information services to a lesser degree of regulation than telecommunications services, which are offered to the public for a fee on a common carrier basis. The FCC has asked whether it should nonetheless require cable operators to provide transmission capacity to unaffiliated Internet service providers. The outcome of the FCCs proceeding could affect the regulatory obligations imposed on Optimum Online, and the extent to which states and local authorities may regulate it or assess fees upon revenues generated by it. The FCC has adopted principles, but not 20 rules, that similarly state that consumers are entitled to access all lawful Internet content using their broadband connections.
Currently, the Communications Acts limitations on our collection and disclosure of cable subscribers personal information also apply with respect to broadband Internet access service provided by cable operators. Broadband Internet access service is also subject to other federal and state privacy laws applicable to electronic communications. Additionally, the FCC has ruled that providers of broadband Internet access services like Optimum Online must comply with the FCCs regulations implementing the Communications Assistance for Law Enforcement Act (CALEA), which requires providers to make their services and facilities accessible for law enforcement intercept requests. The compliance deadline for these providers is May14, 2007. Various other federal and state laws apply to providers of services that are accessible through Optimum Online, including copyright laws, prohibitions on obscenity, and a ban on unsolicited commercial e-mail.
Online content provided by Cablevision is also subject to these laws.
VoIP The FCC, Congress, and several state commissions are examining issues surrounding the provision of VoIP services like Optimum Voice. In February 2004, the FCC initiated a generic rulemaking proceeding concerning the legal and regulatory implications of IP-based services, including VoIP services. In November 2004, the FCC determined that VoIP services with certain characteristics, including cable-provided VoIP services, are interstate services subject to federal rather than state jurisdiction. The FCCs determination has been appealed to a federal court of appeals. Although the FCC has not concluded its generic rulemaking proceeding, it has applied some regulations to VoIP service providers like Optimum Voice that have certain characteristics (these services are known as interconnected VoIP services). There are several other proceedings pending in which the FCC is reviewing the application of additional regulations to VoIP services. The outcome of the FCCs generic proceeding or other pending proceedings could affect the regulatory obligations imposed on Optimum Voice.
Emergency 911 Services.
In June 2005, the FCC determined that interconnected VoIP services are required to provide enhanced 911 emergency services to their customers and must obtain affirmative acknowledgements that their customers understand the potential limitations of emergency 911 services offered in connection with interconnected VoIP services. The FCC ruled that interconnected VoIP service providers were not permitted to further market their services unless they could provide 911 services and obtain all necessary acknowledgements from existing and new customers.
CALEA.
In May 2006, the FCC determined that interconnected VoIP service providers must comply with CALEA. Interconnected VoIP service providers like Optimum Voice are required to be compliant by May 14, 2007.
Universal Service . The FCC decided in June 2006 that interconnected VoIP services such as Optimum Voice should be required to contribute to the universal service fund on an interim basis. The amount of universal service contribution for interconnected VoIP service providers is based on a percentage of revenues earned from end user interstate services. The FCC developed three alternatives under which an interconnected VoIP service provider may elect to calculate its universal service contribution: (1)an interim safe harbor that assumes 64.9% of the providers end user revenues are interstate; (2)a traffic study, which has been pre-approved by the FCC, to determine an allocation for interstate end user revenues; or (3)actual interstate and international end user revenues. If an interconnected VoIP service provider calculates its universal service contributions based on its actual percentage of interstate calls, the interstate classification of the service might no longer apply, in which case the interconnected VoIP service provider could be subject to regulation by each state in which it operates as well as federal regulation.
21 Other Services Cablevision provides other services and features over its cable system, such as games and interactive advertising, that may be subject to a range of federal, state, and local laws such as privacy and consumer protection regulations. Cablevision also maintains various websites that provide information and content regarding its businesses and offer merchandise for sale. The operation of these websites is also subject to a similar range of requirements.
Telecommunications Services The Telecommunications Act of 1996 was enacted to remove barriers to entry in the local telephone market that continues to be monopolized by the Bell Operating Companies (BOCs) and other ILECs by preempting state and local laws that restrict competition and by requiring ILECs to provide competitors, such as cable operators and long distance companies, with nondiscriminatory access and interconnection to the BOC and ILEC networks and access to certain portions of their communications networks (known as network elements) at cost-based rates. The 1996 Telecommunications Act entitles our Lightpath subsidiary to certain rights, but as a telecommunications carrier, it also subjects Lightpath to regulation by the FCC and the states. Lightpaths designation as a telecommunications carrier also results in other regulations that may affect Lightpath and the services it offers.
Interconnection and Intercarrier Compensation.
The 1996 Telecommunications Act requires Lightpath to interconnect directly or indirectly with other telecommunications carriers. In some cases, interconnecting carriers must compensate each other for the transport and termination of calls on their network ( i.e.
, intercarrier compensation). Accordingly, Lightpath is entitled, in some cases, to compensation from carriers when it terminates their originating calls on its network and in other cases is required to compensate another carrier for utilizing that carriers network to terminate traffic. The FCC has adopted limits on the amounts of compensation that may be charged for certain types of traffic.
Universal Service.
Lightpath is required to contribute to federal and state universal service funds. Currently, the FCC assesses Lightpath for payments and other subsidies on the basis of a percentage of interstate revenue it receives from certain customers. The FCC has placed limits on the mark-up carriers may place on the universal service line items on their customer bills. States may also assess such payments and subsidies for state universal service programs.
Other Federal Regulation.
Lightpath is also subject to other FCC requirements in connection with the interstate long distance services it provides, including the payment of fees to fund the Telecommunication Relay Services fund, local number portability administration, the North American Numbering Plan, and the payment of regulatory fees to support the FCC.
CPNI and Marketing Restrictions.
Lightpath is required to comply with the FCCs rules restricting use of customer proprietary network information (CPNI), which includes obtaining permission in certain cases prior to utilizing a customers information to market service. Lightpaths communications with its customers are subject to FCC, Federal Trade Commission, and state regulations on telemarketing, the sending of commercial e-mail messages, and the sending of commercial fax messages.
State Regulation.
Lightpath is also subject to regulation by the state commissions in each state in which it provides service. In order to provide service, Lightpath must seek approval from each such state commission and may at times require local approval to construct facilities. Lightpath is currently authorized and provides service in New York, Connecticut, and New Jersey. Lightpaths regulatory obligations vary from state to state and include some or all of the following requirements: filing tariffs (rates, terms and conditions); filing operational, financial, and customer service reports; seeking approval to transfer the assets or capital stock of the telephone company; seeking approval to issue stocks, bonds, and other forms of indebtedness of the telephone company; reporting customer service and quality of 22 service requirements; making contributions to state universal service support programs; geographic build-out; and other matters relating to competition.
Programming and Entertainment Cable television programming networks, such as those owned by Rainbow Media Holdings, are regulated by the FCC in certain respects if they are affiliated with a cable television system operator like Cablevision. Other FCC regulations, although imposed on cable television operators and satellite operators, affect programming networks indirectly.
Closed Captioning and Advertising Restrictions on Childrens Programming.
Certain of Rainbow Media Holdings networks must provide closed-captioning of programming for the hearing impaired, and its programming and Internet websites intended primarily for children 12 years of age and under must comply with certain limits on advertising.
Indecency and Obscenity Restrictions .
Cable operators and other distributors are prohibited from transmitting obscene programming, and our affiliation agreements generally require us to refrain from including such programming on our networks.
Program Access . The program access provisions of the Federal Cable Act generally require us to make Rainbow Media Holdings satellite-delivered video programming available to competing multichannel video programming providers, such as DBS providers and telephone companies on nondiscriminatory prices, terms and conditions, subject to certain exceptions specified in the statute and the FCCs rules. Rainbow Media Holdings cannot have exclusive contracts with cable operators for these services. The program-access rules do not generally cover terrestrially-delivered programming created by cable-system affiliated programmers such as Rainbow Media Holdings.
Effect of Must-Carry Requirements.
The FCCs implementation of the statutory must-carry obligations requires cable and DBS operators to give broadcasters preferential access to channel space. This reduces the amount of channel space that is available for carriage of Rainbow Media Holdings networks by cable television systems and DBS operators.
Satellite Carriage.
All satellite carriers must under federal law offer their service to deliver Rainbow Media Holdings and its competitor programming networks on a nondiscriminatory basis (including by means of a lottery). A satellite carrier cannot unreasonably discriminate against any customer in its charges or conditions of carriage. Numerous competing satellite services today provide transponders that Rainbow Media Holdings could use to deliver its programming networks.
MVDDS An indirect subsidiary of Rainbow Media Holdings owns a 90% interest in an entity that holds MVDDS licenses in 45 metropolitan areas including New York, Miami, Los Angeles, and Cleveland. These licenses are for a 10 year term, with a renewal expectancy based on a showing of substantial service within each of these market areas at the end of 5 and 10 years into the license period. The FCCs rules prohibit the Company from holding more than a 20% interest in the MVDDS license in the New York market because of common ownership with the Companys cable systems there. Absent a waiver of this restriction by the FCC, the Company would need to divest all or a sufficient portion of its investment in the New York City MVDDS license to comply with the restriction. On October18, 2006, the FCC granted a one-year extension, until October18, 2007, for the Company to come into compliance with the FCCs ownership restrictions. We cannot provide any assurance that the FCC would grant a further waiver necessary for the Company to retain its interest in the New York license.
23 Employees and Labor Relations As of December31, 2006, we had 13,938 full-time, 2,280 part-time and 5,857 temporary employees of which 508, 1,214 and 3,476, respectively, were covered under collective bargaining agreements. We believe that our relations with employees are satisfactory.
Our Internet address is www.cablevision.com and the investor relations section of our web site is located at http://www.cablevision.com/index.jhtml?pageType=investor. We make available free of charge, on or through the investor relations section of our web site, annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as well as proxy statements, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
Item 1A.
Risk Factors Government investigations and litigation relating to stock option matters are pending, the scope and outcome of which could have a negative impact on the price of our securities and our business.
On August8, 2006 the Company disclosed that, based on a voluntary review of past practices in connection with grants of stock options and stock appreciation rights (SARs), we had determined that the grant date and exercise price assigned to a number of our stock option and SAR grants during the 1997-2002 period did not correspond to the actual grant date and the closing price of our common stock on the actual grant date. In such cases, the date assigned to the grant corresponded to the date of a unanimous written consent executed by the members of the compensation committee of the Companys Board of Directors, but the date of that consent did not correspond to the actual date of the grant. In nearly all such cases, the stock price on the assigned date was lower, sometimes substantially lower, than the price on the date the award was actually granted. At all relevant times, the Companys stock plan required that the exercise price of options be not less than the fair market value per share of the Companys common stock on the date of grant. In addition, two awards of options and one option modification were also incorrectly accounted for as having been granted to employees or modified for employees. One of these two awards was to the Companys former compensation consultant (which was subsequently cancelled in 2003) and the other award related to an executive officer whose death occurred after the stated grant date of the award and before the actual grant date. As a result, the Company restated its consolidated financial statements for 1997 through March31, 2006 as reported in its amended 2005 Form10-K and its amended March31, 2006 Form10-Q filed with the SEC on September21, 2006. In addition, the Company notified the Internal Revenue Service of the stock option review and provided the IRS an adjustment to reduce the Companys net operating loss carry forward by $86.2million for all tax years through December31, 2004 and in connection with the Companys filing of its 2005 tax return, the net operating loss was further reduced by $2.2million. We have advised the SEC and the U.S. Attorneys Office for the Eastern District of New York of these matters and each has commenced an investigation. We received a grand jury subpoena from the U.S. Attorneys Office for the Eastern District of New York seeking documents related to the stock options issues. We received a document request from the SEC relating to its informal investigation into these matters. We are cooperating fully with such investigations and intend to continue to do so. In addition, purported derivative lawsuits (including one purported combined derivative and class action lawsuit) relating to our past stock option and SAR grants have been filed. On October27, 2006, the Board of Directors established a special litigation committee of the Board, consisting of two newly appointed directors. The special litigation committee was given responsibility to review and analyze the facts and circumstances surrounding claims that have been raised in the options litigation in which the Company has been named as a nominal defendant, and which purport to have been brought derivatively on behalf of the Company. The special litigation committee has full and sole authority to consider and determine whether or not prosecution of such claims is in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders, and what actions the Company should take with respect to the cases. We are unable to predict the outcome of these government investigations and lawsuits but such matters will result in substantial legal and other defense costs, have occupied and will continue to occupy the time and attention of our management team and could have a material adverse impact on us and our stock price, including increased stock price volatility, and could negatively impact our business and our ability to raise additional funds in the future.
24 We have substantial indebtedness and we are highly leveraged, which reduces our capability to withstand adverse developments or business conditions.
We have incurred substantial amounts of indebtedness to finance operations, to upgrade our cable plant and acquire other cable television systems, programming networks, sources of programming and other businesses. We also have incurred indebtedness in order to offer our new services to our current and potential customers. We have also incurred substantial debt to pursue activities outside our core businesses such as our acquisitions of the Wiz, Clearview Cinemas and our development of Rainbow DBS. In 2006, CSC Holdings incurred $3.5billion of debt, approximately $3.0billion of which was distributed to Cablevision to fund a $10 per share dividend on its common stock and approximately $414million of which was used to repay existing indebtedness, including interest, fees and expenses. We may continue to incur substantial amounts of debt in the future. At December31, 2006, our total indebtedness aggregated approximately $12.5billion. Because of our substantial indebtedness, we are highly leveraged and we will continue to be highly leveraged. This means that our payments on our borrowings are significant in relation to our revenues and cash flow. This leverage exposes us to significant risk in the event of downturns in our businesses (whether through competitive pressures or otherwise), in our industries or in the economy generally, because although our cash flows would decrease in this scenario, our required payments in respect of indebtedness will not.
Our financial statements reflect substantial losses from continuing operations and a significant stockholders deficiency, and we expect that our net losses, absent one-time gains, may continue and remain substantial for the foreseeable future, which may reduce our ability to raise needed capital.
We reported losses from continuing operations of $133.0million, $127.5million and $486.0million for the years ended December31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Our losses from continuing operations primarily reflect our high interest expense, our preferred stock dividends (through May 2004) and depreciation and amortization charges, which may continue to be significant. Our continuing losses may limit our ability to raise needed financing, or to do so on favorable terms, as those losses are taken into account by the organizations that issue investment ratings on our indebtedness.
A lowering or withdrawal of the ratings assigned to our debt securities by ratings agencies may further increase our future borrowing costs and reduce our access to capital.
Our debt ratings are below the investment grade category, which results in higher borrowing costs as well as a reduced pool of potential purchasers of our debt as some investors will not purchase debt securities that are not rated in an investment grade rating category. In addition, there can be no assurance that any rating assigned will remain for any given period of time or that a rating will not be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency, if in that rating agencys judgment, future circumstances relating to the basis of the rating, such as adverse changes, so warrant. A lowering or withdrawal of a rating may further increase our future borrowing costs and reduce our access to capital. All of Cablevisions, CSC Holdings and RNS ratings were placed on creditwatch with negative implications and review for downgrade by both Standard & Poors and Moodys twice during 2006 as a result of the stock option review and subsequent non-compliance with the financial reporting and other information delivery requirements under the Companys debt instruments and also following the announcement of the Dolan Family Group proposal. While neither occurrence resulted in any downgrades to our ratings and we are no longer on creditwatch, there can be no assurance that this will not occur again.
Our financial performance may be harmed by the significant and credible risks of competition in our cable television, high-speed data and voice businesses.
Competition in our various business segments could adversely affect our business and financial results and our ability to service our debt. Our cable systems compete with a variety of video programming distribution systems, including broadcast television stations, direct broadcast satellite systems, incumbent telephone companies, multichannel multipoint distribution services, satellite master antenna television 25 systems, private home dish earth stations, and OVS operators like RCN.
We face intense competition from incumbent telephone companies such as Verizon and AT&T, which have recently begun to offer video programming in addition to their voice and high-speed Internet access services, evidencing their commitment to compete across all of the Companys telecommunications products. Their competitive position has been improved by recent operational, regulatory and legislative advances that they have made.
Verizon and AT&T are constructing fiber-based systems designed to provide video programming as well as voice and data services to residential customers in our service area. The attractive demographics of the Companys service territory make this region a desirable location for investment in video distribution technologies by these companies. This intense competition could lead to pressure upon our pricing of telecommunications services, our ability to add or retain customers and our ability to expand services purchased by our customers. Cable systems also compete with the entities that make videotaped movies and programs available for home rental or sale. Actual or potential video competition to cable systems is also possible from the delivery of video programming over the Internet directly to subscribers, and wireless technologies, including LMDS and MVDDS.
Our high-speed data offering to consumers faces intense competition from other providers of high-speed Internet access including services offered by local telephone providers such as Verizon and AT&T. These lines may also be used to offer video programming in competition with our cable systems. In addition, DBS providers have tested the use of certain spectrum to offer satellite-based high-speed data services and are offering broadband data services via partnerships and marketing arrangements with other providers such as Verizon, AT&T and Earthlink. The FCC has allocated spectrum for use by licensed and unlicensed providers of wireless broadband service, including LMDS, MVDDS, and WiMax, which, if offered within Cablevisions service area, could compete with our high-speed data offering.
Our voice service offerings to consumers face intense competition from other providers of voice services, including local exchange carriers such as Verizon and AT&T and other competitive providers of voice services, as well as VoIP providers like Vonage.
Our ability to meet our obligations under our indebtedness may be restricted by limitations on our subsidiaries ability to send us funds.
Our principal subsidiaries include various entities that own cable television systems or own interests in programming networks. Our ability to pay interest on and repay principal of our outstanding indebtedness is dependent primarily upon the operations of our subsidiaries and the distributions or other payments of the cash they generate to us in the form of dividends, loans or advances. Our subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities and have no obligation, contingent or otherwise, to pay any amounts due on our public indebtedness or to make any funds available to us to do so. RNS is a party to a credit agreement and indentures that contain various financial and operating covenants that restrict the payment of dividends or other distributions. In addition, our subsidiaries creditors, including trade creditors, in the event of a liquidation or reorganization of any subsidiary, would be entitled to a claim on the assets of such subsidiaries, including any assets transferred to those subsidiaries, prior to any of our claims as a stockholder. Creditors of our subsidiaries are likely to be paid in full before any distribution is made to us. To the extent that we are a creditor of a subsidiary, our claims would be subordinated to any security interest in the assets of that subsidiary and/or any indebtedness of that subsidiary senior to that held by us.
Our ability to incur debt and the use of our funds are limited by significant restrictive covenants in financing agreements.
Our credit facilities and debt instruments contain various financial and operating covenants that, among other things, require the maintenance of financial ratios and restrict the relevant borrowers ability to incur debt from other sources and to use funds for various purposes, including investments in some subsidiaries. Violation of these covenants could result in a default that would permit the parties who have lent money under such credit facilities and such other debt instruments to: 26  restrict the ability to borrow undrawn funds under such credit facilities, and  require the immediate repayment of the borrowings thereunder.
These events would be likely to have a material adverse effect on the value of our debt and equity securities.
We will need to raise significant amounts of funding over the next several years to fund capital expenditures, repay existing obligations and meet other obligations and the failure to do so successfully could adversely affect our business.
Our business is very capital intensive. Operating and maintaining our cable television plant requires significant amounts of cash payments to third parties. Capital expenditures for our businesses were $886.3million $769.3million, and $697.5million in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively, and primarily include payments for consumer premises equipment, such as new digital video cable boxes and modems, as well as infrastructure and maintenance expenditures on our cable and Lightpath telecommunications network, in addition to the capital requirements of our other businesses. We expect these capital expenditures to continue to be significant over the next several years, as we continue to market our video, high-speed data and voice services to our customers. Some of our subsidiaries have substantial future capital commitments in the form of long-term contracts that require substantial payments over a long period of time. For example, rights agreements with sports teams under which their games are carried on the networks of certain of our programming subsidiaries almost always involve multi-year contracts that are difficult and expensive to terminate. In addition, if we fail to spend the requisite amounts under our affiliation agreement with EchoStar, up to a maximum of $500million during the 2005-2010 period in our VOOM HD Networks programming business, EchoStar may terminate the affiliation agreement. We also face the need to renovate our Madison Square Garden Arena in the next several years or pursue a relocation alternative either of which would require significant funding. We will not be able to generate sufficient cash internally to both meet these obligations and repay our indebtedness at maturity. In that regard, we also have maturing debt obligations (excluding collateralized indebtedness) of approximately $3.0billion over the 2007-2009 period. Accordingly, we will have to do one or more of the following:  refinance existing obligations to extend maturities,  raise additional capital, through debt or equity issuances or both,  cancel or scale back current and future spending programs, or  sell assets or interests in one or more of our businesses.
However, you should not assume that we will be able to refinance existing obligations or raise any required additional capital or to do so on favorable terms. If we are unable to pursue our current and future spending programs, we may be forced to cancel or scale back those programs. Our choice of which spending programs to cancel or reduce may be limited. Failure to successfully pursue our capital expenditure and other spending plans could materially and adversely affect our ability to compete effectively.
Government investigations relating to improper expense recognition and the timing of recognition of launch support, marketing and other payments under affiliation agreements are pending, the scope and outcome of which could have a negative impact on the price of our securities and our business.
In June 2003, we reported that we had discovered certain improper expense accruals primarily at the national programming services of our Rainbow segment. Following that announcement, investigations were commenced by the SEC and the U.S. Attorneys Office for the Eastern District of New York. In addition, in July 2004, in connection with our response to comments of the staff of the Division of Corporation Finance of the SEC with respect to our filings under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, we 27 provided the SEC with information with respect to certain of our previous restatements/adjustments relating to the timing of recognition of launch support, marketing and other payments under affiliation agreements. The SEC is continuing to investigate the improper expense recognition matter and the timing of recognition of launch support, marketing and other payments under affiliation agreements. The matter has occupied and will continue to occupy the time and attention of our management team. We are cooperating fully and intend to continue to do so. Any adverse developments in connection with this matter, including a determination that we have acted improperly, could have a material adverse effect on our stock price, including increased stock price volatility and could negatively impact our business and our ability to raise additional funds in the future.
Programming costs of our cable television systems are increasing and we may not have the ability to pass these increases on to our subscribers.
Programming costs paid by our cable television systems are one of our largest categories of expenses. These costs have increased rapidly and are expected to continue to increase, particularly with respect to costs for sports programming. We may not be able to pass programming cost increases on to our subscribers due to the increasingly competitive environment. If we are unable to pass these increased programming costs on to our subscribers, our operating results would be adversely affected.
We face intense competition in obtaining content for our programming businesses.
Rainbow Media Holdings programming businesses compete with other programming networks to secure desired programming. Most of Rainbow Media Holdings programming is obtained through agreements with other parties that have produced or own the rights to such programming. Competition for and choices of programming will increase as the number of programming networks increases. Other programming networks that are affiliated with programming sources such as movie or television studios, film libraries or sports teams may have a competitive advantage over Rainbow Media Holdings in this area.
The success of our programming businesses depends upon the availability of programming that is adequate in quantity and quality, and our ability to obtain carriage of our programming.
Rainbow Media Holdings programming networks compete in two highly competitive markets. First, our programming networks compete with other programming networks to obtain distribution on cable television systems and other multichannel video programming distribution services. Second, the success of our programming businesses depends upon the availability of programming that is adequate in quantity and quality. In particular, the national entertainment networks depend upon the availability of films, television programming and music in their niche markets and the regional sports networks depend upon the availability of local sports programming, especially professional sports programming.
The national entertainment networks are parties to film rights agreements giving the networks the right to carry certain films during certain window periods. The regional sports networks are parties to sports rights agreements giving the networks the right to carry all or a portion of the games of local professional sports teams. These rights agreements expire at varying times, may be terminated by the other party if we are not in compliance with the terms of the agreement and, in the case of all sports rights agreements, are subject to league rules and regulations. In addition, our programming businesses are parties to affiliation agreements with distributors that require those programming businesses to deliver programming that meets certain standards as to quantity, quality or content. For example, certain affiliation agreements require that our regional sports networks deliver a certain minimum number of local professional sports games. We would not be able to satisfy those requirements if we did not have the rights to carry the prerequisite number of games from the local professional sports teams. In 2005, we settled litigation with Time Warner, which attempted to terminate its affiliation agreement with AMC, based on the allegation that AMC had changed its programming. To the extent that we do not or are not able to satisfy the quantity, quality or content standards set forth in our affiliation agreements, distributors may have the 28 right to terminate those affiliation agreements. We cannot assure you that our programming businesses will ultimately be successful in negotiating renewals of their rights agreements or program supply agreements or in negotiating adequate substitute rights or program supply agreements in the event that their rights or program supply agreements expire or are terminated.
A significant amount of our book value consists of intangible assets that may not generate cash in the event of a voluntary or involuntary sale.
At December31, 2006, we reported $9.8billion of consolidated total assets, of which $2.5billion were intangible. Intangible assets include franchises from city and county governments to operate cable television systems, affiliation agreements, and amounts representing the cost of some acquired assets and businesses in excess of their identifiable tangible and intangible assets. While we believe that the carrying value of our intangible assets are recoverable, you should not assume that we would receive any cash from the voluntary or involuntary sale of these intangible assets, particularly if we were not continuing as an operating business. We urge you to read carefully our consolidated financial statements contained herein, which provide more detailed information about these intangible assets.
We are controlled by the Dolan family. As a result of their control of us, the Dolan family has the ability to prevent or cause a change in control or approve, prevent or influence certain actions by us.
We have two classes of common stock:  ClassB common stock, which is generally entitled to ten votes per share and is entitled collectively to elect 75% of the Cablevision Board of Directors, and  ClassA common stock, which is entitled to one vote per share and is entitled collectively to elect the remaining 25% of the Cablevision Board of Directors.
As of February22, 2007, the Dolan family, including trusts for the benefit of members of the Dolan family, collectively owned all of Cablevisions ClassB common stock, less than 3% of Cablevisions Class A common stock and approximately 74% of the total voting power of all the outstanding Cablevision common stock. Of this amount, our Chairman, CharlesF. Dolan, owned approximately 41% of Cablevisions ClassB common stock, less than 1% of Cablevisions ClassA common stock and approximately 30% of the total voting power of all the outstanding Cablevision common stock. The members of the Dolan family holding Class B common stock have executed a voting agreement that has the effect of causing the voting power of the ClassB stockholders to be cast as a block with respect to the election of the directors elected by the ClassB stockholders and any change of control transaction. The Dolan family is able to prevent a change in control of Cablevision and no person interested in acquiring Cablevision will be able to do so without obtaining the consent of the Dolan family. On June19, 2005, Cablevision received a proposal from the Dolan Family Group to acquire the outstanding, publicly-held interests in Cablevision following a pro-rata distribution to all Cablevision stockholders of Rainbow Media Holdings. On October24, 2005, Cablevision received a letter from the Dolan Family Group withdrawing the June19, 2005 proposal. In that letter, the Dolan Family Group also recommended that Cablevisions Board of Directors consider the declaration of a $3billion one-time, special dividend payable pro rata to all shareholders. The dividend was paid on April24, 2006 to holders of Cablevision NY Group ClassA common stock and Cablevision NY Group ClassB common stock. On October8, 2006, Cablevision received a proposal from the Dolan family to acquire all of the outstanding publicly-held interests in Cablevision, and the proposal was revised by the Dolan family on January12, 2007. The Special Transaction Committee of Cablevisions Board of Directors rejected the revised proposal as inadequate on January16, 2007. The revised proposal expired on January 17, 2007. This proposed transaction would have resulted in the incurrence by CSC Holdings of very substantial additional indebtedness. In both of their proposals, the Dolan family stated that they were only interested in pursuing their proposed transaction and would not sell their stake in Cablevision. There can be no 29 assurances that the Dolan family will not propose, undertake or consummate a similar transaction in the future.
As a result of the Dolan familys ownership of all of the ClassB common stock, the Dolan family has the power to elect all the directors of Cablevision subject to election by holders of ClassB common stock. In addition, Dolan family members may control stockholder decisions on matters in which holders of all classes of Cablevision common stock vote together as a single class. These matters could include the amendment of some provisions of Cablevisions certificate of incorporation and the approval of fundamental corporate transactions. In addition, the affirmative vote or consent of the holders of at least 66- 2/3% of the outstanding shares of the ClassB common stock, voting separately as a class, is required to approve the authorization or issuance of any additional shares of ClassB common stock. Furthermore, the Dolan family members also have the power to prevent any amendment, alteration or repeal of any of the provisions of Cablevisions certificate of incorporation that adversely affects the powers, preferences or rights of the ClassB common stock.
One purpose of the voting agreement referred to above is to consolidate Dolan family control of Cablevision. The Dolan family requested Cablevisions Board of Directors to exercise Cablevisions right, as a controlled company, to opt-out of the New York Stock Exchange listing standards that, among other things, require listed companies to have a majority of independent directors on their board and to have an independent corporate governance and nominating committee. Cablevisions Board of Directors and the directors elected by holders of Class A common stock each approved this request on March8, 2004.
Our business is subject to extensive government regulation and changes in current or future laws or regulations could restrict our ability to operate our business as we currently do.
The FCC and state and local governments extensively regulate the basic rates we may charge our customers for certain of our video services. They also regulate us in other ways that affect the daily conduct of our video delivery and video programming businesses, our telephone business and, possibly in the future, our high-speed data services business. Our businesses are dependent upon FCC licenses to carry on their operations. Any action by the FCC, the states of New York, New Jersey or Connecticut, or concerted action by local regulators, the likelihood or extent of which we cannot predict, could have a material adverse financial effect on us.
Pending FCC, Congressional and judicial proceedings may affect our businesses.
Changes in Franchising Requirements .
In 2006, Congress considered but did not enact legislation that, for the telephone companies and other wireline video competitors, would relax or eliminate some or all of the local franchising requirements applicable to existing cable operators. New Jersey enacted state franchise legislation in August 2006, but included a provision enabling existing operators to elect regulation under the new franchising scheme. Several other states, including New York and Connecticut, are considering or have considered similar legislation. In June2006, the Connecticut Department of Public Utility Control issued a decision concluding that AT&T did not need to obtain a cable franchise or comply with other cable regulatory requirements before offering its video services throughout Connecticut. The cable industry is currently challenging this decision in court.
In December 2006, the FCC adopted an order imposing a 90-day deadline on local franchising authority consideration of franchise applications from new video entrants, such as local telephone companies, that have pre-existing authority to occupy public rights-of-way authority. The FCC also preempted local franchising laws, regulations and requirements regarding such matters as fees, the provision of institutional networks, and system deployment, as applied to new entrants. The FCC issued a Further Notice of Proposed Rulemaking seeking comment on whether these limitations should also apply with 30 respect to incumbent cable operators, but tentatively concluded that they should not be applied to incumbent operators until their existing franchises are renewed.
Access Obligations and Net Neutrality .
Some parties have proposed federal, state and local requirements that would force cable systems to provide access to third-party Internet service providers in addition to services the cable system itself provides, such as our Optimum Online cable modem service. In 2002, the FCC asked whether it should nonetheless require cable operators to provide transmission capacity to unaffiliated Internet service providers. The outcome of the FCCs proceeding could affect the regulatory obligations imposed on Optimum Online, and the extent to which states and local authorities may regulate it or assess fees upon revenues generated by it. Relatedly, some members of Congress have suggested that cable operators and other broadband service providers should be subject to a net neutrality requirement barring them from interfering with subscriber access to Internet content or from reaching agreement with certain content providers for preferential access. The FCC has adopted principles, but not rules, that state that consumers are entitled to access all lawful Internet content using their broadband connections. We cannot predict whether the pending bills will become law or whether the FCC will adopt binding rules embodying these principles.
Must-Carry/Retransmission Consent . We are required by federal law to carry all local broadcast stations (must-carry), or, at the option of a local broadcaster, to obtain the broadcasters prior consent for retransmission of its signal (retransmission consent). When a broadcaster completes its transition from analog to digital transmission in February 2009, only its primary digital video stream will be entitled to must-carry. The FCC has twice found that dual must carry rules (requiring cable systems to carry both the analog and digital broadcast signals) would be unconstitutional. The FCC has also ruled that broadcasters may not demand mandatory carriage for other than the primary digital video programming stream. The orders rejecting dual must carry and mandatory multicasting are currently subject to petitions for reconsideration pending for the FCC. We cannot predict how the FCC will rule on those petitions or whether Congress will enact legislation modifying the FCCs orders.
In the wake of publicized disputes between several cable operators and broadcasters, several members of Congress have expressed concern that that current retransmission consent requirements and practices have had a negative effect on consumers, and stated that it is time for Congress to reexamine those requirements. Other members of Congress have suggested that binding arbitration may be an appropriate means of resolving such disputes. We cannot predict whether Congress will enact legislation to modify the retransmission consent scheme, or whether the FCC will modify its current rules governing this scheme.
Tiering/A La Carte . Some members of Congress have proposed requiring cable operators to offer programming services on an unbundled basis rather than as part of a tier or to provide a greater array of tiers to give subscribers the option of purchasing a more limited number of programming services. The FCC also has indicated an interest in requiring cable operators to offer programming services in this a la carte manner, and in February 2006 released a report finding substantial benefits in the a la carte model of delivering video programming. We cannot predict whether Congress or the FCC might adopt such a requirement, what form it would take, or the effect of such a requirement on our cable television business or Rainbow Media Holdings.
Program Access . The program access provisions of the Federal Cable Act barring providers of satellite-delivered cable-owned video programming from entering into exclusive distribution arrangements with cable operators are set to expire in October 2007. We cannot predict whether the ban on exclusive arrangements will be extended, or whether Congress will apply all or some of the program access requirements to terrestrially-delivered programming services, or what effect such an extension or other modifications might have on Rainbow Media Holdings or Cablevision.
Indecency and Obscenity Restrictions .
Cable operators and broadcasters are prohibited from transmitting obscene programming, but only broadcasters currently are subject to restrictions on the 31 transmission of indecent material. They may not transmit indecent programming when there is a reasonable risk of children in the audience (6a.m. to 10p.m.). Some Members of Congress have proposed expanding the prohibitions on indecent programming to include cable and satellite programs, and to prohibit violent programming, notwithstanding the availability of program blocking devices provided by cable and DBS operators. Penalties for violations of this restriction can be severe. We cannot predict the likelihood that such restrictions on cable programming can or will be imposed or the effect such restrictions would have on our cable television and cable programming businesses. Some members of Congress and the Chairman of the Federal Communications Commission have suggested that indecency restrictions for cable might be unnecessary if cable operators were to offer a separate tier of family programming or to offer programming services for purchase on an individual, a la carte, basis. We cannot predict whether the FCC or Congress would mandate such a tier or offering, or the effect of either such requirement on our cable television and cable programming businesses.
Diversity Requirements .
The FCC has announced that it may open a proceeding to examine whether the so-called 70/70 test in the Federal Cable Act has been satisfied. Under this provision, when cable systems with 36 or more activated channels are available to 70 percent of households within the United States, and when 70percent of those households subscribe to them, the FCC may promulgate any additional rules necessary to promote diversity of information sources. We cannot predict whether the FCC will impose any such requirements, the nature of any such requirements, or the effect of such on our cable television or cable programming businesses.
Ownership Limitations . Congress has required the FCC to set a national limit on the number of subscribers a cable company can serve, and a limit (the channel occupancy limit) on the number of channels that a cable operator can program on any given cable system with programming services controlled by that operator. In 2001, a federal appellate court invalidated the 30% national multichannel subscriber limit and the 40% channel occupancy limit that the FCC had imposed pursuant to this requirement. The FCC is reviewing the ownership rules in light of that decision. We cannot predict at this time how the FCC will rule on these matters.
Internet Access Service Consumer Protection.
The FCC is reviewing whether it should develop consumer protection requirements for all providers of broadband Internet access services like Optimum Online. Congress also is considering proposals that would require all broadband Internet access service providers to comply with various rules, such as customer privacy, consumer service standards, and access for persons with disabilities. We cannot predict what, if any, additional regulations will be imposed on Optimum Online.
VoIP . Our rollout of Optimum Voice, a VoIP service that is offered via our cable modem service as an add-on to our Optimum Online service, could also be affected by additional FCC decisions regulating VoIP, state attempts to regulate VoIP, and Congressional action. We cannot predict what, if any, statutory or regulatory obligations will be imposed on VoIP services like Optimum Voice, including the application of various indirect taxes, and what, if any, role state and local authorities will have in regulating these services.
Universal Service.
Lightpath and Optimum Voice are required to contribute to the federal universal service fund. Rather than use the current revenue-based approach, the FCC is considering assessing universal service contributions based on a flat-fee charge, such as a per-line or per-number charge. The FCC also is considering whether to apply universal service requirements to interconnected VoIP service providers on a permanent basis, and how contributions should be assessed in the future. States may also assess such payments and subsidies on Lightpath for state universal service programs, and some states are looking at whether VoIP services like Optimum Voice should be subject to state universal service contribution requirements. We cannot predict how the FCC and states may rule on these matters. Any changes to the assessment and recovery rules for universal service may affect Lightpaths and Optimum Voices financial results.
32 Intercarrier Compensation . The FCC is currently reviewing whether to adopt a new regime to govern intercarrier compensation, including the adoption of unified compensation rates. In addition, proceedings have been initiated to determine what intercarrier compensation charges should apply to the termination of VoIP traffic. We cannot predict how the FCC might rule on these matters. Any changes to the current intercarrier compensation regime may affect Lightpaths and Optimum Voices revenues.
CPNI.
The FCC is considering revising its CPNI rules to place additional restrictions on storage and use of CPNI. The revised rules may also extend the CPNI rules to VoIP services like Optimum Voice. Lightpath and Optimum Voice (if applicable) will be expected to comply with any future changes in CPNI regulations.
Our current franchises are non-exclusive and our franchisors need not renew our franchises.
Our cable television systems are operated primarily under non-exclusive franchise agreements with state or municipal government franchising authorities, in some cases with the approval of state cable television authorities. Consequently, our business is dependent on our ability to obtain and renew our franchises. Although we have never lost a franchise as a result of a failure to obtain a renewal, our franchises are subject to non-renewal or termination under some circumstances. In some cases, franchises have not been renewed at expiration, and we operate under temporary authority from the state while negotiating renewal terms with the franchise authorities. As of December31, 2006, one of our ten largest franchises is expired and we are currently operating in this area under temporary authority. Approximately 58,000 of the Companys basic video customers are in this franchise area.
Item 1B.
Unresolved Staff Comments None.
Item 2.
Properties We own our headquarters building located in Bethpage, New York with approximately 558,000square feet of space, and certain other real estate where our earth stations, headend equipment and microwave receiving antennae are located primarily in New York, New Jersey and Connecticut, aggregating approximately 662,000square feet of space. Through Madison Square Garden, we also own the Madison Square Garden Arena (with a maximum capacity of approximately 21,000 seats) and theater complex (approximately 5,600 seats) in New York City comprising approximately 985,600square feet and a training center in Greenburgh, New York with approximately 105,000square feet of space. We generally own all assets (other than real property) related to our cable television operations, including our program production equipment, headend equipment (towers, antennae, electronic equipment and satellite earth stations), cable system plant (distribution equipment, amplifiers, subscriber drops and hardware), converters, test equipment, tools and maintenance equipment. We also generally own our service and other vehicles.
We lease real estate where certain of our business offices, earth stations, transponders, microwave towers, warehouses, headend equipment, hub sites, program production studios, access studios and microwave receiving antennae are located, aggregating approximately 2,024,000square feet of space primarily in New York, New Jersey and Connecticut. We lease several business offices in Woodbury, New York with an aggregate of approximately 224,000square feet of space and business offices in Jericho, New York with approximately 621,000square feet of space. Of the amounts above, we currently sublease approximately 320,000square feet of space to third party tenants and approximately 58,000square feet of space is currently vacant. Other significant properties that are leased are in New York City and include approximately 145,000square feet housing Madison Square Gardens administrative offices, approximately 577,000square feet comprising Radio City Music Hall (approximately 5,900seats) and approximately 57,000square feet comprising the Beacon Theater (approximately 2,900 seats).
33 Clearview Cinemas leases 42 theaters (21 in New Jersey, 18 in New York, two in Pennsylvania and one in Connecticut) with approximately 37,000 seats and owns an additional nine theaters (five in New York and four in New Jersey) with approximately 6,100 seats. In addition, Clearview Cinemas manages a 940 seat theater in New York for a third party.
We believe our properties are adequate for our use.
Item 3.
Legal Proceedings Refer to Note18 to Cablevisions consolidated financial statements included in PartII, Item8 of this Annual Report on Form10-K for a discussion of our legal proceedings.
Item 4.
Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders Not applicable.
PART II Item 5.
Market for the Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities The information called for by Item201(d) of Regulation S-K under Item5 is hereby incorporated by reference to Cablevisions definitive proxy statement for its Annual Meeting of Shareholders anticipated to be held in May 2007 or if such definitive proxy statement is not filed with the Commission prior to April30, 2007, to an amendment to this report on Form10-K filed under cover of Form10-K/A.
Cablevision NY Group ClassA common stock is traded on the NYSE under the symbol CVC.
Price Range of Cablevision NY Group Class A Common Stock The following tables set forth for the periods indicated the intra-day high and low sales prices per share of the Cablevision NY Group ClassA common stock as reported on the NYSE: High Low Year   Ended December 31, 2006: First Quarter $ 27.35 $ 22.99 Second Quarter $ 28.65 $ 18.00 Third Quarter $ 24.52 $ 20.23 Fourth Quarter $ 28.80 $ 22.57 High Low Year   Ended December 31, 2005: First Quarter $ 31.64 $ 23.54 Second Quarter $ 33.86 $ 25.02 Third Quarter $ 32.94 $ 30.11 Fourth Quarter $ 30.75 $ 22.60 As of February22, 2007, there were 1,084 holders of record of Cablevision NY Group ClassA common stock.
There is no public trading market for the Cablevision NY Group ClassB common stock, par value $.01 per share. As of February22, 2007, there were 25 holders of record of Cablevision NY Group ClassB common stock.
All outstanding shares of common stock of CSC Holdings are held by Cablevision.
34 Dividends On April7, 2006, the Board of Directors of the Company declared a special cash dividend of $10.00 per share on each outstanding share of its Cablevision NY Group ClassA common stock and Cablevision NY Group ClassB common stock. The dividend was paid on April24, 2006 to holders of record at the close of business on April18, 2006. The dividend payment on all outstanding shares of Cablevision common stock and certain common stock equivalents amounted to approximately $2.8billion. In addition, up to approximately $126.8million representing $10.00 for each outstanding restricted share and each stock appreciation right and stock option vested as of December31, 2004, would be payable when, and if, the restrictions lapse on each restricted share and when, and if, such stock appreciation rights and stock options are exercised.
CSC Holdings paid approximately $60.6million of cash dividends on the Series H and M Preferred Stock in 2004.
Cablevision and CSC Holdings may pay dividends on their capital stock only from surplus as determined under Delaware law. If dividends are paid on the Cablevision NY Group common stock, holders of the Cablevision NY Group ClassA common stock and Cablevision NY Group ClassB common stock are entitled to receive dividends, and other distributions in cash, stock or property, equally on a per share basis, except that stock dividends with respect to Cablevision NY Group ClassA common stock may be paid only with shares of Cablevision NY Group ClassA common stock and stock dividends with respect to Cablevision NY Group ClassB common stock may be paid only with shares of Cablevision NY Group ClassB common stock. Cablevisions and CSC Holdings senior debentures and CSC Holdings senior subordinated debt instruments restrict the amount of dividends and distributions in respect of any shares of capital stock that can be made.
Recent Sales and Use of Proceeds None.
Cablevision NY Group Stock Performance Graph The chart below compares the performance of the Companys Cablevision NY Group Class A common stock with the performance of the Russell 3000 Index and a Peer Group Index by measuring the changes in Cablevision NY Group Class A common stock prices from December 31, 2001 through December 31, 2006. The chart has been adjusted for the distribution of the Rainbow Media Group Class A tracking stock on March 29, 2001 and subsequent exchange of the Rainbow Media Group Class A tracking stock for shares of Cablevision NY Group Class A common stock on August 20, 2002. As required by the SEC, the values shown assume the reinvestment of all dividends. Because no published index of comparable media companies currently reports values on a dividends-reinvested basis, the Company has created a Peer Group Index for purposes of this graph in accordance with the requirements of the SEC. The Peer Group Index is made up of companies that engage in cable television operations as a significant element of their business, although not all of the companies included in the Peer Group Index participate in all of the lines of business in which the Company is engaged and some of the companies included in the Peer Group Index also engage in lines of business in which the Company does not participate. Additionally, the market capitalizations of many of the companies included in the Peer Group are quite different from that of the Company. The common stocks of the following companies have been included in the Peer Group Index for 2006: Charter Communications, Inc., Comcast Corporation, Cox Communications, Inc. (through December 8, 2004 after which date Cox Communications was no longer a public company), Insight Communications Inc. (through December 16, 2005 after which date Insight Communications was no longer a public company) and Mediacom Communications Corporation. The chart assumes $100 was invested on December 31, 2001 in each of the Companys Cablevision NY Group Class A common stock, 35 the Russell 3000 Index and in a Peer Group Index and reflects reinvestment of dividends on a quarterly basis and market capitalization weighting.
FIVE YEAR CUMULATIVE TOTAL STOCKHOLDER RETURN FOR CABLEVISION NY GROUP, RUSSELL 3000 INDEX AND PEER GROUP CABLEVISION NY   GROUP 100 35 49 52 49 90 RUSSELL 3000   INDEX 100 77 99 109 114 130 PEER GROUP 100 65 90 91 71 116 Rainbow Media Group Stock Performance Graph The chart below compares the performance of the Companys Rainbow Media Group Class A tracking stock with the performance of the Russell 3000 Index and a Peer Group Index by measuring the changes in Rainbow Media Group Class A tracking stock prices for the period from March 30, 2001 (the date Rainbow Media Group Class A tracking stock commenced trading on the New York Stock Exchange) through August 20, 2002, (the date that Rainbow Media Group Class A tracking stock was exchanged for shares of Cablevision NY Group Class A common stock). The Peer Group Index is made up of companies that engage in cable programming operations as a significant element of their business, although not all of the companies included in the Peer Group Index participate in all of the lines of business in which the Company is engaged and some of the companies included in the Peer Group Index also engage in lines of business in which the Company does not participate. Additionally, the market capitalizations of many of the companies included in the Peer Group are quite different from that of the Company. The common stocks of the following companies have been included in the Peer Group Index: Viacom, Inc., Fox Entertainment Group, Inc., Liberty Media Corporation, The E.W. Scripps Company and The Walt Disney Company. The chart assumes $100 was invested on March 30, 2001 in each of the Companys Rainbow Media Group Class A tracking stock, the Russell 3000 Index and the Peer Group Index and reflects reinvestment of dividends on a quarterly basis and market capitalization weighting.
36 2001-2002 CUMULATIVE TOTAL STOCKHOLDER RETURN FOR RAINBOW MEDIA GROUP, RUSSELL 3000 INDEX AND PEER GROUP RAINBOW MEDIA   GROUP CLASS A TRACKING STOCK 100 99 78 95 95 34 36 RUSSELL 3000   INDEX 100 107 90 101 102 89 84 PEER GROUP 100 114 77 92 97 84 78 37 Item 6.
Selected Financial Data The operating and balance sheet data included in the following selected financial data have been derived from the consolidated financial statements of Cablevision and CSC Holdings. The selected financial data presented below should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements of Cablevision and CSC Holdings and the notes thereto included in Item8 of this Report.
CablevisionSystemsCorporation YearsEndedDecember31, 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 (Dollarsinthousands,exceptpersubscriber,perunitandpersharedata) Operating Data: Revenues, net $ 5,927,462 $ 5,172,478 $ 4,632,537 $ 4,017,283 $ 3,664,365 Operating expenses: Technical and   operating (excluding depreciation, amortization and impairments shown below) 2,707,970 2,296,908 2,191,247 1,859,994 1,664,441 Selling, general   and administrative 1,480,187 1,291,845 1,184,682 1,093,755 900,593 Other operating   income   (95,758 ) (4,758 )  Restructuring   charges (credits) (3,484 ) (537 ) (835 ) 10,725 74,091 Depreciation and   amortization (including impairments) 1,128,813 1,083,643 1,138,675 1,042,496 862,671 Operating income 613,976 500,619 214,526 15,071 162,569 Other income (expense): Interest   expense, net (891,015 ) (748,078 ) (712,708 ) (604,802 ) (485,316 ) Equity in net   income (loss) of affiliates 6,698 3,219 (12,997 ) 428,753 (41,691 ) Gain (loss) on   sale of cable assets and programming and affiliate interests, net  64,968 2,232 (13,644 )  Gain (loss) on   investments, net 290,052 (138,312 ) 134,598 235,857 (881,394 ) Writeoff of   deferred financing costs (14,083 )  (18,961 ) (388 ) (6,931 ) Gain (loss) on   derivative contracts, net (253,712 ) 119,180 (165,305 ) (208,323 ) 924,037 Loss on   extinguishment of debt (13,125 )  (78,571 )  (17,237 ) Minority   interests (8,894 ) (5,471 ) (50,307 ) (116,777 ) (201,853 ) Miscellaneous,   net 2,837 651 63 3,726 (5,644 ) Loss from continuing   operations before income taxes (267,266 ) (203,224 ) (687,430 ) (260,527 ) (553,460 ) Income tax   benefit (expense) 134,217 75,691 201,397 (23,534 ) 77,100 Loss from continuing   operations (133,049 ) (127,533 ) (486,033 ) (284,061 ) (476,360 ) Income (loss) from   discontinued operations, net of taxes 7,446 216,853 (185,476 ) (22,351 ) 572,422 Income (loss) before   extraordinary item (125,603 ) 89,320 (671,509 ) (306,412 ) 96,062 Extraordinary loss on   investment, net of taxes   (7,436 )   Income (loss) before   cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle (125,603 ) 89,320 (678,945 ) (306,412 ) 96,062 Cumulative effect of a   change in accounting principle, net of taxes (862 )     Net income (loss) $ (126,465 ) $ 89,320 $ (678,945 ) $ (306,412 ) $ 96,062 38 CablevisionSystemsCorporation YearsEndedDecember31, 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 (Dollarsinthousands,exceptpersubscriber,perunitandpersharedata) INCOME   (LOSS) PER SHARE: Basic   and diluted net income (loss) per common share Loss from continuing operations $ (0.47 ) $ (0.45 ) $ (1.69 ) $ (1.00 ) $ (1.62 ) Income (loss) from discontinued operations $ 0.03 $ 0.77 $ (0.65 ) $ (0.08 ) $ 1.95 Extraordinary loss $  $  $ (0.03 ) $  $  Cumulative effect of a change in accounting   principle $  $  $  $  $  Net income (loss) $ (0.45 ) $ 0.32 $ (2.36 ) $ (1.07 ) $ 0.33 Basic and diluted weighted average common shares (in   thousands) 283,627 281,936 287,085 285,486 293,516 Cash dividends declared and   paid per common share $ 10.00 $  $  $  $  39 CablevisionSystemsCorporation December31, 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 (Dollarsinthousands,exceptpersubscriber,perunitandpersharedata) Balance Sheet Data: Total assets $ 9,844,857 $ 9,851,112 $ 11,416,982 $ 11,259,558 $ 10,605,071 Bank debt 4,992,500 1,851,500 2,489,887 2,357,039 2,085,768 Collateralized   indebtedness 921,574 1,170,126 1,553,427 1,617,620 1,234,106 Senior notes and   debentures 5,993,956 5,992,760 5,991,564 3,692,699 3,691,772 Subordinated notes and   debentures 497,011 746,621 746,231 599,203 599,128 Notes payable 18,843 15,905 150,000 150,000  Capital leases 61,458 59,787 71,563 84,856 86,208 Total debt 12,485,342 9,836,699 11,002,672 8,501,417 7,696,982 Minority interests 49,670 55,190 685,877 580,766 626,571 Preferred stock of CSC   Holdings    1,624,295 1,544,294 Stockholders deficiency (5,339,253 ) (2,493,380 ) (2,647,264 ) (2,002,890 ) (1,737,894 ) YearsEndedDecember31, 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 Statistical Data   (Unaudited): Revenue Generating Units : Basic Video Customers(1) 3,127,000 3,027,000 2,963,000 2,945,000 2,963,000 iO Digital Video   Customers 2,447,000 1,963,000 1,483,000 905,000 217,000 Optimum Online HighSpeed   Data Customers 2,039,000 1,694,000 1,353,000 1,057,000 770,000 VoIP Customers 1,209,000 731,000 273,000 29,000  Residential Telephone   Customers 5,000 8,000 9,000 11,000 12,000 Total Revenue   Generating Units 8,827,000 7,423,000 6,081,000 4,947,000 3,962,000 Customer Relationships(2) 3,300,000 3,175,000 3,096,000 3,051,000 3,015,000 Homes Passed(3) 4,562,000 4,484,000 4,443,000 4,401,000 4,369,000 Penetration: Basic Video to Homes   Passed 68.5 % 67.5 % 66.7 % 66.9 % 67.8 % iO Digital to Basic   Penetration 78.2 % 64.8 % 50.1 % 30.8 % 7.3 % Optimum Online to Homes   Passed 44.7 % 37.8 % 30.4 % 24.0 % 17.6 % VoIP to Homes Passed 26.5 % 16.3 % 6.1 % 0.7 %  Average Monthly Revenue per Basic Video Customer   (RPS)(4) $ 115.30 $ 100.46 $ 88.33 $ 77.49 $ 66.07 (1) Basic video subscribers represent each customer account (set up and segregated by customer name and address), weighted equally and counted as one subscriber, regardless of size, revenue generated, or number of boxes, units, or outlets. In calculating the number of customers, the Company counts all customers other than inactive/disconnected customers. Free accounts are included in the customer counts along with all active accounts, but they are limited to a prescribed group such as current and retired Company employees, and free status is not granted to regular customers as a promotion. Such accounts are also not entirely free, as they typically generate revenue through pay-per-view or other services for which they must pay. The Company counts a bulk commercial customer, such as a hotel, as one customer, and does not count individual room units at that hotel. In counting bulk residential customers such as an apartment building, the Company counts each subscribing family unit within the building as one customer, but does not count the master account for the entire building as a customer.
(2) Number of customers who receive at least one of the Companys services, including business modem only customers.
(3) Homes passed represent the estimated number of single residence homes, apartment and condominium units and commercial establishments passed by the cable distribution network in areas serviceable without further extending the transmission lines.
(4) Average monthly revenue per basic subscriber is calculated by dividing the GAAP revenues for the Telecommunications Services segment, less the revenue attributable to Lightpath for the fourth quarter of each year presented by the average monthly number of basic video subscribers served by the Companys cable television systems for the same period. For purposes of this calculation, both revenue and average number of basic video subscribers exclude the Companys Lightpath operations because Lightpaths third-party revenues are unrelated to the Companys cable television system subscribers.
40 CSCHoldings,Inc.
YearsEndedDecember31, 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 (Dollarsinthousands,exceptpersubscriber,perunitandpersharedata) Operating Data: Revenues, net $ 5,927,462 $ 5,172,478 $ 4,632,537 $ 4,017,283 $ 3,664,365 Operating expenses: Technical and   operating (excluding depreciation, amortization and impairments shown below) 2,707,970 2,296,908 2,191,247 1,859,994 1,664,441 Selling, general   and administrative 1,480,187 1,291,845 1,184,682 1,093,755 900,593 Other operating   income   (95,758 ) (4,758 )  Restructuring   charges (credits) (3,484 ) (537 ) (835 ) 10,725 74,091 Depreciation and   amortization (including impairments) 1,128,813 1,083,643 1,138,675 1,042,496 862,671 Operating income 613,976 500,619 214,526 15,071 162,569 Other income (expense): Interest   expense, net (762,189 ) (623,669 ) (627,660 ) (601,012 ) (485,316 ) Equity in net   income (loss) of affiliates 6,698 3,219 (12,997 ) 428,753 (41,691 ) Gain (loss) on   sale of cable assets and programming and affiliate interests, net  64,968 2,232 (13,644 )  Gain (loss) on   investments, net 290,052 (138,312 ) 134,598 235,857 (881,394 ) Write-off of   deferred financing costs (14,083 )  (18,961 ) (388 ) (6,931 ) Gain (loss) on   derivative contracts, net (253,712 ) 119,180 (165,305 ) (208,323 ) 924,037 Loss on   extinguishment of debt (13,125 )  (78,571 )  (17,237 ) Minority   interests (8,894 ) (5,471 ) (50,307 ) (24,517 ) (27,337 ) Miscellaneous,   net 2,837 828 63 3,726 (5,644 ) Loss from continuing   operations before income taxes and dividend requirements (138,440 ) (78,638 ) (602,382 ) (164,477 ) (378,944 ) Income tax   benefit (expense) 81,386 24,698 166,272 (25,126 ) 77,100 Loss from continuing   operations before dividend requirements (57,054 ) (53,940 ) (436,110 ) (189,603 ) (301,844 ) Dividend   requirements applicable to preferred stock    (92,260 ) (174,516 ) Loss from continuing   operations (57,054 ) (53,940 ) (436,110 ) (281,863 ) (476,360 ) Income (loss) from   discontinued operations, net of taxes 7,446 216,853 (185,476 ) (22,351 ) 572,422 Income (loss)   applicable to common shareholder before extraordinary item (49,608 ) 162,913 (621,586 ) (304,214 ) 96,062 Extraordinary loss on   investment, net of taxes   (7,436 )   Income (loss)   applicable to common shareholder before cumulative effect of a change in   accounting principle (49,608 ) 162,913 (629,022 ) (304,214 ) 96,062 Cumulative effect of a   change in accounting principle, net of taxes (862 )     Net income (loss) applicable to common shareholder $ (50,470 ) $ 162,913 $ (629,022 ) $ (304,214 ) $ 96,062 41 CSCHoldings,Inc.
December31, 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 (Dollarsinthousands,exceptpersubscriber,perunitandpersharedata) Balance Sheet   Data: Total assets $ 9,973,228 $ 9,957,801 $ 11,390,840 $ 11,270,880 $ 10,605,071 Bank debt 4,992,500 1,851,500 2,489,887 2,357,039 2,085,768 Collateralized   indebtedness 921,574 1,170,126 1,553,427 1,617,620 1,234,106 Senior notes and   debentures 4,493,956 4,492,760 4,491,564 3,692,699 3,691,772 Subordinated   notes and debentures 497,011 746,621 746,231 599,203 599,128 Notes payable 18,843 15,905 150,000 150,000  Capital leases 61,458 59,787 71,563 84,856 86,208 Total debt 10,985,342 8,336,699 9,502,672 8,501,417 7,696,982 Minority   interests 49,670 55,190 685,877 580,766 626,571 Redeemable   preferred stock    1,544,294 1,544,294 Exchangeable   preferred stock    80,001  Stockholders   deficiency (3,803,327 ) (967,974 ) (1,181,509 ) (1,993,019 ) (1,790,572 ) YearsEndedDecember31, 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 Statistical Data   (Unaudited): Revenue   Generating Units : Basic Video Customers (1) 3,127,000 3,027,000 2,963,000 2,945,000 2,963,000 iO Digital Video Customers 2,447,000 1,963,000 1,483,000 905,000 217,000 Optimum Online High-Speed Data Customers 2,039,000 1,694,000 1,353,000 1,057,000 770,000 VoIP Customers 1,209,000 731,000 273,000 29,000  Residential Telephone Customers 5,000 8,000 9,000 11,000 12,000 Total Revenue   Generating Units 8,827,000 7,423,000 6,081,000 4,947,000 3,962,000 Customer Relationships   (2) 3,300,000 3,175,000 3,096,000 3,051,000 3,015,000 Homes Passed (3) 4,562,000 4,484,000 4,443,000 4,401,000 4,369,000 Penetration: Basic Video to Homes Passed 68.5 % 67.5 % 66.7 % 66.9 % 67.8 % iO Digital to Basic Penetration 78.2 % 64.8 % 50.1 % 30.8 % 7.3 % Optimum Online to Homes Passed 44.7 % 37.8 % 30.4 % 24.0 % 17.6 % VoIP to Homes Passed 26.5 % 16.3 % 6.1 % 0.7 %  Average Monthly Revenue   per Basic Video Customer (RPS) (4) $ 115.30 $ 100.46 $ 88.33 $ 77.49 $ 66.07 (1) Basic video subscribers represent each customer account (set up and segregated by customer name and address), weighted equally and counted as one subscriber, regardless of size, revenue generated, or number of boxes, units, or outlets. In calculating the number of customers, the Company counts all customers other than inactive/disconnected customers. Free accounts are included in the customer counts along with all active accounts, but they are limited to a prescribed group such as current and retired Company employees, and free status is not granted to regular customers as a promotion. Such accounts are also not entirely free, as they typically generate revenue through pay-per-view or other services for which they must pay. The Company counts a bulk commercial customer, such as a hotel, as one customer, and does not count individual room units at that hotel. In counting bulk residential customers such as an apartment building, the Company counts each subscribing family unit within the building as one customer, but does not count the master account for the entire building as a customer.
(2) Number of customers who receive at least one of the companys services, including business modem only customers.
(3) Homes passed represent the estimated number of single residence homes, apartment and condominium units and commercial establishments passed by the cable distribution network in areas serviceable without further extending the transmission lines.
(4) Average monthly revenue per basic subscriber is calculated by dividing the GAAP revenues for the Telecommunications Services segment, less the revenue attributable to Lightpath for the fourth quarter of each year presented by the average monthly number of basic video subscribers served by the Companys cable television systems for the same period. For purposes of this calculation, both revenue and average number of basic video subscribers exclude the Companys Lightpath operations because Lightpaths third-party revenues are unrelated to the Companys cable television system subscribers.
42 Item 7.
Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations This Annual Report contains statements that constitute forward looking information within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including restructuring charges, availability under credit facilities, levels of capital expenditures, sources of funds and funding requirements, among others. Investors are cautioned that such forward looking statements are not guarantees of future performance or results and involve risks and uncertainties and that actual results or developments may differ materially from the forward looking statements as a result of various factors. Factors that may cause such differences to occur include, but are not limited to:  the level of our revenues;  competition from existing competitors (such as direct broadcast satellite providers) and new competitors (such as telephone companies and high-speed wireless providers) entering our franchise areas;  demand for and growth of our digital video, high-speed data and voice services, which are impacted by competition from other services and the other factors discussed herein;  the cost of programming and industry conditions;  the regulatory environment in which we operate;  developments in the government investigations and litigation related to past practices of the Company in connection with grants of stock options and stock appreciation rights (SARs);  developments in the government investigations relating to improper expense recognition and the timing of recognition of launch support, marketing and other payments under affiliation agreements;  the outcome of litigation and other proceedings, including the matters described under Legal Matters and Other Matters in the notes to our consolidated financial statements;  general economic conditions in the areas in which we operate;  demand for advertising inventory;  our ability to obtain or produce content for our programming businesses;  the level of our capital expenditures;  the level of our expenses;  future acquisitions and dispositions of assets;  the demand for our programming among other cable television and DBS operators and telephone companies and our ability to maintain and renew affiliation agreements with cable television and DBS operators and telephone companies;  market demand for new services;  whether pending uncompleted transactions, if any, are completed on the terms and at the times set forth (if at all);  other risks and uncertainties inherent in the cable television business, the programming and entertainment businesses and our other businesses;  financial community and rating agency perceptions of our business, operations, financial condition and the industry in which we operate; and  the factors described in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including under the sections entitled Risk Factors and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contained herein.
We disclaim any obligation to update or revise the forward looking statements contained herein, except as otherwise required by applicable federal securities laws.
43 CABLEVISION SYSTEMS CORPORATION All dollar amounts, except per subscriber, per unit and per share data, included in the following discussion under this Item 7 are presented in thousands.
Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Summary Our future performance is dependent, to a large extent, on general economic conditions including capital market conditions, the impact of direct competition, our ability to manage our businesses effectively, and our relative strength and leverage in the marketplace, both with suppliers and customers.
Telecommunications Services Our Telecommunications Services segment derives revenues principally through monthly charges to subscribers of our video, high-speed data and voice services. These monthly charges include fees for cable television programming, as well as, in many cases, equipment rental, pay-per-view and video-on-demand, high-speed data and voice services. Revenue increases are derived from rate increases, increases in the number of subscribers to these services, upgrades by video customers in the level of programming package to which they subscribe, and additional services sold to our existing subscribers. We also derive revenues from the sale of advertising time available on the programming carried on our cable television systems. Revenues from advertising vary based upon the number and demographics of our subscribers who view the programming carried on our cable television systems. Because 59% of our basic video customers are already subscribers to our high-speed data services, our ability to grow our high-speed data services may be limited. Programming costs are the most significant part of our operating expenses and are expected to increase as a result of digital subscriber growth, additional service offerings and contractual rate increases.
Our cable television video services, which accounted for 46% of our consolidated revenues for the year ended December31, 2006, face competition from the direct broadcast satellite business and the delivery systems of incumbent telephone companies. There are two major providers of DBS service in the United States, each with significantly higher numbers of subscribers than we have. We compete with these DBS competitors by bundling our service offerings with products that the DBS companies cannot efficiently provide at this time, such as high-speed data service and voice service carried over the cable distribution plant, as well as by providing interactive and on demand services that are currently unavailable to a DBS subscriber, such as video-on-demand. As discussed in greater detail below, we face intense competition from incumbent telephone companies such as Verizon and AT&T, which have recently begun to offer video programming in addition to their voice and high-speed Internet access services, evidencing their commitment to compete across all of the Companys telecommunications products. Their competitive position has been improved by recent operational, regulatory and legislative advances that they have made. Historically, we have made substantial investments in the development of new and innovative programming options for our customers as a way of differentiating ourselves from our competitors. We likely will continue to do so in order to be a more effective competitor.
Our high-speed data services business, which accounted for 15% of our consolidated revenues for the year ended December31, 2006, faces competition from DSL providers, including Verizon and AT&T, and wireless Internet providers. These providers have become increasingly aggressive in their pricing strategies in recent years, and customers may decide that a reduced price is more important to them than the superior speed that cable modems provide. As discussed in greater detail below, another source of competition is incumbent telephone companies such as Verizon and AT&T. This competition, together with our already high penetration, is expected to slow our growth in cable modem penetration from the growth rates we have experienced in the past.
44 Our consumer voice offering, which accounted for approximately 6% of our consolidated revenues for the year ended December31, 2006, is competitive with incumbent offerings primarily on the basis of pricing, where unlimited United States, Canada and Puerto Rico long distance, regional and local calling, together with certain features for which the incumbent providers charge extra, are offered at one low price. To the extent the incumbents, who have financial resources that exceed those of the Company, decide to meet our pricing and/or features or reduce their pricing, future growth and success of this business may be impaired. The regulatory framework for cable modem service and voice service is being developed and changes in how we are regulated, including increased regulation, may affect our competitive position.
The telephone companies continue constructing systems designed to provide video programming as well as voice and data services to residential customers in our service area. AT&T has announced plans to begin offering video services in our service area in Connecticut, where it is currently permitted to offer such service without any state authorization. Verizon has constructed fiber to the home network plant that passes a significant number of households in our service area, though currently less than a quarter of the households according to our estimates. Verizon has obtained authority to provide video service (it already has or needs no authority to provide phone and data services) for a majority of these homes passed, on a statewide basis in New Jersey and through numerous local franchises in New York. Verizon has so far not indicated any plans to offer video service in Connecticut. See Item 1. Business-Regulation for a discussion of regulatory and legislative issues and Item 1A. Risk Factors - Pending FCC, Congressional and judicial proceedings may affect our businesses.
Optimum Lightpath, our commercial voice and commercial broadband business, which accounted for approximately 4% of our consolidated revenues for the year ended December31, 2006, operates in the most competitive business telecommunications market in the country and competes against the very largest telecommunications companies  incumbent local exchange companies such as Verizon and AT&T, other competitive local exchange companies and long distance companies. To the extent that dominant market leaders decide to reduce their prices, future success of our Optimum Lightpath may be impaired. The trend in business communications has been shifting from a wired voice medium to a wireless, data medium. Should this trend accelerate dramatically, future growth of Optimum Lightpath may be negatively impacted.
Rainbow In our Rainbow segment, which accounted for 15% of our consolidated revenues for the year ended December31, 2006, we earn revenues in two principal ways. First, we receive affiliate fee payments principally from cable television systems and DBS operators. These revenues are generally on a per subscriber basis and earned under multi-year contracts with those operators referred to as affiliation agreements. The specific affiliate fees we earn vary from operator to operator and also vary among our networks but are generally based upon the number of each operators subscribers who receive our programming, referred to as viewing subscribers. The second principal source of revenues in this segment is from advertising. Under our agreements with cable television system and DBS operators, we have the right to sell a specific amount of national advertising time on our programming networks. Our advertising revenues are more variable than affiliate fees because most of our advertising is sold on a short-term basis, not under long-term contracts. Also, our advertising revenues vary based upon the popularity of our programming as measured by rating services.
We seek to grow our revenues in the Rainbow segment by increasing the number of distributors that carry our services and the number of viewing subscribers. We refer to this as our penetration. AMC, which is widely distributed, has less ability to increase its penetration than our newer, less penetrated services. Our revenues may also increase over time through contractual rate increases stipulated in certain of our affiliation agreements. In negotiating for increased or extended carriage, we may be subject to requests by distributors to make upfront payments in exchange for additional subscribers or extended carriage, which we record as 45 deferred carriage fees and which are amortized as a reduction to revenue over the period of the related subscriber guarantee, or to waive or accept lower subscriber fees if certain additional subscribers are provided. We also may help fund the distributors efforts to market our channels or we may permit distributors to offer limited promotional periods without payment of subscriber fees. As we continue our efforts to add subscribers, our subscriber revenue may be negatively affected by subscriber acquisition fees (deferred carriage), discounted subscriber fees and other payments; however, we believe that these transactions generate a positive return on investment over the contract period. We seek to increase our advertising revenues by increasing the number of minutes of national advertising and by increasing rates for such advertising, but, ultimately, the level of our advertising revenues is directly related to the overall distribution of our programming, penetration of our services, and the popularity (including within desirable demographic groups) of our services as measured by rating services.
The principal goals in this segment are to increase our affiliation fee revenues and our advertising revenues by increasing distribution and penetration of our national services. To do this we must continue to contract for and produce high-quality, attractive programming. Our greatest challenge arises from the increasing concentration of subscribers in the hands of a few cable television systems and DBS operators because of the disparate bargaining power between us and the largest cable television systems and DBS operators. This increased concentration could adversely affect our ability to increase the penetration of our services or even result in decreased penetration. In addition, this concentration gives those operators greater leverage in negotiating the price and other terms of affiliation agreements. Moreover, as a result of this concentration, the potential impact of a loss of any one of our major affiliates would have a significant impact on this segment.
Madison Square Garden Madison Square Garden which accounted for 14% of our consolidated revenues for the year ended December31, 2006, consists of professional sports teams (principally the New York Knicks of the National Basketball Association (NBA) and the New York Rangers of the National Hockey League (NHL), along with the Hartford Wolf Pack of the American Hockey League and the New York Liberty of the Womens National Basketball Association), the MSG Networks sports programming business, and an entertainment business. It also operates the Madison Square Garden Arena, Radio City Music Hall, the Hartford Civic Center and Rentschler Field (sports and entertainment venues in Connecticut), and effective January1, 2007, the Beacon Theater in New York City. Madison Square Garden faces competitive challenges unique to these activities. We derive revenues in this segment primarily from the MSG Networks (see below), the sale of tickets, including luxury box rentals, to sporting and entertainment events, from rental rights fees paid to this segment by promoters that present events at our entertainment venues and the sports teams share of league-wide distributions of national television rights fees and royalties. We also derive revenue from the sale of advertising at our owned and operated venues, from food, beverage and merchandise sales at these venues and from the licensing of our trademarks. MSG Networks derives its revenues from affiliate fees paid by cable television providers (including our cable television systems), satellite providers that provide video service and sales of advertising. This segments financial performance is related to the performance of all the teams presented and the attractiveness of its entertainment events.
Our sports teams financial success is dependent on their ability to generate advertising sales, paid attendance, luxury box rentals, and food, beverage and merchandise sales. To a large extent, the ability of the teams to build excitement among fans, and therefore produce higher revenue streams, depends on the teams winning performance, which generates regular season and playoff attendance and luxury box rentals, and which also supports increases in prices charged for tickets, luxury box rentals, and advertising placement. Each teams success is dependent on its ability to acquire highly competitive personnel. The governing bodies of the NBA and the NHL have the power and authority to take certain actions that they deem to be in the best interest of their respective leagues, which may not necessarily be consistent with maximizing our professional sports teams results of operations.
46 MSG Networks sports programming business is affected by our ability to secure desired programming of professional sports teams, in addition to our proprietary programming. The continued carriage and success of the teams that are telecast by us will impact our revenues from distribution and from the rates charged for affiliation and advertising, as well as the ability to attract advertisers. In the second quarter of 2004, the New York Mets gave notice of termination of its broadcast rights agreement with MSG Networks. The termination of the rights agreement was effective after the end of the 2005 baseball season. Although the termination of the rights agreement had a negative impact on Madison Square Gardens revenue, it did not have a significant impact on Madison Square Gardens results of operations for the year ended December31, 2006.
Madison Square Gardens entertainment business is largely dependent on the continued success of our Radio City Christmas Spectacular and our touring Christmas shows, as well as the availability of, and our venues ability to attract concerts, family shows and events.
The dependence of this segments revenues on its sports teams and Christmas shows generally make it seasonal with a disproportionate share of its revenues and operating income being derived in the fourth quarter of each year.
Stock Option Related Matters We incurred substantial expenses in 2006 for legal, accounting, tax and other professional services in connection with the Companys voluntary review of past practices in connection with grants of stock options and SARs, the preparation of restated financial statements, stock option related litigation, and the investigations by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and the U.S. Attorneys Office for the Eastern District of New York. We expect to continue to incur substantial expenses in connection with these matters. Refer to Note 18 of our consolidated financial statements.
Critical Accounting Policies In preparing its financial statements, the Company is required to make certain estimates, judgments and assumptions that it believes are reasonable based upon the information available. These estimates and assumptions affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the periods presented. The significant accounting policies which we believe are the most critical to aid in fully understanding and evaluating our reported financial results include the following: Impairment of Long-Lived and Indefinite-Lived Assets: The Companys long-lived and indefinite lived assets at December31, 2006 include excess costs over fair value of net assets acquired (goodwill) of approximately $1,032,117, approximately $1,510,034 of other intangible assets ($893,879 of which are indefinite-lived intangibles) and approximately $3,714,842 of property, plant and equipment. Such assets accounted for approximately 64% of the Companys consolidated total assets.
In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No.142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, the Company is required to determine goodwill impairment using a two-step process. The first step of the goodwill impairment test is used to identify potential impairment by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount, including goodwill. If the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, the second step of the goodwill impairment test is performed to measure the amount of impairment loss, if any. The second step of the goodwill impairment test compares the implied fair value of the reporting units goodwill with the carrying amount of that goodwill. If the carrying amount of the reporting units goodwill exceeds the implied fair value of that goodwill, an impairment 47 loss is recognized in an amount equal to that excess. The implied fair value of goodwill is determined in the same manner as the amount of goodwill that would be recognized in a business combination.
The impairment test for other indefinite-lived intangible assets consists of a comparison of the fair value of the intangible asset with its carrying value. If the carrying value of the intangible asset exceeds its fair value, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to that excess. For other long-lived assets, including intangibles that are amortized, the Company evaluates assets for recoverability when there is an indicator of potential impairment. If the undiscounted cash flows from a group of assets being evaluated is less than the carrying value of that group of assets, the fair value of the asset group is determined and the carrying value of the asset group is written down to fair value.
In assessing the recoverability of the Companys goodwill and other long-lived assets, the Company must make assumptions regarding estimated future cash flows and other factors to determine the fair value of the respective assets. These estimates and assumptions could have a significant impact on whether an impairment charge is recognized and also the magnitude of any such charge. Estimates of fair value are primarily determined using discounted cash flows and comparable market transactions. These valuations are based on estimates and assumptions including projected future cash flows, discount rate, determination of appropriate market comparables and the determination of whether a premium or discount should be applied to comparables. For the Telecommunications Services segment, these valuations also include assumptions for average annual revenue per customer, number of homes passed, operating margin and market penetration as a percentage of homes passed, among other assumptions. For the Madison Square Garden and Rainbow segments, these valuations also include assumptions for projected average rates per basic and viewing subscribers, number of events (MSG segment only), access to sports programming and film rights and the cost of such programming and film rights, amount of programming time that is advertiser supported, number of advertising spots available and the sell through rates for those spots, average fee per advertising spot, and operating margins, among other assumptions. If these estimates or material related assumptions change in the future, we may be required to record additional impairment charges related to our long-lived assets.
In order to evaluate the sensitivity of the fair value calculations of the Companys reporting units on the impairment calculation for indefinite-lived intangibles, the Company applied a hypothetical 10% decrease to the fair values of each reporting unit. This hypothetical decrease would have no impact on the impairment analysis for any of the Companys reporting units.
Rights to feature film inventory acquired under license agreements along with the related obligations are recorded at the contract value when a license agreement is executed or the license period has begun, unless there is uncertainty with respect to either cost, acceptability or availability, then when the uncertainty is resolved. Costs are amortized to technical and operating expense on the straight-line basis over the respective license periods. We periodically review the programming usefulness of our feature film inventory based on a series of factors, including ratings, type and quality of program material, standards and practices, and fitness for exhibition based on the programming of the individual programming service. If we determine that substantially all of the films in a film license agreement have no future programming usefulness and will no longer be exploited, we would record a write-off for the portion of the unamortized cost of the film license agreement that was attributed to those films.
In 2004, the Company recorded impairment losses totaling $354,812 related to its decision to seek strategic alternatives for the Rainbow DBS segment of its operations.
The Company recorded impairment charges of $90,540 included in depreciation and amortization expense relating to long-lived assets and other indefinite-lived intangible assets and $75,805 included in technical and operating expenses representing the write down of certain film and programming contracts relating to its VOOM HD Networks programming service. In addition, the Company recorded an impairment charge relating to the Rainbow DBS satellite distribution business of $155,415 reflecting the excess of the carrying value over the estimated fair value of long-lived assets and goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets and a charge of approximately $33,052representing the write off of equipment inventory and deposits which 48 have been recorded in discontinued operations . In addition to the Rainbow DBS segment impairment losses, we recorded impairment losses of approximately $1,640, $663and $297 in the years ended December31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively, included in technical and operating expense, representing the impairment of certain film and programming contracts and $2,104 and $7,697 in 2006 and 2005, respectively, included in depreciation and amortization related to certain other long-lived assets and intangibles primarily within our theater operations and PVI Virtual Media business in 2006 and within our theater operations and Rainbow segment in 2005.
Useful Lives of Finite-Lived Intangible Assets: The Company has recognized intangible assets for affiliation relationships, affiliation agreements, advertiser relationships, season ticket holder relationships and suite holder contracts and relationships as a result of the Regional Programming Partners restructuring transaction with News Corporation in April 2005. In addition, the Company has also recognized intangible assets for affiliation agreements and advertiser relationships as a result of the July 2003 repurchase of Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer, Inc.s (MGM) 20% interest in each of American Movie Classics Company LLC, WE:Womens Entertainment and The Independent Film Channel LLC and the repurchase of NBCs interests in Rainbow Media Holdings in various transactions in 2001 and 2002. The Company has determined that such intangible assets have finite lives and has estimated those lives to be 4 to 11 years for affiliation agreements, 24 years for affiliation relationships, 7 to 10 years for advertiser relationships, 10 to 15 years for season ticket holder relationships and 3 to 11 years for suite holder contracts and relationships. At December31, 2006, the carrying values, net of accumulated amortization, were $416,886 for affiliation agreements and affiliation relationships, $36,002 for broadcast rights and other agreements, $61,257for advertiser relationships, $64,978 for season ticket holder relationships, $15,352 for suite holder contracts and relationships and $21,680 for other intangibles.
The amount we originally allocated in purchase accounting to the affiliation agreements and affiliation relationships finite-lived intangibles in our consolidated financial statements is the estimated aggregate fair value of those affiliation agreements, affiliation relationships and the related customer relationships. The useful lives for the affiliation agreements were determined based upon an analysis of the weighted average lives of existing agreements the Company had in place with its major customers at the time that purchase accounting was applied, plus an estimate for renewals of such agreements. The Company has been successful in renewing its affiliation agreements and maintaining customer relationships in the past and believes it will be able to renew its major affiliation agreements and maintain those customer relationships in the future. However, it is possible that the Company will not successfully renew such agreements as they expire or that if it does, the net revenue earned may not equal or exceed the net revenue currently being earned, which could have a significant adverse impact on our business. In light of these facts and circumstances, the Company has determined that an estimated useful life of 4 to 11years for affiliation agreements and 24 years for affiliation relationships is appropriate depending on the nature of the underlying intangible asset.
There have been periods when an existing affiliate agreement has expired and the parties have not finalized negotiations of either a renewal of that agreement or a new agreement for certain periods of time. In substantially all these instances, the affiliates continued to carry and pay for the service under oral or written interim agreements until execution of definitive replacement agreements or renewal. In one case during 2004, there was a 10day period in which an affiliate was restricted from carrying certain of the Companys sports and entertainment networks because the parties had not reached agreement on contract renewal terms. We reached a short-term agreement with the affiliate at the end of the 10day period and that affiliate continuously carried the networks pursuant to successive subsequent short-term agreements through March7, 2005. However, we were unable to reach an agreement with this affiliate at expiration on March7, 2005, and this affiliate discontinued carriage of certain of the Companys sports networks. On May9, 2005, we reached a multi-year agreement on key rate and positioning terms for carriage of these sports networks and the parties subsequently entered into definitive documentation 49 reflecting such agreement. See Impairment of Long-Lived and Indefinite-Lived Assets discussion above.
If an affiliate were to cease carrying the service on an other than temporary basis, the Company would record an impairment charge for the then remaining carrying value of that affiliate agreement intangible asset. If the Company were to renew an affiliate agreement at rates that produced materially less net revenue compared to the net revenue produced under the previous agreement, the Company would evaluate the impact on its cash flows and, if necessary, would further evaluate such indication of potential impairment by following the policy described above under Impairment of Long-Lived and Indefinite-Lived Assets for the asset group containing that intangible. The Company also would evaluate whether the remaining useful life of the affiliate agreement remained appropriate. Based on December31, 2006 carrying values, if the estimated life of all affiliate agreements and affiliation relationships were shortened by 10%, the effect on amortization in the year ending December31, 2007 would be to increase our annual amortization expense by approximately $6,683.
Valuation of Deferred Tax Assets: Deferred tax assets have resulted primarily from the Companys future deductible temporary differences and NOLs. In assessing the realizability of deferred tax assets, management considers whether it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax asset will not be realized. The Companys ability to realize its deferred tax assets depends upon the generation of sufficient future taxable income and tax planning strategies to allow for the utilization of its NOLs and deductible temporary differences. If such estimates and related assumptions change in the future, the Company may be required to record additional valuation allowances against its deferred tax assets, resulting in additional income tax expense in the Companys consolidated statement of operations. Management evaluates the realizability of the deferred tax assets and the need for additional valuation allowances quarterly. At this time, based on current facts and circumstances, management believes that it is more likely than not that the Company will realize benefit for its gross deferred tax assets, except those deferred tax assets against which a valuation allowance has been recorded which relate to certain state net operating loss carry forwards. In 2006, the Company recorded a decrease in the valuation allowance of $10,404 relating to certain state net operating loss carry forwards. In 2005 and 2004, the Company recorded increases in the valuation allowance of $6,459 and $14,036, respectively, relating to certain state net operating loss carry forwards. During 2006 and 2005, certain state net operating loss carry forwards expired prior to utilization. The deferred tax asset corresponding to the expired net operating loss carry forwards had been fully offset by a valuation allowance. The associated deferred tax asset and valuation allowance were both reduced by $2,638 and $6,953 in 2006 and 2005, respectively.
Plant and Equipment: Costs incurred in the construction of the Companys cable television system, including line extensions to, and upgrade of, the Companys hybrid fiber-coaxial infrastructure and headend facilities are capitalized. These costs consist of materials, subcontractor labor, direct consulting fees, and internal labor and related costs associated with the construction activities. The internal costs that are capitalized consist of salaries and benefits of Company employees and the portion of facility costs, including rent, taxes, insurance and utilities, that supports the construction activities. These costs are depreciated over the estimated life of the plant and headend facilities. Costs of operating the plant and the technical facilities, including repairs and maintenance and call completion fees, are expensed as incurred.
Costs incurred to connect businesses or residences that have not been previously connected to the infrastructure or digital platform are also capitalized. These costs include materials, subcontractor labor, internal labor to connect, provision and provide on-site and remote technical assistance and other related costs associated with the connection activities. In addition, on-site and remote technical assistance during the provisioning process for new digital product offerings are capitalized. The departmental activities supporting the connection process are tracked through specific metrics, and the portion of departmental 50 costs that is capitalized is determined through a time weighted activity allocation of costs incurred based on time studies used to estimate the average time spent on each activity. New connections are amortized over 5 years or 12 years for residence wiring and feeder cable to the home, respectively. The portion of departmental costs related to reconnection, programming service up- and down- grade, repair and maintenance, and disconnection activities are expensed as incurred.
Defined Benefit Pension Plans: The Company sponsors both funded and unfunded defined benefit pension plans in various forms covering employees who meet the applicable eligibility requirements. The Companys company-wide plans include a non-contributory cash balance retirement plan, an unfunded non-qualified excess cash balance plan and an unfunded supplemental defined benefit plan (collectively, the Cablevision Qualified and Non-qualified Defined Benefit Plans). In addition, Madison Square Garden sponsors a non-contributory pension plan covering its non-union employees (hired prior to January1, 2001), an unfunded non-qualified defined benefit pension plan and two non-contributory pension plans covering certain of its union employees (collectively, the Madison Square Garden Qualified and Non-qualified Defined Benefit Plans).
The Company utilizes actuarial methods required by Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No.87, Employers Accounting for Pensions (Statement No.87), in calculating the liability and expense related to these plans. These actuarial methods require numerous assumptions in an attempt to estimate future events , including the discount rate, expected long-term rate of return on plan assets and the rate of future compensation increases, as determined annually by the Company. Material changes in the pension costs of the plans may occur in the future due to changes in these assumptions, changes in the number of the plan participants, changes in the level of benefits provided, changes in asset levels and changes in legislation.
Our assumptions reflect our historical experience and managements best judgment regarding future expectations.
Since liabilities under defined benefit plans are measured on a discounted basis, the discount rate is a significant assumption.
The discount rate is subject to change each year, consistent with changes in applicable high-quality, long-term corporate bond indices. Based on the expected duration of the benefit payments for the plans, we refer to applicable bond yields (such as Moodys Aaa Corporate Bonds) and the Buck Consultants Discount Rate Model (which is developed by examining the yields on selected highly rated corporate bonds), to select a rate at which we believe the plans benefits could be effectively settled. Based on the published rates and the results from the Buck Consultants Discount Rate Model as of December31, 2006 and 2005, we used the following weighted average discount rates for the Cablevision Qualified and Non-qualified Defined Benefit Plans and the Madison Square Garden Qualified and Non-qualified Defined Benefit Plans: Weighted-AverageDiscountRateUsedto CalculatetheBenefitObligationat December31,2006 December31,2005 Cablevision   Qualified and Non-qualified Defined Benefit Plans 5.80 % 5.80 % Madison Square Garden   Qualified and Non-qualified Defined Benefit Plans 6.14 % 5.75 % For the year ended December31, 2006, these discount rates had an aggregate effect of decreasing the Madison Square Garden Qualified and Non-qualified Plans benefit obligation by approximately 51 $6,797. There was no effect on the benefit obligation for the Cablevision Qualified and Non-qualified Defined Benefit Plans.
The expected long-term return on plan assets is based on a periodic review and modeling of the plans asset allocation structure over a long-term horizon. Expectations of returns for each asset class are the most important of the assumptions used in the review and modeling and are based on comprehensive reviews of historical data and economic/financial market theory. The expected long-term rate of return was selected from within the reasonable range of rates determined by (a) historical real returns, net of inflation, for the asset classes covered by the investment policy, and (b) projections of inflation over the long-term period during which benefits are payable to plan participants. The expected rate of return for the Cablevision Qualified and the Madison Square Garden Qualified Defined Benefit Plans was 8.00% for 2006 and 2005, respectively.
The following table reflects the Companys estimates of the possible effects of changes in the discount rates and expected rates of return on its 2007 net periodic benefit cost and its benefit obligation at December31, 2006 for the Cablevision Qualified and Non-qualified Defined Benefit Plans and the Madison Square Garden Qualified and Non-qualified Defined Benefit Plans: DiscountRate 25BasisPointsIncrease 25BasisPointsDecrease Increase (Decrease) in NetPeriodic BenefitCost Projected Benefit Obligation NetPeriodic BenefitCost Projected Benefit Obligation Cablevision   Qualified and Non-qualified Defined Benefit Plans $ (223 ) $ (2,701 ) $ 418 $ 2,890 Madison Square Garden   Qualified and Non-qualified Defined Benefit Plans (517 ) (4,362 ) 578 4,856 ExpectedRateofReturn Increase(Decrease)inNetPeriodicBenefitCost 25BasisPoints Increase 25BasisPoints Decrease Cablevision   Qualified and Non-qualified Defined Benefit Plans (309 ) 309 Madison Square Garden   Qualified and Non-qualified Defined Benefit Plans (131 ) 131 Generally accepted accounting principles include mechanisms that serve to limit the volatility in our earnings which otherwise would result from recording changes in the value of plan assets and benefit obligations in our consolidated financial statements in the periods in which those changes occur. For example, while the expected long-term rate of return on the Plans assets should, over time, approximate the actual long-term returns, differences between the expected and actual returns could occur in any given year. These differences contribute to the deferred actuarial gains or losses, which are then amortized over time.
52 The rate of future compensation increases is another assumption used by the Companys third party actuary. The weighted average rate of future compensation increases used in 2006 and in 2005 for the Cablevision Qualified Defined Benefit and Non-qualified Defined Benefit Plans and the Madison Square Garden Qualified and Non-qualified Defined Benefit Plans are as follows: NetPeriodic BenefitCost BenefitObligation 2006 2005 2006 2005 Cablevision Qualified   and Non-qualified Defined Benefit Plans 4.15 % 4.12 % 4.40 % 4.15 % Madison Square Garden Qualified and Non-qualified Defined Benefit   Plans 4.00 % 3.16 % 4.39 % 4.00 % In addition, the Companys actuary also uses other assumptions such as termination and mortality rates. The actuarial assumptions used by the Company may differ materially from actual results due to changing economic and market conditions, higher or lower benefit payments or longer or shorter life spans of participants, among other things. Differences between actual and expected occurrences could significantly impact the actual amount of net periodic cost and the benefit obligation recorded by the Company.
Certain Transactions The following transactions occurred during the periods covered by this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.
2005 Transactions.
In April 2005, the Company and News Corporation restructured Regional Programming Partners. As a result, the Company now owns 100% of Madison Square Garden and no longer owns interests in Fox Sports Net Ohio, Fox Sports Net Florida, National Sports Partners or National Advertising Partners. The Company also owns 100% of Fox Sports Net Chicago, which was shut down in June 2006, as well as 50% of Fox Sports Net New England and continues to own 60% of Fox Sports Net Bay Area.
In April 2005, subsidiaries of the Company entered into agreements with EchoStar relating to the launch and operation of the business of Rainbow HD Holdings, the Companys VOOM HD Networks high definition television programming service, subject to the closing of the sale of our satellite (Rainbow1) to EchoStar which occurred in November 2005. Under those arrangements, EchoStar was initially distributed a portion of the VOOM HD Networks programming service and, beginning in 2006 began carrying all 15 of the channels included in the programming service. In connection with the arrangements, EchoStar was issued a 20% interest in Rainbow HD Holdings, the Companys subsidiary owning the VOOM HD Networks, and that 20% interest will not be diluted until $500,000 in cash has been invested in Rainbow HD Holdings equity by the Company.
Under the terms of the affiliation arrangements with EchoStar covering the VOOM HD Networks for a 15year term, if Rainbow HD Holdings fails to spend $100,000 per year, up to a maximum of $500,000 in the aggregate, on its service offerings, EchoStar may terminate the affiliation agreement. The Company has the right to terminate the affiliation agreement if the VOOM HD Networks are discontinued in the future.
2004 Transactions.
In 2004, Rainbow DBS invested approximately $84,600 in exchange for a substantial interest in an entity that had acquired licenses from the FCC to provide multichannel video distribution and data service in 46 metropolitan areas in the United States.
53 In July 2004, Northcoast Communications, a 49.9% owned subsidiary of the Company, completed its sale of its wholly-owned subsidiary, Cleveland PCS, to an unaffiliated entity. The Company did not record any gain or loss in connection with the sale.
Results of Operations - Cablevision Systems Corporation The following table sets forth on a historical basis certain items related to operations as a percentage of net revenues for the periods indicated: STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS DATA YearsEndedDecember31, Increase 2006 2005 (Decrease) %ofNet %ofNet inNet Amount Revenues Amount Revenues Income Revenues, net $ 5,927,462 100 % $ 5,172,478 100 % $ 754,984 Operating   expenses: Technical and operating (excluding depreciation,   amortization and impairments shown below) 2,707,970 46 2,296,908 44 (411,062 ) Selling, general and administrative 1,480,187 25 1,291,845 25 (188,342 ) Restructuring credits (3,484 )  (537 )  2,947 Depreciation and amortization (including   impairments) 1,128,813 19 1,083,643 21 (45,170 ) Operating income 613,976 10 500,619 10 113,357 Other income   (expense): Interest expense, net (891,015 ) (15 ) (748,078 ) (14 ) (142,937 ) Equity in net income of affiliates 6,698  3,219  3,479 Gain on sale of programming and affiliate interests,   net   64,968 1 (64,968 ) Gain (loss) on investments, net 290,052 5 (138,312 ) (3 ) 428,364 Write-off of deferred financing costs (14,083 )    (14,083 ) Gain (loss) on derivative contracts, net (253,712 ) (4 ) 119,180 2 (372,892 ) Loss on extinguishment of debt (13,125 )    (13,125 ) Minority interests (8,894 )  (5,471 )  (3,423 ) Miscellaneous, net 2,837  651  2,186 Loss from   continuing operations before taxes (267,266 ) (5 ) (203,224 ) (4 ) (64,042 ) Income tax   benefit 134,217 2 75,691 1 58,526 Loss from continuing   operations (133,049 ) (2 ) (127,533 ) (2 ) (5,516 ) Income from   discontinued operations, net of taxes 7,446  216,853 4 (209,407 ) Income (loss)   before cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle (125,603 ) (2 ) 89,320 2 (214,923 ) Cumulative   effect of a change in accounting principle, net of taxes (862 )    (862 ) Net income (loss) $ (126,465 ) (2 )% $ 89,320 2 % $ (215,785 ) 54 YearsEndedDecember31, Increase 2005 2004 (Decrease) %ofNet %ofNet inNet Amount Revenues Amount Revenues Income Revenues, net $ 5,172,478 100 % $ 4,632,537 100 % $ 539,941 Operating   expenses: Technical and operating (excluding depreciation,   amortization and impairments shown below) 2,296,908 44 2,191,247 47 (105,661 ) Selling, general and administrative 1,291,845 25 1,184,682 26 (107,163 ) Other operating income, net   (95,758 ) (2 ) (95,758 ) Restructuring credits (537 )  (835 )  (298 ) Depreciation and amortization (including   impairments) 1,083,643 21 1,138,675 25 55,032 Operating income 500,619 10 214,526 5 286,093 Other income   (expense): Interest expense, net (748,078 ) (14 ) (712,708 ) (15 ) (35,370 ) Equity in net income (loss) of affiliates 3,219  (12,997 )  16,216 Gain on sale of programming and affiliate interests,   net 64,968 1 2,232  62,736 Gain (loss) on investments, net (138,312 ) (3 ) 134,598 3 (272,910 ) Write-off of deferred financing costs   (18,961 )  18,961 Gain (loss) on derivative contracts, net 119,180 2 (165,305 ) (4 ) 284,485 Loss on extinguishment of debt   (78,571 ) (2 ) 78,571 Minority interests (5,471 )  (50,307 ) (1 ) 44,836 Miscellaneous, net 651  63  588 Loss from   continuing operations before taxes (203,224 ) (4 ) (687,430 ) (15 ) 484,206 Income tax   benefit 75,691 1 201,397 4 (125,706 ) Loss from   continuing operations (127,533 ) (2 ) (486,033 ) (10 ) 358,500 Income (loss) from   discontinued operations, net of taxes 216,853 4 (185,476 ) (4 ) 402,329 Income (loss)   before extraordinary item 89,320 2 (671,509 ) (14 ) 760,829 Extraordinary   loss on investment, net of taxes   (7,436 )  7,436 Net income (loss) $ 89,320 2 % $ (678,945 ) (15 )% $ 768,265 55 Comparison of Consolidated Year Ended December 31, 2006 Versus Year Ended December31, 2005 Consolidated Results  Cablevision Systems Corporation The Company classifies its business interests into three reportable segments:  Telecommunications Services, consisting principally of our video, high-speed data, and Voice over Internet Protocol services and our commercial data and voice services operations of Lightpath;  Rainbow, consisting principally of interests in national and regional cable television programming networks, including AMC, IFC, WEtv (formerly WE:Womens Entertainment), fuse and VOOM HD Networks; and  Madison Square Garden, which owns and operates professional sports teams, regional cable television sports programming networks and an entertainment business.
The Company allocates certain costs to each segment based upon their proportionate estimated usage of services. The segment financial information set forth below, including the discussion related to individual line items, does not reflect intersegment eliminations unless specifically indicated.
See Business Segments Results for a more detailed discussion relating to the operating results of our segments.
Revenues, net for the year ended December31, 2006 increased $754,984 (15%) as compared to revenues for the prior year. The net increase is attributable to the following: Increase in revenues of   the Telecommunication Services segment $ 630,942 Increase in revenues of   the Rainbow segment 60,425 Increase in revenues of   the Madison Square Garden segment 49,645 Other net decreases (994 ) Intersegment eliminations 14,966 $ 754,984 Technical and operating expenses (excluding depreciation, amortization and impairments) include primarily:  cable programming costs which are costs paid to programmers, net of amortization of any launch support received, for cable content and are generally paid on a per-subscriber basis;  network management and field service costs which represent costs associated with the maintenance of our broadband network, including costs of certain customer connections;  contractual rights payments to broadcast certain live sporting events and contractual payments pursuant to employment agreements with professional sports teams personnel;  amortization of costs to license programming, including feature films, and programming and production costs of our Rainbow businesses; and  interconnection, call completion and circuit fees relating to our telephone and VoIP businesses which represent the transport and termination of calls with other telecommunications carriers.
56 Technical and operating expenses (excluding depreciation and amortization and impairments) in 2006 increased $411,062 (18%) as compared to 2005. The net increase is attributable to the following: Increase in   expenses of the Telecommunications Services segment $ 269,941 Increase in   expenses of the Rainbow segment 37,128 Increase in   expenses of the Madison Square Garden segment 87,793 Other net   increases 596 Intersegment   eliminations 15,604 $ 411,062 As a percentage of revenues, technical and operating expenses increased 2% during 2006 as compared to 2005. This increased percentage is primarily attributable to increases in technical and operating expenses of the Madison Square Garden segment and to a lesser extent the Rainbow segment.
Selling, general and administrative expenses include primarily sales, marketing and advertising expenses, administrative costs, and costs of customer call centers. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $188,342 (15%) for 2006 as compared to 2005. The net increase is attributable to the following: Increase in   expenses of the Telecommunications Services segment $ 129,474 Increase in   expenses of the Rainbow segment 39,851 Increase in   expenses of the Madison Square Garden segment 20,292 Other net decreases (578 ) Intersegment   eliminations (697 ) $ 188,342 On January1, 2006, the Company adopted SFAS No.123R, Share-Based Payment (Statement No.123R). Statement No.123R eliminates the ability to account for share-based compensation transactions, as the Company formerly did, using the intrinsic value method as prescribed by Accounting Principles Board (APB) Opinion No.25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees, and generally requires that share-based payments be accounted for using a fair-value-based method. As a result of the adoption of Statement No.123R, the Companys stock plan expense for 2006 for all segments has increased as compared to 2005.
As a percentage of revenues, selling, general and administrative expenses remained constant in 2006 compared to 2005.
Restructuring credits amounted to $3,484 in 2006 and $537 in 2005. The 2006 amount related primarily to adjustments to facility realignment provisions recorded in connection with the 2001 and 2002 restructuring plans of $3,996, partially offset by a charge of $512 relating to facility realignment and severance costs associated with the 2006 restructuring plans. The 2005 amount is comprised of a $2,060 credit resulting from changes in estimates of facility realignment costs relating to the 2001 and 2002 restructuring plans, partially offset by $1,025 of severance costs in 2005 and $498 of additional provisions for severance costs associated with the 2004 and 2003 restructuring plans.
Depreciation and amortization (including impairments) increased $45,170 (4%) for 2006 as compared to 2005. The net increase consisted of an increase in depreciation expense of $53,571 primarily from depreciation of new fixed assets in our telecommunication services segment, partially offset by a decrease in amortization expense of $8,401 primarily resulting from an impairment of certain intangibles recorded in 2005 attributable to the shutdown of two of three MetroChannels and a net decrease of $741 relating to the impairment of certain long-lived assets within our theater operations.
57 Net interest expense increased $142,937 (19%) during 2006 compared to 2005. The net increase is attributable to the following: Increase due to   higher average debt balances related primarily to the financing of the special   dividend on March29, 2006, partially offset by lower outstanding   collateralized indebtedness and the redemption of certain senior subordinated   debentures $ 118,328 Increase due to   higher average interest rates 48,990 Higher interest   income (20,757 ) Other net   decreases (3,624 ) $ 142,937 Equity in net income of affiliates amounted to $6,698 in 2006 compared to $3,219 in 2005. Such amounts consist of the Companys share of the net income or loss of certain businesses in which the Company does not have a majority ownership interest.
Gain on sale of affiliate interests of $64,968 for the year ended December31, 2005 resulted primarily from the Company and News Corporation restructuring their ownership of National Sports Partners and National Advertising Partners.
Gain (loss) on investments, net for the years ended December31, 2006 and 2005 of $290,052 and $(138,312) respectively, consists primarily of the net increase or decrease in the fair value of Comcast, General Electric, AT&T, Charter Communications, Leapfrog, and Adelphia Communications common stock owned by the Company. The effects of these gains and losses are largely offset by the losses and gains on related derivative contracts described below.
Write-off of deferred financing costs for the year ended December31, 2006 of $14,083 includes $6,084 of costs written off in connection with the refinancing of the Rainbow National Services LLC credit agreement in July 2006, $3,412 of costs written off in connection with the early redemption of CSC Holdings $250,000 principal amount of 10-1/2% Senior Subordinated Debentures due 2016 in May 2006, and $4,587 of costs written off in connection with the refinancing of the CSC Holdings credit agreement.
Gain (loss) on derivative contracts, net for the years ended December31, 2006 and 2005 consisted of the following: YearsEndedDecember31, 2006 2005 Unrealized and   realized gain (loss) due to the change in fair value of the Companys prepaid   forward contracts relating to the AT&T, Comcast, Charter Communications,   General Electric, Leapfrog and Adelphia Communications shares $ (214,352 ) $ 135,677 Unrealized and   realized losses on interest rate swap contracts (39,360 ) (16,497 ) $ (253,712 ) $ 119,180 The effects of these gains and losses are largely offset by the losses and gains on investment securities pledged as collateral which are included in gain (loss) on investments, net discussed above.
Loss on extinguishment of debt of $13,125 for the year ended December 31, 2006 represents the premium paid on the early redemption of CSC Holdings $250,000 principal amount of 10-1/2% Senior Subordinated Debentures due 2016 in May 2006.
58 Minority interests represent other parties share of the net income (losses) of entities which are not entirely owned by us but which are consolidated in our financial statements. For the years ended December31, 2006 and 2005 minority interests consisted of the following: YearsEndedDecember31, 2006 2005 News   Corporations 40% share of the net income of Fox Sports Net Bay Area $ (7,228 ) $ (6,896 ) News   Corporations 40% share of the net loss of Regional Programming Partners  2,123 Other (1,666 ) (698 ) $ (8,894 ) $ (5,471 ) Net miscellaneous income of $2,837 and $651 for the years ended December31, 2006 and 2005, respectively, resulted primarily from dividends received on certain of the Companys investment securities, partially offset by other miscellaneous expenses.
Income tax benefit attributable to continuing operations of $134,217 for the year ended December31, 2006 resulted primarily from the Companys pretax loss, state income tax benefit of $24,315, increased by a $10,404 decrease in the valuation allowance relating to certain state net operating loss carry forwards, a tax benefit of $16,356 resulting from the reduction in a tax contingency liability pursuant to a change in judgment, a tax benefit of $5,013 resulting from the favorable settlement of an issue with a taxing authority, partially offset by the impact of non-deductible officers compensation of $4,443 and other non-deducible expenses of $6,768.
Income tax benefit attributable to continuing operations of $75,691 for the year ended December31, 2005 resulted primarily from the pretax loss, state income tax benefit of $12,211, increased by a tax benefit of $6,701 resulting from an adjustment to a state tax rate, partially offset by an increase in the valuation allowance of $6,459 relating to certain state net operating loss carry forwards and the impact of non-deductible officers compensation of $6,226 and other non-deducible expenses of $10,637.
The Company is currently being audited by the state of Ohio for the tax year ended December31, 2000. The primary audit issue is the amount of gain that should be subject to tax in Ohio pursuant to the 2000 sale of certain cable television systems. Ohio has asserted that more of the gain should be taxed in Ohio. Ohio has issued a proposed assessment of additional tax due of approximately $55,000 plus interest of approximately $12,000. As of December31, 2006, the Company has recorded a liability with respect to such matter of approximately $11,000, including interest, which represents managements current estimate of the additional amount that may be owed.
Income (loss) from discontinued operations In April 2005, the operations of the Rainbow DBS satellite distribution business were shut down. In connection with the shut down, certain assets of the business, including the Rainbow1 direct broadcast satellite and certain other related assets were sold to a subsidiary of EchoStar for $200,000 in cash. This transaction closed in November 2005.
In September 2005, Loral Space & Communications Holding Corporation (Loral) filed an action against Cablevision and Rainbow DBS Holdings, Inc. (Rainbow DBS) for breach of contract based on a letter agreement dated March23, 2001 (the Letter Agreement) between Loral and Rainbow DBS. Loral alleges that the sale of the Rainbow-1 satellite and related assets to EchoStar constituted a sale of substantially all of the assets of Rainbow DBS triggering a Make Whole Payment under the Letter Agreement of $33,000 plus interest. A trial in this matter took place in January 2007 in New York Supreme Court for New York County. On January24, 2007, the jury returned a verdict finding that the EchoStar sale had triggered a Make Whole Payment under the Letter 59 Agreement, requiring a payment to Loral of $50,898, including interest, which has been accrued for as of December31, 2006 and reflected as an expense in discontinued operations. Cablevision and Rainbow DBS have filed a motion for judgment as a matter of law, or in the alternative for a new trial, which is pending.
In April 2005, the Company and News Corporation restructured Regional Programming Partners. As a result, the Company now owns 100% of Madison Square Garden, 50% of Fox Sports Net New England and continues to own 60% of Fox Sports Net Bay Area and no longer owns interests in Fox Sports Net Ohio, Fox Sports Net Florida, National Sports Partners or National Advertising Partners. The Company also owned 100% of Fox Sports Net Chicago which was shut down in June 2006.
The operating results of the Fox Sports Net Chicago, Fox Sports Net Ohio and Fox Sports Net Florida businesses and those of the Rainbow DBS distribution business, which was shut down in April 2005, have been reported in discontinued operations in the Companys consolidated statements of operations for all periods presented.
Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of taxes for the years ended December31, 2006 and 2005 reflects the following items, net of related income taxes and minority interests: Years Ended December 31, 2006 2005 Net operating results of the Rainbow DBS distribution business,   including shutdown costs, net of taxes* $(33,472 ) $(60,832 ) Net operating results of Fox Sports Net Ohio and Fox Sports Net   Florida, net of taxes  6,652 Gain on sale of Fox Sports Net Ohio and Fox Sports Net Florida, net of   taxes  266,810 Net operating results of Fox Sports Net Chicago, net of taxes** 40,955 1,620 Other, net of taxes (37 ) 2,603 $7,446 $216,853 * The 2006 amount includes $30,025, net of taxes, representing the Make Whole Payment due to Loral. See Note 18 to the consolidated financial statements.
** The 2006 amount includes approximately $46,100, net of taxes, representing the collection in June 2006 of affiliate revenue from a cable affiliate, including approximately $42,200, net of taxes, relating to periods prior to 2006, that had not been previously recognized due to a contractual dispute. The underlying contract was terminated in June 2006 and no further payments will be received under this contract.
60 Business Segments Results  Cablevision Systems Corporation Telecommunications Services The table below sets forth, for the periods presented, certain historical financial information and the percentage that those items bear to revenue for the Companys Telecommunications Services segment: YearsEndedDecember31, Increase 2006 2005 (Decrease)in Amount %ofNet Revenues Amount %ofNet Revenues Operating Income Revenues, net $ 4,237,707 100 % $ 3,606,765 100 % $ 630,942 Technical and operating   expenses (excluding depreciation and amortization) 1,774,607 42 1,504,666 42 (269,941 ) Selling, general and   administrative expenses 834,031 20 704,557 20 (129,474 ) Restructuring charges   (credits) (17 )  295  312 Depreciation and   amortization 915,724 22 843,177 23 (72,547 ) Operating income $ 713,362 17 % $ 554,070 15 % $ 159,292 Revenues, net for the year ended December31, 2006 increased $630,942 (17%) as compared to revenues for the prior year. The following table presents the increases by major components of revenues for the years ended December31, 2006 and 2005 for the Companys Telecommunications Services segment: AsofDecember31, Percent 2006 2005 Increase Increase Video (including   analog, digital, pay-per-view, video-on-demand and digital video recorder) $ 2,576,598 $ 2,309,293 $ 267,305 12 % High-speed data 900,024 761,775 138,249 18 % Voice 369,793 171,701 198,092 115 % Advertising 119,239 110,033 9,206 8 % Other (including   installation, home shopping, advertising sales commissions, and other   products) 109,781 98,093 11,688 12 % Total cable   television 4,075,435 3,450,895 624,540 18 % Optimum Lightpath 210,594 195,486 15,108 8 % Intra-segment   eliminations (48,322 ) (39,616 ) (8,706 ) (22 )% Total   Telecommunications Services $ 4,237,707 $ 3,606,765 $ 630,942 17 % Revenue increases reflected above are primarily derived from increases in the number of subscribers to these services (set forth in the table below), upgrades by video customers from the level of the programming package to which they subscribe, additional services sold to our existing subscribers and general increases in rates, offset in part by offer discounts and other rate changes. As a result, our average monthly revenue per basic video subscriber for the fourth quarter of December 2006 was $115.30 as compared with $100.46 for the fourth quarter of December 2005. The increase in Optimum Lightpath net revenues is primarily attributable to growth in Ethernet data services and Optimum Voice call completion activity, partially offset by a decline in traditional circuit switched services. The following table presents certain subscriber information for the years ended December31, 2006 and 2005 for the Companys cable television systems (excluding Lightpath): 61 As of December 31, Increase Percent Increase 2006 2005 (Decrease) (Decrease) Basic video customers 3,127,000 3,027,000 100,000 3 % iO digital video customers 2,447,000 1,963,000 484,000 25 % Optimum Online high-speed data customers 2,039,000 1,694,000 345,000 20 % Optimum voice customers 1,209,000 731,000 478,000 65 % Residential telephone customers 5,000 8,000 (3,000 ) (33 )% Total revenue generating units 8,827,000 7,423,000 1,404,000 19 % The Company added basic video customers and revenue generating units ("RGUs") in each quarter of 2006 aggregating approximately 100,000 and 1,404,000, respectively, for the year. However, fewer basic video customers and RGUs were added during the fourth quarter of 2006 as compared to the fourth quarter of 2005. Because of our relatively high digital video penetration rates and, to a lesser extent, the increasing competition in our service territory, we expect our basic video customer and RGU growth in 2007 to be lower than what we experienced in 2006.
Technical and operating expenses (excluding depreciation and amortization) for 2006 increased $269,941 (18%) compared to 2005. The net increase is attributable to the following: Increase in   programming costs (including costs of on-demand services) due primarily to   subscriber growth, expanded service offerings, and programming rate increases $ 164,162 Increase in   field service and network related costs primarily due to growth in revenue   generating units 57,205 Increase in call   completion and interconnection costs related to the VoIP business due   primarily to subscriber growth and the costs of our flat-rate international   service offering beginning in the second quarter of 2006 48,996 Resolution of a   contractual programming dispute* (26,476 ) Increase in VoIP   related taxes and surcharges due primarily to subscriber growth, partially   offset by favorable tax settlements 12,033 Other net   increases 23,915 Intra-segment   eliminations (9,894 ) $ 269,941 * Represents the collection of $26,500in June 2006 related to the resolution of a contractual programming dispute, $19,476 of which was due in periods prior to 2006 but not recognized as a reduction to programming costs because it was being disputed and was not being paid by the affiliate. The underlying contract was terminated in June 2006 and no further payments will be received under the contract. Payments received under the contract are accounted for as a reduction to programming costs.
As a percentage of revenues, technical and operating expenses remained constant, during 2006 as compared to 2005.
62 Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $129,474 (18%) for 2006 as compared to 2005. The net increase is attributable to the following: Increase in   customer related costs (principally call center related costs) primarily due   to increased revenue generating units $ 42,005 Increase in   sales and marketing costs 41,666 Increase in   share-based compensation expenses (includes the effects of adopting Statement   No.123R effective January1, 2006) 24,828 Other general   and administrative cost increases 11,400 Increase in   expenses relating to a long-term incentive plan 8,387 Intra-segment   eliminations 1,188 $ 129,474 As a percentage of revenues, selling, general and administrative expenses remained constant in 2006 as compared to 2005.
Restructuring charges amounted to $295 in 2005. This amount is comprised primarily of $894 of severance costs associated with the 2005 restructuring plans and $263 of additional provisions for severance associated with the 2004 restructuring plans, partially offset by a credit of $896 resulting from changes in estimates of facility realignment costs relating to the 2002 restructuring plans.
Depreciation and amortization increased $72,547 (9%) for 2006 as compared to 2005. The increase resulted primarily from depreciation of new fixed assets, primarily subscriber devices.
Rainbow The table below sets forth, for the periods presented, certain historical financial information and the percentage that those items bear to revenues for the Companys Rainbow segment: Increase Years Ended December 31, (Decrease) 2006 2005 in % of Net % of Net Operating Amount Revenues Amount Revenues Income Revenues, net $885,986 100 % $825,561 100 % $60,425 Technical and operating   expenses (excluding depreciation, amortization and impairments) 382,695 43 345,567 42 (37,128 ) Selling, general and administrative expenses 367,845 42 327,994 40 (39,851 ) Restructuring charges 143    (143 ) Depreciation and amortization (including impairments) 106,556 12 113,429 14 6,873 Operating income $28,747 3 % $38,571 5 % $(9,824 ) Included in the Rainbow segments results of operations is operating income from AMC, IFC and WEtv aggregating $197,294 and $185,703, and operating losses from Rainbows other programming services aggregating $168,547 and $147,132 for the years ended December31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. These other programming services consist of Fox Sports Net Bay Area, fuse, MagRack, sportskool, News12 Networks, IFC Entertainment, VOOM HD Networks, Rainbow Network Communications, Rainbow Advertising Sales Corp. and other Rainbow ventures. The operating loss was attributable primarily to VOOM HD Networks, as well as the News12 Networks and fuse, which more than offset 63 operating income generated by Fox Sports Net Bay Area. The VOOM HD Networks business has been incurring substantial operating losses and these losses are expected to continue for at least the next several years.
Revenues, net for the year ended December31, 2006 increased $60,425(7%) as compared to revenues for the prior year. The net increase is attributable to the following: Increase in   advertising revenues at the AMC/IFC/WEtv businesses $ 34,762 Increase in   affiliate and other revenue at Rainbows other programming businesses 20,150 Increase in   advertising revenues at Rainbows other programming businesses 13,689 Increase in   affiliate and other revenue at the AMC/IFC/WEtv businesses resulting   from increases in programming network subscribers and rate changes.
9,809 Decrease   attributable to the MetroChannel business which shut down two of its three   channels in the second quarter of 2005 (17,985 ) $ 60,425 Advertising revenue as a percentage of total revenue increased in 2006 as compared to 2005 and we expect this trend to continue.
Revenue increases discussed above are primarily derived from increases in the level of advertising on our networks, increases in the number of subscribers to our programming services, and increases in fees charged for our services. The following table presents certain viewing subscriber information for the years ended December31, 2006 and 2005: As of December 31, Percent 2006 2005 Increase Increase (in thousands) Viewing Subscribers: AMC 81,100 77,200 3,900 5.1 % WE tv 52,700 50,900 1,800 3.5 % IFC 40,100 37,300 2,800 7.5 % fuse 42,000 35,500 6,500 18.3 % VOOM HD Networks 300 25 275  Fox Sports Net Bay Area 3,700 3,600 100 2.8 % Technical and operating expenses (excluding depreciation and amortization and impairments) for the year ended December31, 2006 increased $37,128(11%) compared to 2005. The net increase is attributable to the following: Net increase   resulting from higher programming and contractual costs at the other Rainbow   businesses, including the VOOM HD Networks $ 31,861 Net increase in   programming costs at the AMC/IFC/WEtv businesses which resulted   primarily from increased series development/original programming costs 9,240 Decrease   resulting from the MetroChannel business, which shut down two of its three   channels in the second quarter of 2005 (3,973 ) $ 37,128 As a percentage of revenues, technical and operating increased 1% during 2006 as compared to 2005 resulting primarily from higher programming costs associated with the VOOM HD Networks.
64 Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $39,851(12%) for 2006 compared to 2005. The net increase is attributable to the following: Increase in share-based   compensation expenses (includes the effects of adopting Statement   No.123R effective January1, 2006) $ 19,160 Increase in   administrative costs, including corporate allocations 10,421 Increase in expenses   relating to Cablevisions long-term incentive plan 5,341 Net increase in   selling, marketing and advertising costs primarily related to marketing and   promotional activities 4,929 $ 39,851 As a percentage of revenues, selling, general and administrative expenses increased 2% in 2006 compared to 2005.
Depreciation and amortization (including impairments) decreased $6,873(6%) for 2006 as compared to 2005. The net decrease was comprised of approximately $4,963 resulting from the impairment of certain intangibles during the second quarter of 2005, a decrease of approximately $3,585 attributable to the MetroChannel business, which shut down two of its three channels in the second quarter of 2005, and a decrease of approximately $1,237due to the transfer of certain intangibles to another operating segment in the second quarter of 2005. Partially offsetting these decreases was an increase of approximately $2,912 resulting primarily from depreciation of new fixed assets.
Madison Square Garden The table below sets forth, for the periods presented, certain historical financial information and the percentage that those items bear to net revenues for Madison Square Garden.
YearsEndedDecember31 Increase 2006 2005 (Decrease)in %ofNet %ofNet Operating Amount Revenues Amount Revenues Income Revenues, net $ 854,040 100 % $ 804,395 100 % $ 49,645 Technical and operating   expenses (excluding depreciation and amortization) 606,566 71 518,773 64 (87,793 ) Selling, general and   administrative expenses 189,310 22 169,018 21 (20,292 ) Restructuring charges   366  366 Depreciation and   amortization 60,160 7 62,834 8 2,674 Operating income (loss) $ (1,996 )  % $ 53,404 7 % $ (55,400 ) The dependence of this segments revenues on its sports teams and Christmas shows generally make it seasonal with a disproportionate share of its revenues and operating income being derived in the fourth quarter of each year.
65 Revenues, net for the year ended December31, 2006 increased $49,645 (6%) as compared to revenues for the prior year. This net increase is attributable to the following: Return of   National Hockey League games after the cancellation of 2004-2005 season $ 52,118 Higher other   team related revenues 9,368 Lower   advertising sales revenue and sublicense fees resulting from loss of Mets broadcast rights agreement (26,877 ) Retroactive MSG   Networks affiliate rate adjustments recorded in 2005* (17,834 ) Net higher other   MSG Networks affiliate fees (excluding the impact of the cancellation of the   NHL 2004-2005 season and the 2005 retroactive affiliate rate adjustments   noted above) including the impact of the loss of the Mets broadcast rights   agreement 16,541 Net higher   revenues from entertainment events 19,029 Other net   decreases (2,700 ) $ 49,645 * The retroactive MSG Networks affiliate rate adjustments discussed above resulted from the signing of certain affiliate contracts in 2005 that increased rates for periods prior to January 1, 2005. Therefore the results for the year ended December31, 2005 reflect positive retroactive rate adjustments related to the periods prior to January 1, 2005 that did not recur in 2006.
Technical and operating expenses for the year ended December31, 2006 increased $87,793 (17%) as compared to the prior year. This increase is attributable to the following: Return of   National Hockey League games after the cancellation of the 2004-2005 season $ 70,153 Lower benefit   from amortization of team related purchase accounting liabilities (see   discussion below) 23,439 Higher provision   for National Basketball Associations luxury tax, including impact of certain   team personnel transactions 21,844 Lower net   provisions for certain team personnel transactions (excluding the impact of   purchase accounting liabilities (see discussion below) and luxury tax)* (17,418 ) Higher other   team operating expenses, primarily team personnel compensation 13,828 Higher costs   associated with the higher revenues from entertainment events 10,968 Lower broadcast   rights fees other than those related to the resumption of the National Hockey   League games, primarily due to the termination of the Mets broadcast rights agreement (39,831 ) Other net   increases 4,810 $ 87,793 * The change in the provisions for certain team personnel transactions includes the settlement in 2006 of the dispute with the Knicks ex-head coach, Larry Brown, under which the Knicks agreed to pay Mr. Brown $18,500 of the disputed amount in connection with his employment agreement.
The purchase accounting liabilities discussed above were established in April 2005 as a result of the Companys acquisition of the minority interest in Madison Square Garden. Following this transaction the Company began to amortize these purchase accounting liabilities over the period of the respective player contracts. During 2006 and 2005, the majority of these players were subsequently waived or traded and the unamortized purchase accounting liabilities associated with these players were immediately written off. As a result, the amount of amortization associated with these team personnel transactions declined from $25,358 in 2005 to $3,381 in 2006.
As a percentage of revenues, technical and operating expenses increased 7% during the year ended December31, 2006 as compared to the prior year.
66 Selling, general, and administrative expenses for the year ended December 31, 2006 increased $20,292 (12%) as compared to the prior year. This increase is attributable to the following: Increase in   share-based compensation expenses (including the effects of adopting   Statement No.123R effective January 1, 2006) $ 10,396 Higher employee   salaries and related benefits due primarily to higher expenses relating to   Cablevisions long term incentive plan 6,689 Higher legal and   other professional fees 4,153 Return of   National Hockey League games after the cancellation of the 2004-2005 season 2,120 Lower charitable   contributions due primarily to contributions in 2005 related to Hurricane   Katrina relief (4,287 ) Other net   increases 1,221 $ 20,292 As a percentage of revenues, selling, general and administrative expenses increased 1% during the year ended December31, 2006 as compared to the prior year.
Restructuring charges of $366 for the year ended December31, 2005 primarily represent charges recorded as a result of the final cost determination for benefits associated with the elimination of certain staff positions.
Depreciation and amortization expense for the year ended December31, 2006 decreased $2,674 (4%) as compared to the prior year resulting primarily from lower depreciation expense due to assets which became fully depreciated. The lower depreciation expense was partly offset by higher amortization due primarily to the amortization of certain intangible assets recorded as a result of the Companys acquisition of the minority interest in Madison Square Garden in April 2005 and the transfer of certain intangibles from another operating segment in 2005. This increase in amortization expense was partly offset by a decrease in the amortization of certain other intangibles that became fully amortized in 2005.
67 Comparison of Consolidated Year Ended December 31, 2005 Versus Year Ended December31, 2004 Revenues, net for the year ended December31, 2005 increased $539,941 (12%) as compared to revenues for the prior year. The net increase is attributable to the following: Increase in   revenues of the Telecommunication Services segment $ 482,809 Increase in   revenues of the Rainbow segment 19,167 Increase in   revenues of the Madison Square Garden segment 25,641 Other net   decreases (1,380 ) Intersegment   eliminations 13,704 $ 539,941 Technical and operating expenses (excluding depreciation and amortization, and impairments) include primarily:  cable programming costs which are costs paid to programmers, net of amortization of any launch support received, for cable content and are generally paid on a per-subscriber basis;  network management and field service costs which represent costs associated with the maintenance of our broadband network, including costs of certain customer connections;  contractual rights payments to broadcast certain live sporting events and contractual payments pursuant to employment agreements with professional sports teams personnel;  amortization of costs to license programming, including feature films, and programming and production costs of our Rainbow businesses; and  interconnection, call completion and circuit fees relating to our telephone and VoIP businesses which represent the transport and termination of calls with other telecommunications carriers.
Technical and operating expenses (excluding depreciation and amortization and impairments) for 2005 increased $105,661(5%) compared to 2004. The net increase is attributable to the following: Increase in   expenses of the Telecommunications Services segment $ 228,137 Decrease in   expenses of the Rainbow segment (84,607 ) Decrease in   expenses of the Madison Square Garden segment (42,553 ) Other net   decreases (3,502 ) Intersegment   eliminations 8,186 $ 105,661 As a percentage of revenues, technical and operating expenses decreased 3% during 2005 as compared to 2004. The decrease resulted primarily from impairment charges in 2004 amounting to 2% of revenues.
68 Selling, general and administrative expenses include primarily sales, marketing and advertising expenses, administrative costs and costs of customer call centers. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $107,163(9%) for 2005 as compared to 2004. The net increase is attributable to the following: Increase in   expenses of the Telecommunications Services segment $ 67,602 Increase in   expenses of the Rainbow segment 3,976 Increase in   expenses of the Madison Square Garden segment 22,038 Other net   increases 7,970 Intersegment   eliminations 5,577 $ 107,163 As a percentage of revenues, selling, general and administrative expenses decreased 1% during 2005 compared to 2004.
Other operating income, net of $95,758for the year ended December31, 2004 includes primarily a $54,052 cash payment received in connection with the New York Mets notice of termination of the broadcast rights agreement with Madison Square Garden which was effective at the end of the 2005 baseball season and a $41,788reversal of a purchase accounting liability related to this broadcast rights agreement.
Restructuring credits amounted to $537in 2005 and $835in 2004. The 2005 amount is comprised of a $2,060 credit resulting from changes in estimates of facility realignment costs relating to the 2001 and 2002 restructuring plans, partially offset by $1,025of current severance costs in 2005 and $498 of additional provisions for severance costs associated with the 2004 and 2003 restructuring plans. The 2004 amount is comprised of a $5,761credit resulting from changes in estimates of facility realignment and other costs relating to the 2001, 2002 and 2003 restructuring plans, partially offset by $4,926of severance costs.
Depreciation and amortization (including impairments) decreased $55,032(5%) for 2005 as compared to 2004. The decrease resulted primarily from impairment charges in 2004 of $78,497relating to certain Rainbow DBS assets that were not held for sale and $12,043 related to certain assets of the VOOM HD Networks and lower write-off and disposal costs of certain fixed assets in 2005. These decreases were partially offset by an increase of $35,508 resulting primarily from depreciation of new fixed assets, impairment charges of $7,697 recorded in 2005 relating primarily to certain long-lived assets and intangibles within our theater operations and Rainbow segment and an increase in amortization expense as a result of an increase in amortizable intangibles resulting from the Regional Programming Partners transaction.
Net interest expense increased $35,370(5%) during 2005 compared to 2004. The net increase is attributable to the following: Increase due to   higher average debt balances $ 56,017 Increase due to   higher average interest rates 52,223 Decrease in   dividends on CSC Holdings Series H and Series M Redeemable Preferred Stock   due to their redemption in May 2004 (60,593 ) Higher interest   income (8,130 ) Other net   decreases (4,147 ) $ 35,370 Equity in net income of affiliates amounted to $3,219in 2005 compared to equity in net loss of affiliates of $12,997in 2004. Such amounts consist of the Companys share of the net income or loss of certain businesses in which the Company does not have majority ownership interest.
69 Gain on sale of programming and affiliate interests amounted to $64,968 for the year ended December31, 2005 compared to $2,232for the year ended December31, 2004. The 2005 gain resulted primarily from the Company and News Corporation restructuring their ownership of National Sports Partners and National Advertising Partners. The 2004 gain resulted from the sale of a minority-owned affiliate interest.
Gain (loss) on investments, net for the years ended December31, 2005 and 2004 consisted of the following: YearsEndedDecember31, 2005 2004 Increase   (decrease) in the fair value of Charter Communications, Adelphia   Communications, AT&T, AT&T Wireless (2004 period only), Comcast,   General Electric and Leapfrog common stock $ (138,459 ) $ 133,544 Income related   to other investments 147 1,054 $ (138,312 ) $ 134,598 The effects of these gains and losses are largely offset by the losses and gains on related derivative contracts described below.
Write-off of deferred financing costs of $18,961in 2004 consisted of costs written off in connection with the redemption of CSC Holdings Series H and Series M Redeemable Exchangeable Preferred Stock and CSC Holdings 9-7/8% senior subordinated debentures aggregating $5,080and termination of certain of the Companys credit agreements aggregating $13,881.
Gain (loss) on derivative contracts, net for the years ended December31, 2005 and 2004 consisted of the following: YearsEndedDecember31, 2005 2004 Unrealized and   realized gain (loss) due to the change in fair value of the Companys prepaid   forward contracts relating to the AT&T, AT&T Wireless (2004 period   only), Comcast, Charter Communications, General Electric, Leapfrog and   Adelphia Communications shares $ 135,677 $ (132,941 ) Loss on exchange   right and put option related to CSC Holdings Series A Preferred Stock  (31,709 ) Unrealized and   realized losses on interest rate swap contracts (16,497 ) (655 ) $ 119,180 $ (165,305 ) The effects of these gains and losses are largely offset by the losses and gains on investment securities pledged as collateral which are included in gain (loss) on investments, net discussed above .
Loss on extinguishment of debt of $78,571for the year ended December31, 2004 represents premiums of $58,170on the early redemption of CSC Holdings Series H and Series M Redeemable Preferred Stock, $14,325 on the early redemption of CSC Holdings 9-7/8% senior subordinated debentures, and $6,076on the termination of the AT&T Wireless stock monetization contracts.
70 Minority interests represent other parties share of the net income (losses) of entities which are not entirely owned by us but which are consolidated in our financial statements. For the years ended December31, 2005 and 2004 minority interests consisted of the following: YearsEndedDecember31, 2005 2004 News   Corporations 40% share of the net income or loss of Regional Programming   Partners $ 2,123 $ (57,218 ) News   Corporations 40% share of the net income of Fox Sports Net Bay Area (6,896 )  Minority   partners interest in DTV Norwich  7,850 Other (698 ) (939 ) $ (5,471 ) $ (50,307 ) Net miscellaneous income of $651for the year ended December31, 2005 resulted primarily from dividends received on certain of the Companys investment securities, partially offset by other miscellaneous expenses.
Income tax benefit attributable to continuing operations of $75,691 for the year ended December 31, 2005 resulted primarily from the pretax loss, state income tax benefit of $12,211, increased by a tax benefit of $6,701 resulting from an adjustment to the state tax rate, partially offset by an increase in the valuation allowance of $6,459 relating to certain state net operating loss carry forwards and the impact of non-deductible officers compensation and other non-deducible expenses of $6,226 and $10,637, respectively. Income tax benefit attributable to continuing operations of $201,397 in 2004 resulted primarily from the pretax loss, offset by an increase in the valuation allowance of $14,036, non-deductible preferred stock dividends of $21,208, a non-deductible adjustment related to the exchange right and put option related to the Series A Preferred Stock of CSC Holdings of $11,098, a non-deductible redemption premium related to the Series H and M Preferred Stock of CSC Holdings of $20,360, state income tax benefit of $25,692, a tax benefit of $21,615 resulting from an adjustment to the deferred tax rate, and the impact of non-deductible officers compensation and other non-deductible expenses of $8,303 and $4,776, respectively.
Income (loss) from discontinued operations In April 2005, the operations of the Rainbow DBS satellite distribution business were shut down. In connection with the shut down, certain assets of the business, including the Rainbow1 direct broadcast satellite and certain other related assets were sold to a subsidiary of EchoStar for $200,000 in cash. This transaction closed in November 2005.
In April 2005, the Company and News Corporation restructured Regional Programming Partners. As a result, the Company now owns 100% of Madison Square Garden, 50% of Fox Sports Net New England and continues to own 60% of Fox Sports Net Bay Area and no longer owns interests in Fox Sports Net Ohio, Fox Sports Net Florida, National Sports Partners or National Advertising Partners. The Company also owned 100% of Fox Sports Net Chicago which was shut down in June 2006.
The operating results of the Fox Sports Net Chicago (which was shut down in June 2006), Fox Sports Net Ohio and Fox Sports Net Florida businesses and those of the Rainbow DBS distribution business, which was shut down in April 2005, have been reported in discontinued operations in the Companys consolidated statements of operations for all periods presented.
71 Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of taxes for the years ended December31, 2005 and 2004 reflects the following items, net of related income taxes and minority interests: YearsEndedDecember31, 2005 2004 Net operating results of the Rainbow DBS distribution   business including shutdown costs (including impairment charges of $188,467   in 2004), net of taxes $ (60,832 ) $ (220,327 ) Net operating results of Fox Sports Net Ohio and Fox   Sports Net Florida, net of taxes 6,652 22,924 Gain on sale of   Fox Sports Net Ohio and Fox Sports Net Florida, net of taxes 266,810  Net operating   results of Fox Sports Net Chicago, net of taxes 1,620 13,581 Other, net of   taxes 2,603 (1,654 ) $ 216,853 $ (185,476 ) Extraordinary loss, net of taxes of $7,436for the year ended December31, 2004 resulted from Rainbow DBS investment in DTV Norwich, LLC and represents the excess of the purchase price over fair value of the acquired assets.
Business Segments Results  Cablevision Systems Corporation Telecommunications Services The table below sets forth, for the periods presented, certain historical financial information and the percentage that those items bear to revenue for the Companys Telecommunications Services segment: YearsEndedDecember31, Increase 2005 2004 (Decrease)in %ofNet %ofNet Operating Amount Revenues Amount Revenues Income Revenues, net $ 3,606,765 100 % $ 3,123,956 100 % $ 482,809 Technical and   operating expenses (excluding depreciation and amortization) 1,504,666 42 1,276,529 41 (228,137 ) Selling, general   and administrative expenses 704,557 20 636,955 20 (67,602 ) Restructuring   charges 295  736  441 Depreciation and   amortization 843,177 23 786,485 25 (56,692 ) Operating income $ 554,070 15 % $ 423,251 14 % $ 130,819 72 Revenues, net for the year ended December31, 2005 increased $482,809 (15%) as compared to revenues for the prior year. The following table presents the increases by major components of revenues for the years ended December31, 2005 and 2004: AsofDecember31, Percent 2005 2004 Increase Increase Video (including   analog, digital, pay-per-view, video-on-demand and digital video recorder) $ 2,309,293 $ 2,116,795 $ 192,498 9 % High-speed data 761,775 618,899 142,876 23 % Voice 171,701 56,739 114,962 203 % Advertising 110,033 106,435 3,598 3 % Other (including   installation, commissions, home shopping and other products) 98,093 81,389 16,704 20 % Total cable television 3,450,895 2,980,257 470,638 16 % Lightpath 195,486 167,660 27,826 17 % Intra-segment   eliminations (39,616 ) (23,961 ) (15,655 ) (65 )% Total   Telecommunications Services $ 3,606,765 $ 3,123,956 $ 482,809 15 % Revenue increases reflected above are primarily derived from increases in the number of subscribers to these services (set forth in the table below), upgrades by video customers in the level of the programming package to which they subscribe, additional services sold to our existing subscribers and general increases in rates, offset in part by offer discounts and other rate changes. The increase in Lightpath net revenues is attributable primarily to growth in Ethernet data services over Lightpaths fiber infrastructure and to growth in traditional data services. As a result, our average monthly revenue per basic video subscriber for the fourth quarter of December 2005 was $100.46 as compared to $88.33 for the fourth quarter of December 2004. The following table presents certain subscriber information for the years ended December31, 2005 and 2004 for the Companys cable television systems: AsofDecember31, Increase Percent Increase 2005 2004 (Decrease) (Decrease) Basic video   customers 3,027,000 2,963,000 64,000 2 % iO digital video   customers 1,963,000 1,483,000 480,000 32 % Optimum Online   high-speed data customers 1,694,000 1,353,000 341,000 25 % Optimum voice   customers 731,000 273,000 458,000 168 % Residential   telephone customers 8,000 9,000 (1,000 ) (11 )% Total revenue generating   units 7,423,000 6,081,000 1,342,000 22 % Technical and operating expenses (excluding depreciation and amortization) for 2005 increased $228,137 (18%) compared to 2004. The net increase is attributable to the following: Increase in   programming costs (including costs of on-demand services) due primarily to   subscriber growth, expanded service offerings, and programming rate increases $ 114,548 Increase in   field service and network related costs primarily due to growth in revenue   generating units 67,563 Increase in call   completion and interconnection costs related to the VoIP business due   primarily to subscriber growth 28,339 Other net   increases, including intra-segment eliminations 17,687 $ 228,137 As a percentage of revenues, technical and operating expenses increased 1% during 2005 as compared to 2004.
73 Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $67,602 (11%) for 2005 as compared to 2004. The net increase is attributable to the following: Increase in sales and   marketing costs $ 33,468 Increase in customer   related costs primarily due to increased revenue generating units 31,910 Decrease in stock plan   expenses (includes the effects of changes in stock price, the vesting of   restricted shares and employee separations) (1,661 ) Increase in expenses   relating to a long-term incentive plan 4,800 Other net decreases,   including intra-segment eliminations (915 ) $ 67,602 As a percentage of revenues, selling, general and administrative expenses remained constant in 2005 as compared to 2004.
Restructuring charges amounted to $295 in 2005 and $736 in 2004. The 2005 amount is comprised of $894of current severance costs and $297 of additional provisions for severance associated with the 2004 restructuring plans, partially offset by a $896 credit resulting from changes in estimates of facility realignment costs relating to the 2002 restructuring plans. The 2004 amount is comprised of $882 of new provisions associated with the elimination of positions, including severance and outplacement costs, partially offset by a credit of $146 in facility realignment costs relating to the 2001 and 2002 restructuring.
Depreciation and amortization increased $56,692 (7%) for 2005 as compared to 2004. The increase resulted primarily from depreciation of new fixed assets, primarily subscriber devices and increases in amortization expense relating to other amortizable intangibles.
Rainbow The table below sets forth, for the periods presented, certain historical financial information and the percentage that those items bear to revenues for the Companys Rainbow segment: Years Ended December 31, Increase 2005 2004 (Decrease)in %ofNet %ofNet Operating Amount Revenues Amount Revenues Income Revenues, net $ 825,561 100 % $ 806,394 100 % $ 19,167 Technical and   operating expenses (excluding depreciation, amortization and impairments) 345,567 42 430,174 53 84,607 Selling, general   and administrative expenses 327,994 40 324,018 40 (3,976 ) Restructuring   credits   (77 )  (77 ) Depreciation and   amortization (including impairments) 113,429 14 213,896 27 100,467 Operating income   (loss) $ 38,571 5 % $ (161,617 ) (20 )% $ 200,188 Included in the Rainbow segments results of operations is operating income from AMC, IFC and WE tv aggregating $185,703 and $159,815 and operating losses from Rainbows other programming services aggregating $147,132 and $321,432 for the years ended December31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. These other programming services consist of Fox Sports Net Bay Area, fuse, MagRack, sportskool, 74 News12 Networks, IFC Entertainment, VOOM HD Networks, Rainbow Network Communications, Rainbow Advertising Sales Corp. and other Rainbow ventures. The operating loss was attributable primarily to the VOOM HD Networks, as well as the News12 Networks and fuse which more than offset operating income generated by Fox Sports Net Bay Area. The 2004 operating loss included impairment charges relating to the VOOM HD Networks and certain Rainbow DBS assets that were not held for sale.
Revenues, net for the year ended December31, 2005 increased $19,167(2%) as compared to revenues for the prior year. The net increase is attributable to the following: Increase in   advertising revenues at the AMC/IFC/WEtv and fuse businesses $ 39,552 Increase in   affiliate revenue, partially offset by a decrease in other revenue 2,049 Decrease   attributable to the MetroChannel business which shut down two of its three   channels in the second quarter of 2005 (22,434 ) $ 19,167 Revenue increases discussed above are primarily derived from increases in the level of advertising on our networks, increases in the number of subscribers to our programming services, and increases in fees charged for our services. The following table presents certain viewing subscriber information for the years ended December31, 2005 and 2004: AsofDecember31, Percent 2005 2004 Increase Increase (inthousands) Viewing   Subscribers: AMC 77,200 76,100 1,100 1.4 % WE tv 50,900 49,900 1,000 2.0 % IFC 37,300 34,600 2,700 7.8 % fuse 35,500 33,100 2,400 7.3 % VOOM HD 25  25  Fox Sports Net Bay Area 3,600 3,600   Technical and operating expenses (excluding depreciation and amortization and impairments) for the year ended December31, 2005 decreased $84,607 (20%) compared to 2004. The net decrease is attributable to the following: Net decrease   resulting from lower programming and contractual costs for the VOOM HD   Networks (including an impairment charge of $75,805 recorded in 2004) $ (107,068 ) Net increase   resulting from higher programming and contractual costs at other Rainbow   businesses 22,461 $ (84,607 ) As a percentage of revenues, technical and operating expenses decreased 11% during 2005 as compared 2004. The decrease resulted primarily from impairment charges in 2004 amounting to approximately 9% of revenues.
75 Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $3,976 (1%) for 2005 compared to 2004. The net increase is attributable to the following: Increase in   expenses relating to a long-term incentive plan $ 9,392 Increase in   selling, marketing and advertising costs 3,578 Decrease in   administrative costs across all other Rainbow businesses, including a   decrease in costs relating to the investigation into improper expense   recognition (7,857 ) Decrease in   share-based compensation expenses (1,137 ) $ 3,976 As a percentage of revenues, selling, general and administrative expenses remained constant in 2005 compared to 2004.
Depreciation and amortization (including impairments) decreased $100,467(47%) for 2005 as compared to 2004. The decrease resulted primarily from impairment charges in 2004 of $78,497relating to certain Rainbow DBS assets that were not held for sale and $12,043 related to certain assets of the VOOM HD Networks. A decrease of approximately $11,970 resulted primarily from certain intangibles becoming fully amortized in 2004 and a decrease of $3,720resulted from certain fixed assets becoming fully depreciated. These decreases were partially offset by increases of $4,963resulting from the impairment in 2005 of certain intangibles and $800 from the impairment of fixed assets.
Madison Square Garden The table below sets forth, for the periods presented, certain historical financial information and the percentage that those items bear to net revenues for Madison Square Garden: YearsEndedDecember31, Increase 2005 2004 (Decrease)in %ofNet %ofNet Operating Amount Revenues Amount Revenues Income Revenues, net $ 804,395 100 % $ 778,754 100 % $ 25,641 Technical and   operating expenses (excluding depreciation and amortization) 518,773 64 561,326 72 42,553 Selling, general   and administrative expenses 169,018 21 146,980 19 (22,038 ) Other operating   income   (95,840 ) (12 ) (95,840 ) Restructuring   charges 366  4,146  3,780 Depreciation and   amortization 62,834 8 45,445 6 (17,389 ) Operating income $ 53,404 7 % $ 116,697 15 % $ (63,293 ) 76 Revenues, net for the year ended December31, 2005 increased $25,641(3%) as compared to revenues for the prior year. This net increase is attributable to the following: Net impact of National   Hockey League cancellation of 2004-2005 season $ (11,604 ) Absence of National   Basketball Association expansion revenue received in 2004 (10,345 ) Absence of Knicks   playoff related revenue (6,192 ) Lower revenues from Christmas Spectacular , including touring shows (6,986 ) Other net decreases (2,879 ) Higher MSG Networks   revenues due to: Retroactive   increase in affiliate rates recorded in 2005 that related to periods prior to   January1, 2005 17,834 Other MSG   Networks revenues, (excluding the impact of the cancellation of the NHL   2004-2005 season and the Knicks playoffs reflected above) primarily from net   affiliate rate adjustments related to the year ended December31, 2005 35,101 Net higher revenues   from other events at Madison Square Garden and Radio City Music Hall 5,709 Higher Knicks related   regular season revenues 5,003 $ 25,641 Technical and operating expenses (excluding depreciation and amortization) for the year ended December31, 2005 decreased $42,553 (8%) as compared to the prior year. This net decrease is attributable to the following: Net impact of National   Hockey League cancellation of 2004-2005 season $ (37,078 ) Amortization of certain   purchase accounting liabilities (32,173 ) Higher net provisions   for certain team personnel transactions (excluding the impact of purchase   accounting liabilities and luxury tax) 25,032 Higher net provision   for luxury tax, including the impact of certain team personnel transactions 2,908 Other net decreases (1,242 ) $ (42,553 ) The purchase accounting liabilities discussed above were established in April 2005 as a result of the Companys acquisition of the minority interest in Madison Square Garden. Following this transaction the Company began to amortize these purchase accounting liabilities over the period of the respective player contracts. Some of these players were subsequently waived or traded before December31, 2005 resulting in the complete amortization of the associated purchase accounting liabilities. The higher net luxury tax provision of $2,908 resulted primarily from luxury tax associated with a player who was waived prior to the new NBA Collective Bargaining Agreement and whose contractual obligations are now subject to luxury tax. This was substantially offset by lower luxury tax for the current calendar years portion of the tax for the 2005-2006 season as compared to the prior years portion of the 2003-2004 season. There was no luxury tax attributable to the 2004-2005 season.
Selling, general, and administrative expenses for the year ended December31, 2005 increased $22,038 (15%) as compared to the prior year primarily driven by an increase in expenses related to employee salaries and related benefits, including stock and long-term incentive plans, higher professional fees and other costs relating primarily to the Companys efforts to acquire the development rights over the New York Metropolitan Transportation Authoritys Hudson Rail Yards, and higher charitable contributions.
Other operating income of $95,840in 2004 results from the notice of termination of Madison Square Gardens broadcast rights agreement with the New York Mets. In the second quarter of 2004, the New York Mets gave notice of termination of their rights agreement with Madison Square Garden, and with the notice paid Madison Square Garden a contractually obligated termination fee of $54,052. The termination of the rights agreement was effective at the end of the 2005 baseball season. In addition, Madison Square Garden recorded a $41,788credit reflecting the reversal of a purchase accounting liability related to this rights agreement.
77 Restructuring charges of $366in 2005 primarily represent charges recorded as a result of the final cost determination for benefits associated with the elimination of certain staff positions. Restructuring charges of $4,146for 2004 primarily represent severance costs associated with the elimination of certain staff positions in 2004.
Depreciation and amortization for the year ended December31, 2005 increased $17,389(38%), as compared to the prior year. An increase of $10,668resulted from higher amortization of intangibles primarily due to certain intangible assets recorded as a result of the Companys acquisition of the minority interest in Madison Square Garden. An increase of $6,721 resulted from higher depreciation expense primarily due to the acceleration of depreciation of certain Madison Square Garden Arena assets due to its planned renovation.
CSC HOLDINGS, INC.
The statement of operations results of CSC Holdings are identical to the statement of operations results of Cablevision, except for the following:  Interest expense of $132,784, $124,498 and $85,048 for the years ended December31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively, relating to $1,500,000 of Cablevision senior notes issued in April 2004 included in Cablevisions consolidated statements of operations,  Interest income of $3,958 and $89 for the years ended December31, 2006 and 2005, respectively, related to cash held at Cablevision,  Miscellaneous expenses of $177 included in Cablevisions consolidated statement of operations for the year ended December31, 2005, and  Income tax benefit of $52,831, $50,993 and $35,125 for the years ended December31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively, included in Cablevisions consolidated statements of operations related to the items listed above.
Refer to Cablevisions Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations herein.
LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Overview Cablevision has no operations independent of its subsidiaries. Cablevisions outstanding securities consist of Cablevision NY Group ClassA and Cablevision NY Group ClassB common stock and $1,500,000 of debt securities. Funding for the debt service requirements of our debt securities is provided by our subsidiaries operations, principally CSC Holdings, as permitted by the covenants governing CSC Holdings credit agreements and public debt securities. Funding for our subsidiaries is generally provided by cash flow from operations, cash on hand, and borrowings under bank credit facilities made available to the Restricted Group (as later defined) and to Rainbow National Services LLC (RNS) and the proceeds from the issuance of notes and debentures in the capital markets. The Company has accessed the debt markets for significant amounts of capital in the past and may do so in the future. For the year ended December31, 2006, Cablevision had cash flow from operating activities in excess of capital expenditures.
78 The following table summarizes our outstanding debt and present value of capital leases as well as interest expense and capital expenditures as of and for the year ended December31, 2006: Cablevision Restricted Group Rainbow National Services Other Entities Total Bank debt $  $ 4,482,500 $ 510,000 $  $ 4,992,500 Capital leases  256 11,507 49,695 61,458 Notes payable  18,843   18,843 Senior notes and   debentures 1,500,000 4,195,480 298,476  5,993,956 Senior   subordinated debentures   497,011  497,011 Collateralized   indebtedness relating to stock monetizations    921,574 921,574 Total debt $ 1,500,000 $ 8,697,079 $ 1,316,994 $ 971,269 $ 12,485,342 Interest expense $ 132,784 $ 615,460 $ 125,195 $ 54,763 $ 928,202 Capital expenditures $  $ 819,043 $ 5,219 $ 62,035 $ 886,297 Total amounts payable by the Company and its subsidiaries in connection with its outstanding obligations during the five years subsequent to December31, 2006 and thereafter, including capital leases and related interest, the value deliverable at maturity under monetization contracts and the $4,992,500 of outstanding bank debt as of December31, 2006 are as follows: Cablevision Restricted Group Rainbow National Services Other Entities Total 2007 $  $ 611,832 $ 1,676 $ 111,326 * $ 724,834 2008  586,017 26,536 258,972 * 871,525 2009 500,000 1,185,000 26,536 670,455 * 2,381,991 2010  285,000 26,536 3,000 314,536 2011  1,435,000 51,536 3,000 1,489,536 Thereafter 1,000,000 4,598,750 1,196,648  6,795,398 Total $ 1,500,000 $ 8,701,599 $ 1,329,468 $ 1,046,753 $ 12,577,820 * Cablevision has the option, at maturity, to deliver the shares of common stock underlying the monetization contracts along with proceeds from the related derivative contracts in full satisfaction of the maturing collateralized indebtedness or obtain the required cash equivalent of the common stock through new monetization and derivative contracts. The amounts included in the table are $102,469 in 2007, $222,624 in 2008 and $667,455 in 2009.
Restricted Group As of December31, 2006, CSC Holdings and those of its subsidiaries which conduct our cable television video operations (including approximately 3.1million basic video customers and 2.4million digital video customers) and high-speed data service (which encompasses approximately 2.0million customers) and our residential voice services operations (which encompasses approximately 1.2million customers), as well as Optimum Lightpath, our commercial data and voice service business comprise the Restricted Group since they are subject to the covenants and restrictions of the credit facility and the indentures governing the notes and debentures securities issued by CSC Holdings. In addition, the Restricted Group is also subject to the covenants of the debt issued by Cablevision.
Sources of cash for the Restricted Group include primarily cash flow from the operations of the businesses in the Restricted Group, borrowings under its bank credit agreement and issuance of notes and 79 debentures in the capital markets and, from time to time, distributions or loans from its subsidiaries. The Restricted Groups principal uses of cash (excluding the cash used to pay the special dividend discussed below) include capital spending, in particular the capital requirements associated with the growth of its services such as digital video, high-speed data and voice; debt service, including distributions made to Cablevision to service interest expense on its debt securities; other corporate expenses and changes in working capital; and investments that it may fund from time to time. We currently expect that the net funding and investment requirements of the Restricted Group will be met with cash generated by its operating activities and borrowings under the Restricted Groups bank credit facility and that the Restricted Groups available borrowing capacity under that facility will be sufficient to meet these requirements for the next 12 months.
On February24, 2006, the Restricted Group entered into a $2,400,000 credit facility with a group of banks consisting of three components: a $1,000,000 revolver, a $1,000,000 termA-1 loan facility and a $400,000 termA-2 loan facility that has since been refinanced and repaid in full, as described below. Of the $1,400,000 proceeds received from the term loans under the credit facility, $1,265,648 was used to repay the outstanding borrowings and accrued interest under the prior Restricted Group credit facility that was scheduled to mature in June 2006, and $26,059 for fees and expenses. On March29, 2006, the Restricted Group entered into a $3,500,000 termB loan facility, of which $414,077 of the proceeds was used to prepay the outstanding borrowings of the termA-2 loan facility, including accrued interest, fees and expenses. The balance of the outstanding termB loan facility borrowings was invested in short-term AAA rated funds until approval of the special dividend by the Companys Board of Directors, and was then distributed to Cablevision on April24, 2006 after the special dividend was approved by the Board of Directors.
The three components of the new Restricted Group credit facility, the $1,000,000 revolver, the $1,000,000 termA-1 loan facility and the $3,500,000 termB loan facility, are direct obligations of CSC Holdings, guaranteed by most Restricted Group subsidiaries and secured by the pledge of the stock of most Restricted Group subsidiaries. As of February23,2007, $51,994 of the $1,000,000 revolving credit facility was restricted for certain letters of credit issued on behalf of CSC Holdings and $948,006 of the revolver was undrawn. The revolving credit facility and the termA-1 loan facility mature in six years in February 2012 and the termB loan facility matures in seven years in March 2013. The revolver has no required interim repayments, the $1,000,000 termA-1 loan facility requires quarterly repayments aggregating 0% in year one, 5% in each of years two and three, 25% in each of years four and five, and 40% in the final year and the $3,500,000 termB loan facility is subject to quarterly repayments totaling 1% ($8,750 per quarter) in each of years one through six and 94% ($822,500 per quarter) in the final year. The interest rate on the termA-1 loan facility varies, depending on the Restricted Groups cash flow ratio (as defined) from .75% to 1.75% over the Eurodollar Rate for Eurodollar-based borrowings and from zero to .75% over the Base Rate for Base Rate Borrowings (as defined). The interest rate on the borrowings under the termB loan facility is the Eurodollar Rate (as defined) plus 1.75% or prime rate plus .75%, at the Companys election. The weighted average interest rates as of December31, 2006 on borrowings under the termA-1 loan facility and termB loan facility were 6.62% and 7.12%, respectively.
The principal financial covenants, which are not identical for the revolving credit facility and the termA-1 loan facility, on the one hand, and the termB loan facility, on the other, include (i)under the revolving credit facility and the termA-1 loan facility, maximum total leverage of 7.50 to 1 with subsequent stepdowns over the life of the revolving credit facility and the termA-1 loan facility until reaching 4.50 to 1 for periods beginning on and after January1, 2010, (ii)under the revolving credit facility and the termA-1 loan facility, maximum senior secured leverage of 4.00 times cash flow through December31, 2006 with annual stepdowns thereafter over the life of the revolving credit facility and the termA-1 loan facility until reaching 3.00 to 1 for periods beginning on and after January1, 2010, (iii)under the revolving credit facility and the termA-1 loan facility, minimum ratios for cash flow to interest expense of 1.75 to 1 initially, increasing to 2.00 to 1 on and after July1, 2007, and (iv)under the revolving credit facility and the termA-1 loan facility, a minimum ratio of cash flow less cash taxes to total debt expense (defined to include interest expense, certain payments of principal and dividends paid 80 by CSC Holdings to Cablevision to permit Cablevision to pay interest and certain principal payments on its debt) of 1.50 to 1. These covenants and restrictions on the permitted use of borrowed funds in the revolving credit facility may limit our ability to utilize all of the undrawn revolver funds. Additional covenants include limitations on liens and the issuance of additional debt. Under the termB loan facility, we are limited in our ability to incur additional indebtedness based on a maximum ratio of total indebtedness to cash flow (as defined in the termB loan facility) of 7.50 to 1 with subsequent stepdowns over the life of the termB loan facility until reaching 5.00 to 1 for periods beginning on and after January1, 2010 and a maximum senior secured leverage ratio of 4.50 times cash flow (as defined in the term B loan facility).
Under the revolving credit facility and the termA-1 loan facility, there are generally no restrictions on investments that the Restricted Group may make, provided it is not in default. The Restricted Group can make distributions or other restricted payments so long as CSC Holdings is not in default but there is a limitation (initially $200,000, subject to increase to reflect capital contributions or issuance of equity interests) on restricted payments during any period when the cash flow leverage ratio is greater than 6.00 to 1. The $200,000 limitation does not apply to restricted payments by CSC Holdings to Cablevision to be used by Cablevision to make scheduled payments of principal or interest on its indebtedness. Under the termB loan facility, there also are generally no restrictions on investments that the Restricted Group may make provided it is not in default; however, CSC Holdings must also remain in compliance with the maximum ratio of total indebtedness to cash flow and the maximum senior secured leverage ratio. Our ability to make restricted payments is also limited by provisions in the term B loan facility and the indentures covering our notes and debentures.
CSC Holdings, a member of the Restricted Group, has issued senior and senior subordinated notes and debentures, which also contain financial and other covenants, though they are generally less restrictive than the covenants contained in the Restricted Groups bank credit facility. Principal covenants include a limitation on the incurrence of additional indebtedness based upon a maximum ratio of total indebtedness to cash flow (as defined in the indentures) of 9.00 to 1 and limitations on dividends and distributions. The indentures governing the Cablevision note and debenture issuances contain similar covenants and restrictions, including a limitation on additional debt incurrence based on a 9.00 to 1 debt to cash flow ratio. There are no covenants, events of default, borrowing conditions or other terms in the Restricted Groups credit facility or in any of CSC Holdings or Cablevisions other debt securities that are based on changes in the credit ratings assigned by any rating agency. The Restricted Group was in compliance with all of its financial covenants under its various credit agreements as of December31, 2006.
Cablevisions and CSC Holdings future access to the debt markets and the cost of any future debt issuances are also influenced by their credit ratings, which are provided by Moodys Investors Service and Standard & Poors. Key factors in the assessment of Cablevisions and CSC Holdings credit ratings include Cablevision and CSC Holdings financial strength and flexibility, operating capabilities, management risk tolerance and ability to respond to changes in the competitive landscape. The corporate credit rating for Cablevision and CSC Holdings is B1 with a stable outlook by Moodys and BB with a negative outlook by Standard & Poors. Any future downgrade to the Cablevision and/or CSC Holdings credit ratings by either rating agency could increase the interest rate on future debt issuances and could adversely impact our ability to raise additional funds. See discussion under Item1A - Risk Factors, A lowering or withdrawal of the ratings assigned to our debt securities by ratings agencies may further increase our future borrowing costs and reduce our access to capital.
81 Rainbow and Rainbow National Services RNS, our wholly-owned subsidiary which owns the common equity interests in the Companys AMC, WEtv and IFC programming operations, generated positive cash from operating activities in 2006. Its cash on hand, plus cash flow from operations and proceeds from borrowings available to it, provides the capital required for net funding and investment requirements of other Rainbow programming entities including the VOOM HD Networks, News12 Networks and fuse subject to the applicable covenants and limitations contained in RNS financing agreements.
On July5, 2006, RNS entered into an $800,000 senior secured credit facility (the New RNS Credit Facility) which consists of a $500,000 termA loan facility and a $300,000 revolving credit facility. The termA loan facility matures June30, 2013 and the revolving credit facility matures June30, 2012. The New RNS Credit Facility allows RNS to utilize up to $50,000 of the revolving credit facility for letters of credit and up to $5,000 for a swing loan. Further, the New RNS Credit Facility provides for an incremental facility of up to $925,000, provided that it be for a minimum amount of $100,000. If an incremental facility is established, RNS and the lenders will enter into a supplement to the New RNS Credit Facility with terms and conditions that are no more restrictive than those of the New RNS Credit Facility. There are no commitments from the lenders to fund an incremental facility.
On July5, 2006, RNS borrowed the entire $500,000 termA loan facility and $10,000 under the revolving credit facility. RNS used the $510,000 borrowed under the New RNS Credit Facility and $88,048 of additional available cash to repay all of its outstanding borrowings, accrued interest and fees due under its August 2004 $950,000 senior secured credit facility of which $592,500 was outstanding under a term loan at July5, 2006 (scheduled to mature March31, 2012) and to pay certain fees and expenses incurred in connection with the New RNS Credit Facility. RNS may use future borrowings under the New RNS Credit Facility to make investments, distributions, and other payments permitted under the New RNS Credit Facility and for general corporate purposes. The borrowings under the New RNS Credit Facility may be repaid without penalty at any time. Outstanding borrowings under the term loan and revolving credit facility at February 23,2007 were $500,000 and $10,000, respectively. RNS had $290,000 in undrawn revolver commitments at February 23,2007.
Borrowings under the New RNS Credit Facility are direct obligations of RNS which are guaranteed jointly and severally by substantially all of its subsidiaries and by Rainbow Programming Holdings LLC, the direct parent of RNS, and are secured by the pledge of the stock of RNS and substantially all of its subsidiaries, and all of the other assets of RNS and substantially all of its subsidiaries (subject to certain limited exceptions). Borrowings under the New RNS Credit Facility bear interest based on either the Base Rate (the greater of the Federal Funds Rate plus 0.5% and the prime rate (as defined in the New RNS Credit Facility)) or the Eurodollar Rate (as defined in the New RNS Credit Facility). The interest rate under the New RNS Credit Facility varies, depending on RNS cash flow ratio (as defined in the New RNS Credit Facility), from 1.0% to 1.5% over the Eurodollar Rate for Eurodollar-based borrowings and from zero to 0.5% over the Base Rate for Base Rate borrowings. At December 31, 2006, the interest rate on the termA loanfacility and the revolving credit facility was 6.62% and 6.60%, respectively. The termA loan is to be repaid in quarterly installments of 1.25% of the original outstanding balance ($6,250) from March31, 2008 until December31, 2010, 2.5% of the original outstanding balance ($12,500) from March31, 2011 until December31, 2012, and 32.5% of the original outstanding balance ($162,500) on March31, 2013 and June30, 2013, the maturity of the termA loan. Any amounts outstanding under the revolving credit facility are due at maturity on June30, 2012.
The financial covenants consist of (i)a minimum ratio of operating cash flow to total interest expense for each quarter (all as defined in the New RNS Credit Facility) of 1.75 to 1, (ii)a maximum cash flow ratio of total indebtedness to annualized operating cash flow (as defined in the New RNS Credit Facility) of 6.75 to 1 through June30, 2008, decreasing thereafter to 6.25 to 1, and (iii)a maximum senior secured leverage ratio of senior secured debt to annualized operating cash flow (all as defined in the New RNS 82 Credit Facility) of 5.50 to 1. Additional covenants include restrictions on indebtedness, guarantees, liens, investments, dividends and distributions and transactions with affiliates.
RNS is obligated to pay fees of 0.375% per annum on any undrawn revolver commitment.
RNS also has notes outstanding consisting of $300,000 principal amount of 8-3/4% senior notes due September1, 2012 and $500,000 principal amount of 10-3/8% senior subordinated notes due September1, 2014. These notes are guaranteed by substantially all of RNS subsidiaries.
RNS was in compliance with all of its financial covenants under its various credit agreements as of December31, 2006.
In April 2005, subsidiaries of the Company entered into agreements with EchoStar relating to the launch and operation of the business of Rainbow HD Holdings LLC, the Companys VOOM HD Networks high definition television programming service, subject to the closing of the sale of our satellite (Rainbow1) to EchoStar which occurred in November 2005. Under those arrangements, EchoStar was initially distributed a portion of the VOOM HD Networks programming service and, beginning in 2006 began carrying all 15 of the channels included in the programming service. In connection with the arrangements, EchoStar was issued a 20% interest in Rainbow HD Holdings, the Companys subsidiary owning the VOOM HD Networks, and that 20% interest will not be diluted until $500,000 in cash has been invested in Rainbow HD Holdings equity by the Company.
Under the terms of the affiliation arrangements with EchoStar covering the VOOM HD Networks for a 15year term, if Rainbow HD Holdings fails to spend $100,000 per year, up to a maximum of $500,000 in the aggregate, on its service offerings, EchoStar may terminate the affiliation agreement. The Company has the right to terminate the affiliation agreement if the VOOM HD Networks are discontinued in the future.
RNS future access to the debt markets and the cost of any future debt issuances are also influenced by its credit ratings, which are provided by Moodys Investors Service and Standard & Poors. Key factors in the assessment of RNS credit ratings include its free cash flow generating capacity, fiscal strategy, enterprise value and industry risk. The corporate credit rating for RNS is B1 with a stable outlook by Moodys and BB with a negative outlook by Standard & Poors. Any future downgrade to the RNS credit ratings by either rating agency could increase the interest rate on future debt issuances and could adversely impact its ability to raise additional funds. See discussion under Item1A - Risk Factors, A lowering or withdrawal of the ratings assigned to our debt securities by ratings agencies may further increase our future borrowing costs and reduce our access to capital.
Madison Square Garden We currently expect Madison Square Gardens funding requirements for the next twelve months to be met by its cash on hand and cash from operations.
During the fourth quarter of 2004, the Company announced its intent to renovate the MSG Arena. Although management of the Company is committed to this renovation project, another alternative, which would involve construction of a new arena on the site of the Farley post office, is also being pursued. A substantial renovation or relocation of the Arena would require significant funding.
83 Debt Covenants Compliance CSC Holdings and RNS Credit Agreements: On August29, 2006, CSC Holdings advised the agent bank and the lenders under the new Restricted Group credit facility that due to the expected restatement of its financial statements resulting from the stock option review, it was unable to comply with its covenant to deliver financial information, due on that date, with respect to the periods ended June30, 2005 and 2006.
On August29, 2006, the lenders under the new Restricted Group credit facility, other than the termB lenders, agreed to waive until September22, 2006 any default resulting from this covenant noncompliance. CSC Holdings delivered all required information under the new Restricted Group credit facility on September 21, 2006 and the information delivery covenant noncompliance was cured by that delivery.
The Restricted Group did not obtain a waiver of the default resulting from this covenant noncompliance from the lenders holding termB loans under the new Restricted Group credit facility and the bank serving as administrative agent under the new Restricted Group credit facility gave a notice of default to CSC Holdings with respect to such termB covenant noncompliance. CSC Holdings delivered all required information under the new Restricted Group credit facility on September21, 2006, which cured the information delivery covenant noncompliance within the applicable cure period.
In December 2005, the Company determined that there were certain technical covenant violations under the prior Restricted Group credit facility and the prior RNS credit facility. CSC Holdings and RNS received waivers from the lenders under the credit facilities and RNS entered into a related amendment of its credit agreement. In addition, the Company obtained waivers under the agreements governing its monetizations and interest rate swaps. On January31, 2006, the Company announced that it had cured these covenant violations and was in compliance with all of the covenants of its debt instruments.
Cablevision and CSC Holdings Indentures: As a result of not filing their Quarterly Report on Form10-Q for the quarter ended June30, 2006 by September8, 2006, Cablevision and CSC Holdings were not in compliance with the information delivery and filing requirements under the indentures relating to their notes and debentures. An entity stating that it represented holders of more than 25% of the outstanding securities of a series under one of Cablevisions indentures notified Cablevision that it is serving a notice of default under the applicable indenture and demanded that the covenant noncompliance be remedied. Cablevision and CSC Holdings delivered all required information under the indentures on September21, 2006, which cured any potential default within the applicable cure period, upon which time the Company was in compliance with all of the covenants of its debt instruments.
Monetization Contract Maturities During the year ended December31, 2006, monetization contracts covering 5,586,687shares of our Charter Communications stock, 3,449,785 shares of our AT&T stock, 12,742,033 shares of our General Electric stock and 7,159,206 shares of our Comcast Communications stock matured. We settled our obligations under the related Charter Communications and AT&T collateralized indebtedness by delivering an equivalent number of Charter Communications and AT&T shares and the cash proceeds from the related equity derivative contracts.
We settled our obligations under the related Comcast and General Electric collateralized indebtedness by delivering cash equal to the collateralized loan value, net of the value of the related equity derivative contracts. The cash was obtained from the proceeds of new monetization contracts covering an 84 equivalent number of Comcast and General Electric shares, proceeds from a prepaid interest rate swap executed in conjunction with the equity derivative contract related to the Comcast shares and, in certain instances, cash from CSC Holdings. The terms of the new contracts allow the Company to retain upside participation in both Comcast and General Electric shares up to each respective contracts upside appreciation limit with downside exposure limited below the respective hedge price.
During the next twelve months, monetization contracts covering 3,724,460 shares of Charter Communications stock and 800,000 shares of Leapfrog stock also mature. The Company intends to settle such transactions by either delivering shares of the applicable stock and proceeds of the equity derivative contracts or delivering cash from the proceeds of a new monetization transaction.
CASH FLOW DISCUSSION Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities amounted to $961,642 for the year ended December31, 2006 compared to $923,044for the year ended December31, 2005. The 2006 cash provided by operating activities resulted from $995,764 of income before depreciation and amortization, $129,496 of non-cash items, a $54,075 increase in accrued and other liabilities and $41,170 from an increase in accounts payable. Partially offsetting these increases were decreases in cash resulting from a $137,196 increase in feature film inventory resulting primarily from new film licensing and original programming agreements, a $59,616 increase in current and other assets, a $29,784 decrease in feature film and contract obligations, a $17,336 decrease in deferred carriage fees payable, and a $14,931 increase in other deferred costs, including an $11,469 increase in deferred carriage fees.
Net cash provided by operating activities amounted to $923,044 for the year ended December31, 2005 compared to $685,836for the year ended December31, 2004. The 2005 cash provided by operating activities resulted from $956,110of income before depreciation and amortization, $97,282of non-cash items, $88,716from an increase in accrued and other liabilities, and $45,371from a net increase in deferred carriage fees payable, $30,606 from an increase in accounts payable and $25,671from an increase in deferred revenue. Partially offsetting these increases were decreases in cash resulting from a $142,703increase in feature film inventory resulting from new film licensing agreements, a $96,752increase in current and other assets and an $81,257increase in deferred carriage fees. The increase of $81,257in deferred carriage fees and an offsetting increase in current and non-current liabilities of $52,527arose as one part of a series of multiple agreements entered into simultaneously with the settlement of the litigation between AMC and Time Warner Entertainment, L.P.
Net cash provided by operating activities amounted to $685,836for the year ended December31, 2004. The 2004 cash provided by operating activities resulted primarily from $652,642of income before depreciation and amortization, $218,479of non-cash items, a $52,033increase in accrued interest, a $129,777increase in feature film rights payable and a $11,915increase in accounts payable. Partially offsetting these increases were decreases in cash resulting from a $258,371increase in feature film inventory resulting from new film licensing agreements, a $89,283increase in current and other assets and a $31,356decrease in accrued and other liabilities.
Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities for the year ended December31, 2006 was $873,173 compared to $763,600for the year ended December31, 2005. The 2006 investing activities consisted primarily of $886,297 of capital expenditures ($819,747 of which relate to our Telecommunications Services segment), partially offset by other net cash receipts aggregating $13,124.
Net cash used in investing activities for the year ended December31, 2005 was $763,600 compared to $792,315for the year ended December31, 2004. The 2005 investing activities consisted of $769,292of 85 capital expenditures ($695,327 of which relate to our Telecommunication Services Segment), $12,886in additions to other intangible assets and $9,520in increases to investment securities and other investments, partially offset by a decrease of $27,342in restricted cash and other net cash receipts of $756.
Net cash used in investing activities for the year ended December31, 2004 was $792,315. The 2004 investing activities consisted of $697,514of capital expenditures ($621,480 of which relate to our Telecommunication Services Segment), an $84,738 payment for the acquisition of our interest in DTV Norwich and its acquisition of FCC licenses to provide multichannel video distribution and data service, a $35,797 increase in restricted cash and other net cash payments of $4,341, partially offset by $30,075received in connection with Northcoast Communications sale of PCS licenses, representing the release of funds held in escrow.
Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities amounted to $16,759 for the year ended December31, 2006 compared to $644,594 for the year ended December31, 2005. In 2006, the Companys financing activities consisted primarily of a $2,840,780dividend distribution to common stockholders, $263,125 used for the redemption of CSC Holdings senior subordinated debentures, $47,540 in deferred financing costs and other net cash payments of $6,314, partially offset by net proceeds from bank debt of $3,141,000.
Net cash used in financing activities amounted to $644,594 for the year ended December31, 2005 compared to net cash provided by financing activities of $805,200 for the year ended December31, 2004. In 2005, the Companys financing activities consisted of net repayments of bank debt of $638,000 and other net cash payments of $6,594.
Net cash provided by financing activities amounted to $805,200for the year ended December31, 2004. In 2004, the Companys financing activities consisted primarily of $2,793,922 of proceeds from the issuance of senior notes, net bank debt proceeds of $132,848and $7,270from the issuance of common stock, partially offset by payments of $1,694,622 for the redemption of CSC Holdings Series H and Series M Redeemable Preferred Stock and its Series A Exchangeable Participating Preferred Stock, $350,000to redeem CSC Holdings 9-7/8% senior subordinated debentures, $70,086of deferred financing costs and other net cash payments of $14,132.
Discontinued Operations The net effect of discontinued operations on cash and cash equivalents amounted to a cash inflow of $79,656 and $110,976 for the years ended December31, 2006 and 2005, respectively, and a cash outflow of $157,052 for the year ended December 31, 2004, respectively.
Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities of discontinued operations amounted to $75,189 for the year ended December31, 2006 compared to net cash used by operating activities of $64,535for the year ended December31, 2005. The 2006 cash provided by operating activities resulted primarily from the collection of $77,996 of affiliate revenue in June 2006 from a cable affiliate that had not been previously collected due to a contractual dispute.
Net cash used by operating activities of discontinued operations amounted to $64,535 for the year ended December31, 2005 compared to $73,860for the year ended December31, 2004. The 2005 cash used by operating activities resulted primarily from a loss of $67,691 before depreciation and amortization and non-cash items, partially offset by net changes in assets and liabilities of $3,156.
86 Net cash used by operating activities of discontinued operations amounted to $73,860 for the year ended December31, 2004. The 2004 operating activities resulted primarily from a loss of $72,184before depreciation and amortization and non-cash items and net changes in assets and liabilities of $1,676.
Investing Activities Net cash provided by investing activities of discontinued operations for the year ended December31, 2006 was $4,467 compared to net cash provided by investing activities of $80,174 for the year ended December31, 2005. The 2006 investing activities consisted of a $3,912 refund from a supplier and $555 of other net cash receipts.
Net cash provided by investing activities of discontinued operations for the year ended December31, 2005 was $80,174 compared to net cash used by investing activities of $84,816 for the year ended December31, 2004. The 2005 investing activities consisted of $200,801of proceeds primarily from the sale of the Rainbow DBS satellite, partially offset by $108,947of net cash transferred to News Corporation as part of the Regional Programming Partners restructuring, $11,504of capital expenditures and other net cash payments of $176.
Net cash used in investing activities of discontinued operations for the year ended December31, 2004 was $84,816. The 2004 investing activities consisted of $78,121of capital expenditures and $6,695 of additions to intangible assets.
The net increase in cash classified in assets held for sale was $95,337 and $1,624 for the years ended December31, 2005 and 2004, respectively.
87 Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Commitments The Companys contractual obligations as of December31, 2006, which consist primarily of our debt obligations, and the effect such obligations are expected to have on our liquidity and cash flow in future periods, are summarized in the following table: PaymentsDuebyPeriod Total Year1 Years2-3 Years4-5 Morethan 5years Off balance   sheet arrangements: Programming obligations (1) $ 2,902,599 $ 828,101 $ 1,175,374 $ 699,735 $ 199,389 Purchase obligations (2) 2,208,418 474,833 446,360 269,695 1,017,530 Operating lease obligations (3) 960,028 91,214 189,237 170,722 508,855 Guarantees (4) 2,221 2,221    Letters of Credit (5) 54,295 2,300 1,722  50,273 6,127,561 1,398,669 1,812,693 1,140,152 1,776,047 Contractual   obligations reflected on the balance sheet: Debt obligations (6) 12,503,891 714,045 3,211,096 1,795,000 6,783,750 Feature film obligations 434,234 121,890 151,440 78,673 82,231 Capital lease obligations (7) 73,929 10,789 42,420 9,072 11,648 Purchase obligations (8) 87,707 57,026 9,593 6,592 14,496 13,099,761 903,750 3,414,549 1,889,337 6,892,125 Total $ 19,227,322 $ 2,302,419 $ 5,227,242 $ 3,029,489 $ 8,668,172 See Liquidity and Capital Resources section for a discussion on payment options the Company has on its monetization contracts and notices of default received under various debt obligations. See Notes9 and 10 to our consolidated financial statements for a discussion of our long-term debt. See Note13 to our consolidated financial statements for a discussion of our operating leases. See Note1 to our consolidated financial statements for a discussion of our feature film obligations.
(1) Programming obligations represent contractual commitments with various programming vendors to provide video services to the Companys subscribers. Future fees under such contracts are based on numerous factors, including the number of subscribers receiving the programming. Amounts reflected above are based on the number of subscribers receiving the programming as of December 2006 multiplied by the per subscriber rates contained in the executed agreements in effect as of December31, 2006.
(2) Purchase obligation amounts not reflected on the balance sheet consist primarily of (i)long-term rights agreements which provide Madison Square Garden and other regional sports networks with exclusive broadcast rights to certain live sporting events in exchange for minimum contractual payments, (ii)payments under employment agreements that we have with our professional sports teams personnel that are generally guaranteed regardless of employee injury or termination, and (iii)minimum purchase requirements incurred in the normal course of the Companys operations.
(3) Operating lease commitments represent primarily future minimum payment obligations on various long-term, noncancelable leases for office and storage space, lease commitments for Radio City Music Hall, the Beacon Theater and Clearview Cinemas, and rental space on utility poles used for the Companys Telecommunications Segment.
(4) Includes outstanding guarantees primarily by CSC Holdings in favor of certain financial institutions in respect of ongoing interest expense obligations and potential early termination events in connection with the monetization of the Companys holdings of Charter Communications. Amounts payable under such monetization guarantees are estimated as of a particular point in time by the financial institution counterparty and are based upon the current price of the underlying common stock and various other assumptions, including stock market volatility and prevailing interest rates. Such guaranteed amounts approximate the fair value of the monetization indebtedness less the sum of the fair values of the underlying stock and the equity collar as reflected in the Companys accompanying consolidated balance sheet.
(5) Consist primarily of letters of credit obtained by CSC Holdings in favor of insurance providers and certain governmental authorities for the Telecommunications Services segment.
(6) Excludes interest payments and includes future payments due on the Companys (i)bank debt, (ii)senior notes and debentures, (iii)senior subordinated notes and debentures, (iv)collateralized indebtedness, and (v)notes payable.
88 (7) Reflects the face amount of capital lease obligations, including related interest.
(8) Consist principally of amounts earned under employment agreements that we have with our professional sports teams personnel. Other long-term obligations also include deferred carriage payments.
The future cash payments reflected above do not include the impact of potential insurance recoveries or amounts which may be due to the NBA for luxury tax payments.
In addition, the future cash payments reflected above do not include the payments required under the Companys agreements with EchoStar relating to the launch and operation of the business of Rainbow HD Holdings, the Companys VOOM HD Networks high-definition television programming service. EchoStar was issued a 20% interest in Rainbow HD Holdings, the Companys subsidiary owning the VOOM HD Networks programming service, and that 20% interest will not be diluted until $500,000 in cash has been invested in Rainbow HD Holdings by the Company. Under the terms of the affiliation arrangements with EchoStar covering the VOOM HD Networks for a 15 year term, if Rainbow HD Holdings fails to spend $100,000per year, up to a maximum of $500,000 in the aggregate, on its service offerings, EchoStar may terminate the affiliation agreement. The Company has the right to terminate the affiliation agreement if the VOOM HD Networks are discontinued in the future. On the fifth or eighth anniversary of the effective date of the agreement, the termination of the affiliation agreement by EchoStar, or other specified events, EchoStar has a put right to require a wholly-owned subsidiary of Rainbow Media Holdings to purchase all of its equity interests in Rainbow HD Holdings at fair value. On the seventh or tenth anniversary of the effective date of the agreement, or the second anniversary date of the termination of the Affiliation Agreement by EchoStar, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Rainbow Media Holdings has a call right to purchase all of EchoStars ownership in Rainbow HD Holdings at fair value.
Managing our Interest Rate and Equity Price Risk Interest Rate Risk To manage interest rate risk, we have entered into interest rate swap contracts to adjust the proportion of total debt that is subject to variable and fixed interest rates. Such contracts effectively fix the borrowing rates on floating rate debt to provide an economic hedge against the risk of rising rates and/or effectively convert fixed rate borrowings to variable rates to permit the Company to realize lower interest expense in a declining interest rate environment. We do not enter into interest rate swap contracts for speculative or trading purposes and have only entered into transactions with counterparties that are rated investment grade.
All of our interest rate derivative contracts are entered into by CSC Holdings and are thus attributable to the Restricted Group; all such contracts are carried at their fair market values on our consolidated balance sheets, with changes in value reflected in the consolidated statements of operations.
Equity Price Risk We have entered into derivative contracts to hedge our equity price risk and monetize the value of our shares of Comcast, Charter Communications, General Electric, and Leapfrog. These contracts, at maturity, are expected to offset declines in the fair value of these securities below the hedge price per share, while allowing us to retain upside appreciation from the hedge price per share to the relevant cap price. If any one of these contracts is terminated prior to its scheduled maturity date due to the occurrence of an event specified in the contract, we would be obligated to repay the fair value of the collateralized indebtedness less the sum of the fair values of the underlying stock and equity collar, calculated at the termination date. The underlying stock and the equity collars are carried at fair market value on our consolidated balance sheets and the collateralized indebtedness is carried at its accreted value. Please refer to Note 10 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information on these transactions.
89 See Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk for information on how we participate in changes in the market price of the stocks underlying these derivative contracts.
All of our monetization transactions are obligations of certain wholly-owned subsidiaries that are not part of the Restricted Group; however, in the Charter Communications transactions and certain of the 2005 Comcast transactions, CSC Holdings provided guarantees of the subsidiaries ongoing contract payment expense obligations and potential payments that could be due as a result of an early termination event (as defined in the agreements). The guarantee exposure approximates the net sum of the fair value of the collateralized indebtedness less the sum of the fair values of the underlying stock and the equity collar. All of our equity derivative contracts are carried at their current fair market value on our consolidated balance sheets with changes in value reflected in the consolidated statements of operations, and all of the counterparties to such transactions currently carry investment grade credit ratings.
Related Party Transactions Dolan Family Group Proposals On June19, 2005, the Company received a proposal from the Dolan Family Group to acquire the outstanding, publicly-held interests in the Company following a pro-rata distribution to all Company stockholders of Rainbow Media Holdings. On October24, 2005, Cablevision received a letter from the Dolan Family Group withdrawing the June19, 2005 proposal. In that letter, the Dolan Family Group also recommended that the Companys Board of Directors consider the declaration of a $3billion one-time, special dividend payable pro rata to all shareholders. The dividend was paid on April24, 2006 to holders of Cablevision NY Group ClassA common stock and Cablevision NY Group Class B common stock.
On October8, 2006, the Company received a proposal from the Dolan Family Group (the Dolan Family Group Proposal) to acquire, at a purchase price of $27.00 per share in cash, all the outstanding shares of the Companys common stock, except for the shares held by the Dolan Family Group. The Dolan Family Group Proposal contemplated that substantially all of the purchase price would be funded by the incurrence of additional indebtedness by Cablevision, CSC Holdings, RNS and several other subsidiaries of the Company.
Cablevisions Board of Directors appointed a special transaction committee (the Committee) of independent directors, which consisted of ThomasV. Reifenheiser and Vice Admiral JohnR. Ryan USN (Ret.), to review the proposal. The Committee retained Willkie Farr & Gallagher LLP, as its legal counsel, and Lehman Brothers Inc. and Morgan Stanley, as financial advisors.
On January12, 2007, the Committee received a letter from Charles F. Dolan and James L. Dolan, on behalf of members of the Dolan Family Group, outlining a revised proposal (the Revised Proposal) to acquire all of the outstanding shares of the common stock of Cablevision, except for the shares held by the Dolan Family Group, at a purchase price of $30.00 per share in cash.
On January16, 2007, the Committee delivered a letter to CharlesF. Dolan and JamesL. Dolan, rejecting the Revised Proposal as inadequate. The Revised Proposal expired on January 17, 2007. There can be no assurances that the Dolan Family Group will not propose, undertake or consummate a similar transaction in the future.
90 Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Adopted In February 2007, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued SFAS No.159, The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities - Including an amendment of FASB Statement No.115 (Statement No.159). Statement No.159 permits entities to elect, at specified election dates, to measure eligible financial instruments and certain other items at fair value. An entity shall report unrealized gains and losses on items for which the fair value option has been elected in earnings at each subsequent reporting date, and recognize upfront costs and fees related to those items in earnings as incurred. Statement No.159 is effective as of January1, 2008 for the Company. Early adoption is permitted, but an entity is prohibited from retrospectively applying Statement No.159, unless it chooses early adoption of Statement No.157 and Statement No.159. SFAS No.159 also applies to eligible items existing at January1, 2008 (or when the date of early adoption occurs).
In December 2006, the FASB issued Staff Position No. EITF00-19-2, Accounting for Registration Payment Arrangements (FSP00-19-2). FSP00-19-2 provides guidance related to the accounting for registration payment arrangements and specifies that the contingent obligation to make future payments or otherwise transfer consideration under a registration payment arrangement, whether issued as a separate arrangement or included as a provision of a financial instrument or arrangement, should be separately recognized and measured in accordance with SFAS No.5, Accounting for Contingencies (Statement No.5). FSP00-19-2 requires that if the transfer of consideration under a registration payment arrangement is probable and can be reasonably estimated at inception, the contingent liability under such arrangement shall be included in the allocation of proceeds from the related financing transaction using the measurement guidance in Statement No.5. FSP00-19-2 applies immediately to any registration payment arrangement entered into subsequent to the issuance of FSP00-19-2. For such arrangements issued prior to the issuance of FSP00-19-2, the guidance is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after December15, 2006 and interim periods within those fiscal years. The Company has not yet determined the impact that the adoption of FSP00-19-2 will have on its financial statements.
In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No.157, Fair Value Measurements (Statement No.157). Statement No.157 defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value in generally accepted accounting principles, and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. Under Statement No.157, fair value refers to the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants in the market in which the reporting entity transacts. It also clarifies the principle that fair value should be based on the assumptions market participants would use when pricing the asset or liability. This Statement applies under other accounting pronouncements that require or permit fair value measurements. Accordingly, this Statement does not require any new fair value measurements, however, for some entities, the application of Statement No.157 could change current practices.
Statement No.157 will be effective for financial statements issued with fiscal years beginning after November15, 2007, and interim periods within those fiscal years. The Company has not yet determined the impact that the adoption of Statement No.157 will have on its financial statements.
In June 2006, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation (FIN)48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes - an interpretation of SFAS No.109. This Interpretation clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes recognized in an enterprises financial statements in accordance with SFAS No.109, Accounting for Income Taxes. FIN48 prescribes a recognition threshold and measurement attribute for the financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. Any change in the net assets and liabilities recognized as a result of applying the provisions of FIN48 would be recorded as an adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings. FIN48 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December15, 2006. The Company does not expect the adoption of FIN48 to have a significant impact on its financial statements.
91 In June 2006, the Emerging Issues Task Force reached a consensus on Issue No.06-3, How Taxes Collected from Customers and Remitted to Governmental Authorities Should Be Presented in the Income Statement (That Is, Gross versus Net Presentation) (EITF No.06-3), which addresses the income statement disclosures for taxes assessed by a governmental authority that is directly imposed on a revenue-producing transaction between a seller and a customer, and may include, but are not limited to, sales, use, value added, and some excise taxes. The presentation of taxes on either a gross (included in revenues and costs) or a net (excluded from revenues) basis is an accounting policy decision that should be disclosed pursuant to Accounting Principles Board Opinion22. In addition, for any such taxes that are reported on a gross basis, a company should disclose the amounts of those taxes in interim and annual financial statements for each period for which an income statement is presented if those amounts are significant and can be done on an aggregate basis. EITF No.06-3 will be effective for financial reports for interim and annual reporting periods beginning after December15, 2006. Had the Company adopted EITF 06-3 for the year ended December31, 2006, the amount of franchise fees that would have been separately disclosed as a component of net revenue would have approximated $101,000.
Item 7A.
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.
All dollar amounts, except per subscriber, per unit and per share data, included in the following discussion under this Item 7A are presented in thousands.
Equity Price Risk The Company is exposed to market risks from changes in certain equity security prices. Our exposure to changes in equity security prices stems primarily from the shares of Comcast, Charter Communications, General Electric and Leapfrog common stock held by us. We have entered into prepaid forward contracts consisting of a collateralized loan and an equity collar to hedge our equity price risk and to monetize the value of these securities. These contracts, at maturity, are expected to offset declines in the fair value of these securities below the hedge price per share, while allowing us to retain upside appreciation from the hedge price per share to the relevant cap price. The contracts actual hedge prices per share vary depending on average stock prices in effect at the time the contracts were executed. The contracts actual cap prices vary depending on the maturity and terms of each contract, among other factors. If any one of these contracts is terminated prior to its scheduled maturity date due to the occurrence of an event specified in the contract, we would be obligated to repay the fair value of the collateralized indebtedness less the sum of the fair values of the underlying stock and equity collar, calculated at the termination date. The following table details our estimated early termination exposure as of December31, 2006: Comcast Charter Communications GeneralElectric Leapfrog Total Collateralized   indebtedness (carrying value) $ (431,123 ) $ (83,231 ) $ (388,183 ) $ (19,037 ) $ (921,574 ) Collateralized   indebtedness (fair value estimate) (423,211 ) (83,404 ) (375,483 ) (18,937 ) (901,035 ) Derivative   contract (116,576 ) 69,787 (46,573 ) 11,353 (82,009 ) Fair value of   investment securities pledged as collateral 606,098 11,397 474,131 7,584 1,099,210 Net excess   (shortfall) 66,311 (2,220 ) 52,075  116,166 Net excess (shortfall)   including prepaid swaps $ 66,311 $ (2,220 ) $ 52,075 $  $ 116,166 92 The underlying stock and equity collars are carried at fair value on our consolidated balance sheet and the collateralized indebtedness is carried at its accreted value. The carrying value of our collateralized indebtedness amounted to $921,574 at December31, 2006.
At maturity, the contracts provide for the option to deliver cash or shares of General Electric, Charter Communications, Comcast, or Leapfrog stock (as the case may be), with a value determined by reference to the applicable stock price at maturity.
As of December31, 2006, the fair value and the carrying value of our holdings of Comcast, Charter Communications, General Electric and Leapfrog common stock aggregated $1,099,210. Assuming a 10% change in price, the potential change in the fair value of these investments would be approximately $109,921. As of December31, 2006, the net fair value and the carrying value of the equity collar component of the prepaid forward contracts entered into to hedge the equity price risk of certain of these securities aggregated $82,009, a net payable position. For the year ended December31, 2006, we recorded a net loss on all outstanding equity derivative contracts of $214,352. We also recorded an unrealized and realized gain on our holdings of the underlying stocks of $284,096 for the year ended December31, 2006, as shown in the following table: FairMarketValueofEquityDerivativeContracts Fair market value as of   December 31, 2005 $ 296,017 Change in fair value (214,352 ) Maturity of contracts (163,674 ) Fair market value as of   December 31, 2006 $ (82,009 ) Unrealized and realized gain on underlying stock positions due to   changes in prevailing market conditions, net $ 284,096 In addition, at December31, 2006, the Company had other investment securities with a carrying value of approximately $10,715. Assuming a 10% change in the price of the securities, the potential change in the fair value of these investments would be approximately $1,072.
The maturity, number of shares deliverable at the relevant maturity, hedge price per share, and the lowest and highest cap prices received for each security monetized via a prepaid forward contract are summarized in the following table: #ofShares HedgePrice CapPrice** Security Deliverable Maturity perShare* Low High Comcast 7,159,206 2008 $ 26.69 - $41.2 3 $ 33.57 $ 49.48 7,159,206 2009 Charter   Communications 3,724,460 2007 $ 22.35 $ 38.33 $ 38.33 General Electric 12,742,033 2009 $ 32.52 - $34.14 $ 39.03 $ 40.96 Leapfrog 800,000 2007 $ 24.05 $ 30.37 $ 30.37 * Represents the price below which we are provided with downside protection and above which we retain upside appreciation. Also represents the price used in determining the cash proceeds payable to us at inception of the contracts.
** Represents the price up to which we receive the benefit of stock price appreciation.
Fair Value of Debt : Based on the level of interest rates prevailing at December31, 2006, the fair value of our fixed rate debt of $6,886,074 exceeded its carrying value of $6,812,986 by $73,088. The fair value of these financial instruments is estimated based on reference to quoted market prices for these or comparable securities. Our floating rate borrowings bear interest in reference to current LIBOR-based market rates and thus approximate fair value. The effect of a hypothetical 100 basis point decrease in interest rates prevailing at December31, 2006 would increase the estimated fair value of our fixed rate debt by $236,505 to $7,122,579. This estimate is based on the assumption of an immediate and parallel shift in interest rates across all maturities.
93 Interest Rate Derivative Contracts : Our exposure to interest rate movements results from our use of floating rate debt, including $3,500,000 of debt incurred in 2006 to fund the approximately $3,000,000 special dividend described herein and to repay existing indebtedness of approximately $414,000, including accrued interest, fees and expenses. To manage interest rate risk, from time to time we have entered into interest rate swap contracts to adjust the proportion of total debt that is subject to variable and fixed interest rates. Such contracts effectively fix the borrowing rates on floating rate debt to provide an economic hedge against the risk of rising rates and/or effectively convert fixed rate borrowings to variable rates to permit the Company to realize lower interest expense in a declining interest rate environment. In addition, from time to time we may utilize short-term interest rate lock agreements to hedge the risk that the cost of a future issuance of fixed rate debt may be adversely affected by changes in interest rates. We do not enter into interest rate swap contracts for speculative or trading purposes. All of our interest rate derivative contracts are entered into by CSC Holdings and are thus attributable to the Restricted Group; all such contracts are carried at their fair market values on our consolidated balance sheets, with changes in value reflected in the consolidated statements of operations.
As of December31, 2006, we had outstanding interest rate swap contracts to convert fixed rate debt to floating rate debt covering a total notional principal amount of $450,000. As of December31, 2006, the fair market value and carrying value of these interest rate swap contracts was $6,568, a net liability position, reflected as liabilities under derivative contracts in our consolidated balance sheet. Assuming an immediate and parallel shift in interest rates across the yield curve, a 100 basis point increase in interest rates from December31, 2006 prevailing levels would increase the fair value of these contracts to a net liability of $10,963.
As of December31, 2006, we also had outstanding interest rate swap contracts in the notional amount of $3,700,000to effectively fix borrowing rates on floating rate debt. As of December31, 2006, these interest rate swap contracts had a fair market value and carrying value of $31,398, a net liability position, as reflected under derivative contracts in our consolidated balance sheet. Assuming an immediate and parallel shift in interest rates across the yield curve, a 100 basis point decrease in interest rates prevailing at December31, 2006 would increase our liability under these derivative contracts by $98,663 to a liability of $130,061.
For the year ended December31, 2006, we recorded a net loss on interest swap contracts of $36,473, as detailed in the table below: FairMarketValueofInterestRateDerivativeContracts Fair market   value as of December 31, 2006, a net payable position $ (37,966 ) Less: fair market value as of December 31, 2005 (10,541 ) Change in fair   market value, net (27,425 ) Plus: realized loss from cash interest expense (9,048 ) Net loss on interest   rate swap contracts $ (36,473 ) 94 In addition, we had outstanding at December31, 2006 prepaid interest rate swap contracts with a notional value of $105,061 entered into in connection with our monetization transactions. As of December31, 2006, the fair value of our prepaid interest rate derivative contracts was $10,340, a net liability position. Assuming an immediate and parallel shift in interest rates across the yield curve, a 100 basis point increase in interest rates from December31, 2006 prevailing levels would increase our liability under these derivative contracts by $697 to a liability of $11,037.
For the year ended December31, 2006, we recorded a net loss on such derivative contracts of $2,887 as detailed below: FairMarketValueofPrepaidInterestRateDerivativeContracts Fair market value   as of December 31, 2005 $ (26,881 ) Change in fair   market value, net 23,037 New derivative   contract (6,496 ) Fair market   value as of December 31, 2006 $ (10,340 ) Change in fair   market value, net $ 23,037 Realized loss   resulting from net cash payments (25,924 ) Net gain on prepaid   interest rate swap contracts $ 2,887 Item 8.
Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.
For information required by Item8, refer to the Index to Financial Statements on page 110.
Item 9.
Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure.
None.
Item 9A.
Controls and Procedures Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures An evaluation was carried out under the supervision and with the participation of the Companys management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined under SEC rules). Based upon that evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that the design and operation of these disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of December31, 2006.
Managements Annual Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting The Companys management is responsible for establishing and maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting as defined in Rules13a-15(f) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. The Companys internal control over financial reporting is a process designed under the supervision of the Companys Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer to provide reasonable assurance to the Companys management and Board of Directors regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of the Companys external financial statements, including estimates and judgments, in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Therefore, even those internal controls determined to be effective can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to financial statement preparation and presentation.
95 The Companys management conducted an assessment of the effectiveness of the Companys internal control over financial reporting based on the framework established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). Based on this assessment, management concluded that the Companys internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December31, 2006.
Attestation Report of the Registered Public Accounting Firm Managements assessment of the effectiveness of the Companys internal control over financial reporting as of December31, 2006 has been audited by KPMG LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in their attestation reports appearing on pages I-1, I-2, II-1 and II-2.
Changes in Internal Control None.
Item 9B.
Other Information None.
PART III Information required under Item10, Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance, Item11, Executive Compensation, Item12, Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters, Item13, Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence and Item14, Principal Accountant Fees and Services, is hereby incorporated by reference from Cablevisions definitive proxy statement for its Annual Meeting of Stockholders or, if such definitive proxy statement is not filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission prior to April30, 2007, an amendment to this annual report on Form10-K filed under cover of Form10-K/A.
Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance Pursuant to regulations promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Company is required to identify, based solely on a review of reports filed under Section16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each person who, at any time during its fiscal year ended December31, 2006, was a director, officer or beneficial owner of more than 10% of the Companys ClassA common stock that failed to file on a timely basis any such reports. Based on such review, the Company is aware of no such failure other than an amended Form4 report filed by ThomasC. Dolan in connection with stock option exercises in February 2006 and reports on Form 4 by Patrick F. Dolan and Brian Sweeney reporting a grant of restricted stock which were filed after the required filing date.
96 PART IV Item 15.
Exhibits   and Financial Statement Schedules (a) The following documents are filed as part of this   report: 1.
The financial statements as indicated in the index   set forth on page 110.
2.
Financial statement schedule: Page No.
Schedule   supporting consolidated financial statements: Schedule II - Valuation   and Qualifying Accounts 98 Schedules other than that listed above have been   omitted, since they are either not applicable, not required or the   information is included elsewhere herein.
3.
The Index to Exhibits is on page 101.
97 CABLEVISION SYSTEMS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES (Dollars in thousands, except per united and per share data) SCHEDULE II VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS Cablevision Systems Corporation Balanceat Beginningof Period Provisionfor BadDebt Deduction/ Write-Offs andOther Charges BalanceatEnd ofPeriod Year Ended   December31, 2006 Allowance for   doubtful accounts $ 18,807 $ 40,829 $ (42,291 ) $ 17,345 Year Ended   December31, 2005 Allowance for   doubtful accounts $ 16,312 $ 35,806 $ (33,311 ) $ 18,807 Year Ended   December31, 2004 Allowance for   doubtful accounts $ 24,729 $ 35,788 $ (44,205 ) $ 16,312 CSC Holdings, Inc.
Balanceat Beginningof Period Provisionfor BadDebt Deductions/ Write-Offs andOther Charges BalanceatEnd ofPeriod Year Ended   December31, 2006 Allowance for doubtful   accounts $ 18,807 $ 40,829 $ (42,291 ) $ 17,345 Year Ended   December31, 2005 Allowance for doubtful   accounts $ 16,312 $ 35,806 $ (33,311 ) $ 18,807 Year Ended   December31, 2004 Allowance for doubtful accounts $ 24,729 $ 35,788 $ (44,205 ) $ 16,312 Certain amounts in prior years have been reclassed to conform to the current year presentation.
98 SIGNATURES Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrants have duly caused this report to be signed on their behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized on the 27th day of February, 2007.
Cablevision Systems Corporation CSC Holdings, Inc.
By: /s/ Michael P. Huseby Name: Michael P. Huseby Title: Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer   of Cablevision Systems Corporation and CSC Holdings, Inc.
POWER OF ATTORNEY KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS, that each person whose signature appears below constitutes and appoints JamesL. Dolan and MichaelP. Huseby, and each of them, his true and lawful attorneys-in-fact and agents, with full power of substitution and resubstitution, for him in his name, place and stead, in any and all capacities, to sign this report, and file the same, with all exhibits thereto, and other documents in connection therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, granting unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents, full power and authority to do and perform each and every act and thing requisite and necessary to be done as fully to all intents and purposes as he might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents or any of them may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, this report has been signed below by the following persons in the capacities and on the dates indicated on behalf of each of the Registrants.
Name Title Date /s/ James L.   Dolan Chief Executive Officer, President and Director February 27, 2007 James L. Dolan (Principal Executive Officer) /s/ Michael P.   Huseby Executive Vice President and Chief Financial February 27, 2007 Michael P.   Huseby Officer (Principal Financial Officer) /s/ Wm. Keith   Harper Senior Vice President and Controller February 27, 2007 Wm. Keith Harper (Principal Accounting Officer) /s/ Charles F.   Dolan Chairman of the Board of Directors February 27, 2007 Charles F. Dolan 99 SIGNATURES Name Title Date /s/ Rand Araskog Director February 27, 2007 Rand Araskog /s/ Frank Biondi Director February 27, 2007 Frank Biondi /s/ Grover C.   Brown Director February 27, 2007 Grover C. Brown /s/ Zachary W.   Carter Director February 27, 2007 Zachary W.   Carter /s/ Marianne   Dolan Weber Director February 27, 2007 Marianne Dolan   Weber /s/ Patrick F.   Dolan Director February 27, 2007 Patrick F. Dolan /s/ Charles D.   Ferris Director February 27, 2007 Charles D.   Ferris /s/ Richard H.   Hochman Director February 27, 2007 Richard H.   Hochman /s/ Victor   Oristano Director February 27, 2007 Victor Oristano /s/ Thomas V.   Reifenheiser Director February 27, 2007 Thomas V. Reifenheiser /s/ John R. Ryan Director February 27, 2007 John R. Ryan /s/ Brian   Sweeney Director February 27, 2007 Brian Sweeney /s/ Vincent Tese Director February 27, 2007 Vincent Tese /s/ Leonard Tow Director February 27, 2007 Leonard Tow 100 INDEX TO EXHIBITS EXHIBIT NO.
DESCRIPTION 3.1 Amended and Restated   Certificate of Incorporation of Cablevision Systems Corporation (incorporated   herein by reference to AnnexII to Cablevision Systems Corporation's   Proxy Statement, dated October10, 2000, as supplemented, (the   "2000 Proxy Statement")).
3.2 Bylaws of Cablevision   Systems Corporation (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit3.2 of   the Quarterly Report on Form10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended   March31, 2001).
3.3 Certificate of   Incorporation of CSC Holdings,Inc. (incorporated herein by reference to   Exhibits 3.1A(i)and 3.1A(ii) to CSC Holdings' Annual Report on   Form10-K for the fiscal year ended December31, 1989).
3.4 Bylaws of CSC Holdings,Inc.   (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit3.1 of the Quarterly Report   on Form10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2006).
3.5 Certificate of   Amendment of Certificate of Incorporation of CSC Holdings,Inc., dated   April1, 1999 (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit3.1 of   CSC Holdings' Quarterly Report on Form10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended   March31, 1999).
3.6 Certificate of   Amendment of Certificate of Incorporation of CSC Holdings,Inc., dated   April1, 1999 (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit3.2 of   CSC Holdings' Quarterly Report on Form10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended   March31, 1999).
3.7 Certificate of   Designations for CSC Holdings, Inc. 10% Series A Exchangeable Participating   Preferred Stock (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit10.13 to   the 2002 10-K).
3.8 Certificate of   Amendment of Certificate of Incorporation of CSC Holdings, Inc., dated April   19, 2006 (incorporated herein by reference to the Current Report on Form 8-K   filed on April 21, 2006).
4.1 Indenture, dated   August15, 1997 relating to CSC Holdings' $400,000,000 8 1 /8% Senior Debentures due   2009 (incorporated herein by reference to CSC Holdings' Registration   Statement on FormS-4, Registration No.333-38013).
4.2 Indenture, dated as of   December1, 1997 relating to CSC Holdings' $500,000,000 7 7 /8% Senior Notes due 2007 and   $300,000,000 7 7 /8%   Senior Debentures due 2018 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit4.4 to   Cablevision Systems Corporation's Registration Statement on FormS-4,   dated January20, 1998, File No.333-44547).
4.3 Senior Indenture, dated as of July1, 1998,   relating to CSC Holdings, Inc.'s $500,000,000 7% Senor Notes due 2008   and $500,000,000 7 5 /8% Senior Debentures due 2018 (incorporated by reference   to Exhibit4.1 to CSC Holdings' Registration Statement on FormS-3,   Registration No.333-57407).
101 4.4 Indenture, dated as of July1, 1999 relating to   CSC Holdings $500,000,000 8 1 /8% Senior Notes due 2009 (incorporated by reference to   Exhibit4.2 to Registration Statement on FormS-4 Registration   No.333-84449).
4.5 Indenture, dated as of March 22, 2001 relating to   CSC Holdings $1,000,000,000 7 5 /8% Senior Notes due 2011   (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit4.11 to Cablevision Systems   Corporation's Annual Report on Form10-K for the fiscal year ended   December 31, 2000).
4.6 Indenture, dated as of April6, 2004 relating   to Cablevision's $1,000,000,000 8% Senior Notes due 2012 (incorporated by   reference to Exhibit4.1 to Cablevision's Quarterly Report on   Form10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2004).
4.7 Indenture, dated as of April6, 2004 relating   to Cablevision's $500,000,000 floating rate Senior Notes due 2009   (incorporated by reference to Exhibit4.2 to Cablevision's Quarterly   Report on Form10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2004).
4.8 Indenture, dated as of April6, 2004 relating   to CSC Holdings' $500,000,000 6 3 /4% Senior Notes due 2012   (incorporated by reference to Exhibit4.3 to Cablevision's Quarterly   Report on Form10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2004).
4.9 Indenture, dated as of August20, 2004,   relating to Rainbow National Services LLC's and RNS Co-Issuer Corporation's   $300,000,000 8 3 /4%   Senior Notes due 2012 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit4.1 to   Cablevision's Quarterly Report on Form10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended   September30, 2004).
4.10 Indenture, dated as of August20, 2004,   relating to Rainbow National Services LLC's and RNS Co-Issuer Corporation's   $500,000,000 10 3 /8%   Senior Subordinated Notes due 2014 (incorporated by reference to   Exhibit4.2 to Cablevision's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the   fiscal quarter ended September30, 2004).
10.1 Registration Rights Agreement, dated April 6, 2004   between CSC Holdings, Inc. and Citigroup Globalmarkets Inc., Banc of America   Securities LLC, Bear, Stearns & co. Inc, Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner   & Smith Incorporated, Wachovia Capital Markets, LLC Credit Lyonnais   Securities (USA) Inc. and Harris Nesbitt Corp. (incorporated by reference to   Exhibit 4.1 to CSC Holdings' Registration Statement on Form S-4, Registration   No. 33-124061).
10.2 Registration Rights Agreement between CSC Systems   Company and CSC Holdings (incorporated herein by reference to   Exhibit10.1 of CSC Holdings' Registration Statement on FormS-1,   Registration No.033-01936 ("CSC Holdings' FormS-1")).
10.3 Registration Rights Agreement between Cablevision   Company and CSC Holdings (incorporated herein by reference to   Exhibit10.2 to CSC Holdings' FormS-1).
10.4 Formof Right of First Refusal Agreement   between CharlesF. Dolan and CSC Holdings (incorporated herein by   reference to Exhibit10.4 to CSC Holdings' FormS-1).
102 10.5 Interchange Agreement, dated as of March 1, 2002, by   and between CSC Transport IV, Inc. and Sterling Aviation LLC. 2011   (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit10.5 to Cablevision Systems   Corporation's Annual Report on Form10-K for the fiscal year ended December   31, 2005).
10.6 Amendment to Interchange Agreement, dated as of   March 17, 2004, by and between CSC Transport IV, Inc. and Sterling Aviation   LLC. (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit10.6 to Cablevision   Systems Corporation's Annual Report on Form10-K for the fiscal year   ended December 31, 2005).
10.7 Extension of Interchange Agreement, dated as of   March 15, 2005, by and between CSC Transport IV, Inc. and Sterling Aviation   LLC. (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit10.7 to Cablevision   Systems Corporation's Annual Report on Form10-K for the fiscal year   ended December 31, 2005).
10.8 Employment Agreement between Charles F. Dolan and   CSC Holdings, dated January 27, 1986 (incorporated herein by reference to   Exhibit10.9 to CSC Holdings' FormS-1).
10.9 Employment Agreement, dated as of April29,   2003, between Cablevision Systems Corporation and James L. Dolan   (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit10.1 of the Quarterly   Report on Form10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended June30, 2003).
10.10 Amendment to Employment Arrangements between   Cablevision Systems Corporation and James L. Dolan, dated March 2, 2005   (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit10.47 to the 2004 10-K).
10.11 Employment Agreement, dated as of June11,   2003, between Cablevision Systems Corporation and Hank Ratner (incorporated   herein by reference to Exhibit10.2 of the Quarterly Report on   Form10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended June30, 2003).
10.12 Amendment to Employment Arrangements between   Cablevision Systems Corporation and Hank Ratner, dated March 2, 2005   (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit10.48 to the 2004 10-K).
10.13 Employment Agreement, dated as of June23,   2003, between Cablevision Systems Corporation and Thomas Rutledge   (incorporated by reference to Exhibit10.1 to Cablevision's Quarterly   Report on Form10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2004).
10.14 Amendment to Employment Arrangements between   Cablevision Systems Corporation and Thomas Rutledge, dated March 2, 2005   (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit10.49 to the 2004 10-K).
10.15 Letter Agreement, dated August2, 2004, between   Cablevision Systems Corporation and Michael Huseby (incorporated by reference   to Exhibit10.2 to Cablevision's Quarterly Report on Form10-Q for   the fiscal quarter ended September30, 2004).
10.16 Amendment to Employment Arrangements between   Cablevision Systems Corporation and Michael Huseby, dated March 2, 2005   (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit10.50 to the 2004 10-K).
103 10.17 Letter Agreement, dated April 28, 2006, between   Cablevision Systems Corporation and Michael Huseby (incorporation herein by   reference to Exhibit 10.5 to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal   quarter ended March 31, 2006).
10.18 Letter Agreement, dated October 11, 2004, between   Cablevision Systems Corporation and Wm. Keith Harper (incorporated by   reference to Exhibit10.3 to Cablevision's Quarterly Report on   Form10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended September30, 2004).
10.19 Retirement Agreement, dated as of June23, 2003   and Consulting Agreement as of January 3, 2004, between Cablevision Systems   Corporation, CSC Holdings, Inc. and Sheila Mahony (incorporated herein by   reference to Exhibit 10.3 of the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal   quarter ended June30, 2003).
10.20 Amendment to Retirement Agreement, dated as of   January 2, 2004, between Cablevision Systems Corporation, CSC Holdings, Inc.   and Sheila Mahony (incorporated by reference to Exhibit10.45 of the   Annual Report on Form10-K for fiscal year ended December 31, 2003).
10.21 Employment Agreement, dated as of November7,   2002, between CSC Holdings and William J. Bell (incorporated herein by   reference to Exhibit(d)(3) to Cablevision Systems Corporation's   Schedule TO Tender Offer Statement, dated January 23, 2002).
10.22 Extension to Employment Agreement, dated as of   March12, 2004 and Consulting Agreement as of January 1, 2005, between   CSC Holdings and William J. Bell (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.46   of the Annual Report on Form 10-K for fiscal year ended December 31, 2003).
10.23 Supplemental Benefit Plan of CSC Holdings   (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit10.7 to CSC Holdings'   FormS-1).
10.24 Cablevision Systems Corporation Employee Stock Plan   (incorporated herein by reference to ExhibitA to Cablevision Systems   Corporation's June3, 2003 Proxy Statement).
10.25 Cablevision Systems Corporation 2006 Employee Stock   Plan (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit A to Cablevision Systems   Corporation's 2006 Proxy Statement).
10.26 Cablevision Systems Corporation Executive   Performance Incentive Plan (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit10.24   to Cablevision Systems Corporation's Annual Report on Form10-K for the   fiscal year ended December 31, 2005).
10.27 Cablevision Systems Corporation Long-Term Incentive   Plan (incorporated herein by reference to ExhibitB to Cablevision   Systems Corporation's June3, 2003 Proxy Statement).
10.28 Cablevision Systems Corporation 2006 Cash Incentive   Plan (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit B to Cablevision Systems   Corporation's 2006 Proxy Statement).
10.29 Cablevision Systems Corporation Amended and Restated   Stock Plan for Non-Employee Directors (incorporated herein by reference to   ExhibitD to Cablevision Systems Corporation's 2003 Proxy Statement).
104 10.30 Cablevision Systems Corporation 2006 Stock Plan for   Non-Employee Directors (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit C to   Cablevision Systems Corporation's 2006 Proxy Statement).
10.31 Cablevision CHOICE Severance Pay Plan (incorporated   herein by reference to Exhibit10.49 to the 2003 10-K).
10.32 Formation Agreement, dated as of June22, 1997,   among Rainbow Media Sports Holdings, Inc. and Fox Sports Net, LLC, attaching   Partners) and Annex B (Partnership Agreement of National Sports Partners)   (incorporated by reference to Exhibit99.1 to Current Report on   Form8-K, filed April1997).
10.33 Lease Agreement between Nassau Cable Business Trust,   as Landlord and CSC Holdings, as Tenant, dated as of November1, 1997   2007 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit10.56 to Cablevision Systems   Corporation's Registration Statement on FormS-4, dated January20,   1998, File No.333-44547).
10.34 Amended and Restated Contribution and Merger   Agreement, dated as of June6, 1997, among Cablevision Systems   Corporation, CSC Holdings, CSC Merger Corporation and TCI Communications,   Inc. (incorporated by reference to Appendix A to Cablevision Systems   Corporation's Registration Statement on Form S-4, dated January 20, 1998,   File No. 333-44547).
10.35 Stockholders Agreement, dated as of March 4, 1998,   by and among CSC Holdings, Tele-Communications, Inc., a Delaware corporation,   the Class B Entities and the Investors (incorporated by reference to   Exhibit4.1 to Current Report on Form8-K, filed March 4, 1998).
10.36 Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of   April18, 2000, by and among CSC Holdings, Inc., Cablevision of   Massachusetts, Inc., AT&T Corp. and AT&T CSC, Inc. (incorporated by   reference to Exhibit99.1 to Current Report on Form8-K, filed on   May 5, 2000).
10.37 Asset Exchange Agreement, dated as of April18,   2000, by and among CSC Holdings, Inc., Cablevision of Brookline, L.P.,   Cablevision of Boston, Inc. and AT&T Corp. (incorporated by reference to   Exhibit99.2 to Current Report on Form8-K, filed on May 5, 2000).
10.38 Letter Agreement, dated January 31, 2001, among   Cablevision Systems Corporation, Rainbow Media Holdings, Inc.,   Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Inc., American Movie Classics Holding Corporation, AMC II   Holding Corporation, Bravo Holding Corporation, and Bravo II Holding   Corporation (incorporated by reference to Exhibit99.1 to Current Report   on Form8-K filed, February 5, 2001).
10.39 Agreement and Plan of Merger and Exchange, dated as   of November4, 2002, by and between Cablevision Systems Corporation,   Bravo Holding Corporation, Bravo II Holding Corporation, Rainbow Media Group,   LLC, National Broadcasting Company, Inc., NBC-Rainbow Holding, Inc. and   Applause Acquisition Corporation (incorporated herein by reference to   Exhibit99.1 to Current Report on Form8-K, filed November6,   2002).
105 10.40 Purchase Agreement, dated as of June27, 2003,   by and among Rainbow Media Holdings, Inc., American Movie Classics III   Holding Corporation, American Movie Classics IV Holding Corporation, IFC II Holding   Corporation, IFC III Holding Corporation, Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Inc., MGM   Networks U.S. Inc and, solely for purposes of Sections 2.02(b), 2.02(c),   5.01, 10.05, 10.08 and 10.11, Cablevision Systems Corporation (incorporated   by reference to Exhibit10.38 of the Annual Report on Form10-K for   fiscal year ended December 31, 2003).
10.41 Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of   July18, 2003, between Cablevision Systems Corporation, and MGM Networks   U.S. Inc. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit10.39 of the Annual   Report on Form10-K for fiscal year ended December 31, 2003).
10.42 Purchase Agreement, dated as of December 12, 2003,   by and among Fox Sports Net Bay Area Holdings, LLC, Fox Sports Net Chicago   Holdings, LLC and Fox Sports Net, LLC and Regional Pacific Holdings II,   L.L.C. and Regional Chicago Holdings II, L.L.C. (incorporated by reference to   Exhibit10.40 of the Annual Report on Form10-K for fiscal year   ended December 31, 2003).
10.43 Letter Agreement, dated as of January 12, 2004,   between DTV Norwich, LLC, wholly-owned by George S. Blumenthal and Company,   LLC and Rainbow MVDDS Company, LLC (incorporated by reference to   Exhibit10.43 of the Annual Report on Form10-K for fiscal year   ended December 31, 2003).
10.44 Credit Agreement, dated as of February 24, 2006   among CSC Holdings, Inc., as the Company, certain subsidiaries of the   company, as Restricted Subsidiaries, the Lenders party thereto, Bank of   America, N.A., as Administrative Agent, Collateral Agent and L/C Issuer, Banc   of America Securities LLC and Citigroup Global Markets Inc., as Joint Lead   Arrangers, Banc of Americas Securities LLC, Citigroup Global Markets Inc. and   JPMorgan Securities, Inc., as Book Runners on the Revolving Credit Facility   and the Term A Facility, Citibank, N.A., as Syndication Agent, and Credit Suisse,   Bear Stearns Corporate Lending Inc., JPMorgan Securities, Inc. and Merrill   Lynch Capital Corporation, as Co-Documentation Agents (incorporated herein by   reference to Exhibit10.41 to Cablevision Systems Corporation's Annual   Report on Form10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005).
10.45 First Amendment, dated as of March 27, 2006, to the   Credit Agreement, dated as of February 24, 2006, among CSC Holdings, Inc., as   the Company, certain subsidiaries of the Company, as Restricted Subsidiaries,   the Lenders party thereto, Bank of   America, N.A., as Administrative Agent, Collateral Agent and L/C Issuer, Banc   of America Securities LLC and Citigroup Global Markets Inc., as Joint Lead   Arrangers, Banc of Americas Securities LLC, Citigroup Global Markets Inc. and   JPMorgan Securities, Inc., as Book Runners on the Revolving Credit Facility   and the Term A Facility, Citibank, N.A., as Syndication Agent, and Credit Suisse, Bear Stearns Corporate   Lending Inc., JPMorgan Securities, Inc. and Merrill Lynch Capital   Corporation, as Co-Documentation Agents (incorporated herein by   reference to Exhibit10.2 to the Current Report on Form10-Q for   the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2006).
106 10.46 Second Amendment, dated as of March 29, 2006, to the   Credit Agreement, dated as of February 24, 2006, among CSC Holdings, Inc., as   the Company, certain subsidiaries of the Company, as Restricted Subsidiaries,   the Lenders party thereto, Bank of America,   N.A., as Administrative Agent, Collateral Agent and L/C Issuer, Banc of   America Securities LLC and Citigroup Global Markets Inc., as Joint Lead   Arrangers, Banc of Americas Securities LLC, Citigroup Global Markets Inc. and   JPMorgan Securities, Inc., as Book Runners on the Revolving Credit Facility   and the Term A Facility, Citibank, N.A., as Syndication Agent, and Credit Suisse, Bear Stearns Corporate   Lending Inc., JPMorgan Securities, Inc. and Merrill Lynch Capital   Corporation, as Co-Documentation Agents (incorporated herein by   reference to Exhibit10.3 to the Current Report on Form10-Q for   the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2006).
10.47 Incremental Term Supplement, dated as of March 29,   2006, among CSC Holdings, Inc., the banks party thereto, and Bank of America,   N.A., as Administrative Agent (incorporated herein by reference to   Exhibit10.4 to the Current Report on Form10-Q for the fiscal   quarter ended March 31, 2006).
10.48 Pledge Agreement, dated as of February 24, 2006,   among CSC Holdings, Inc., certain subsidiaries of CSC Holdings, Inc. as   Pledgors and Bank of America, N.A. as Secured Party (incorporated herein by   reference to Exhibit10.42 to Cablevision Systems Corporation's Annual   Report on Form10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005).
10.49 Loan Agreement, dated as of August20, 2004,   among Rainbow National Services LLC, the Guarantors party thereto, Bank of   America, N.A. as Syndication Agent, Credit Suisse First Boston, Citicorp   North America, Inc. and Wachovia Bank, National Association as   Co-Documentation Agents, JP Morgan Chase Bank as Administrative Agent and the   other Credit Parties thereto (incorporated by reference to Exhibit10.1   to Cablevision's Quarterly Report on Form10-Q for the fiscal quarter   ended September30, 2004).
10.50 First Amendment, dated as of January 20, 2006, to   the Loan Agreement, dated as of August20, 2004, among Rainbow National   Services LLC, the Guarantors party thereto, Bank of America, N.A. as   Syndication Agent, Credit Suisse First Boston, Citicorp North America, Inc.   and Wachovia Bank, National Association as Co-Documentation Agents, JP Morgan   Chase Bank as Administrative Agent and the other Credit Parties thereto   (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit10.44 to Cablevision   Systems Corporation's Annual Report on Form10-K for the fiscal year   ended December 31, 2005).
10.51 Credit Agreement, dated as of July 5, 2006, among   Rainbow National Services LLC, as Borrower, Rainbow Programming Holdings LLC   and certain subsidiaries of RNS, as guarantors, the lenders party thereto,   JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent and L/C Issuer, J.P.   Morgan Securities Inc. and Banc of America Securities LLC, as Joint Lead   Arrangers and Book Runners, Bank of America, N.A., as Syndication Agent, and   Credit Suisse, Citicorp North America, Inc. and Wachovia Bank, National   Association as Co-Documentation Agents (incorporated herein by reference to   Exhibit 99.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K filed on April 21, 2006).
107 10.52 Pledge Agreement, dated as of July 5, 2006, among   Rainbow National Services LLC, the Guarantors party thereto, the Lenders   party thereto, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent and L/C   Issuer, J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. and Banc of America Securities LLC, as   Joint Lead Arrangers and Book Runners, Bank of America, N.A., as Syndication   Agent, and Credit Suisse, Citicorp North America, Inc. and Wachovia Bank,   National Association as Co-Documentation Agents.
10.53 Distribution and Transfer Agreement entered into as   of February 18, 2005 by and among Rainbow Regional Holdings LLC, Fox Sports   RPP Holdings, Inc., Rainbow National Sports Holdings LLC, Fox Sports Net   National Network Holdings II, LLC, Rainbow Advertising Holdings LLC, Fox   Sports Net National Ad Sales Holdings II, LLC, Rainbow Media Holdings, LLC,   Fox Sports Net Bay Area Holdings, LLC, Regional Pacific Holdings II, L.L.C.,   Fox Sports Net Chicago Holdings, LLC, Fox Sports Net, Inc. and Exhibit B   (Partnership Agreement of Pacific Regional Programming Partners)   (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit10.44 to the 2004 10-K).
10.54 Satellite Sale Agreement between Rainbow DBS Company   LLC and EchoStar Satellite L.L.C., dated January 20, 2005 (incorporated herein   by reference to Exhibit10.45 to the 2004 10-K).
10.55 Agreement between Cablevision Systems Corporation,   Charles F. Dolan and Thomas C. Dolan, dated March 8, 2005 (incorporated   herein by reference to Exhibit10.46 to the 2004 10-K).
10.56 Contract, dated November 21, 2004 between Lockheed   Martin Corporation, acting through Lockheed Martin Commercial Space Systems   and Rainbow DBS Company LLC. (Confidential portions of this Exhibit have been   deleted and filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission   pursuant to a request for confidential treatment.) (incorporated herein by   reference to Exhibit10.56 to the 2004 10-K).
10.57 Letter agreement amending the contract, dated   November 21, 2004 between Lockheed Martin Corporation, acting through   Lockheed Martin Commercial Space Systems and Rainbow DBS Company LLC   (incorporated by reference to Exhibit10.56.1 to Current Report on   Form8-K, filed June 6, 2005).
10.58 Form of Nonqualified Stock Option Agreement   (February 16, 2005) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit10.1 to   Current Report on Form8-K, filed November 16, 2005).
10.59 Form of Restricted Shares Agreement (February 16,   2005) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit10.2 to Current Report on   Form8-K, filed February 16, 2005).
10.60 Form of Two-Year Performance Award Agreement   (February 16, 2005) (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit10.3 to   Current Report on Form8-K, filed February 16, 2005).
10.61 Form of Three-Year Performance Award Agreement   (February 16, 2005) (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit10.4 to   Current Report on Form8-K, filed February 16, 2005).
10.62 Form of Deferred Compensation Agreement (February   16, 2005) (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit10.5 to Current   Report on Form8-K, filed February 16, 2005).
108 10.63 Form of Nonqualified Stock Option Agreement   (November 7, 2005) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit10.1 to Current   Report on Form8-K, filed November 7, 2005).
10.64 Form of Nonqualified Stock Option Agreement (Vesting   Subject to Performance Metric) (November 7, 2005) (incorporated by reference   to Exhibit10.2 to Current Report on Form8-K, filed November 7,   2005).
10.65 Form of Restricted Shares Agreement (November 7,   2005) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit10.3 to Current Report on   Form8-K, filed November 7, 2005).
10.66 Form of Performance Award Agreement (November 7,   2005) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit10.4 to Current Report on   Form8-K, filed November 7, 2005).
10.67 Form of Deferred Compensation Agreement (November 7,   2005) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit10.5 to Current Report on   Form8-K, filed November 7, 2005).
10.68 Form of Nonqualified Stock Option Agreement (June 5,   2006) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit10.1 to the Current Report   on Form8-K, filed June 7, 2006).
10.69 Form of Restricted Shares Agreement (June 5, 2006)   (incorporated by reference to Exhibit10.2 to the Current Report on   Form8-K, filed June 7, 2006).
10.70 Form of Restricted Shares Agreement (June 5, 2006)   (incorporated by reference to Exhibit10.2 to the Current Report on   Form8-K, filed June 7, 2006).
10.71 Form of Stock Option and Restricted Stock Unit   Agreement for Non-Employee Directors (June 5, 2006) (incorporated by   reference to Exhibit10.3 to the Current Report on Form8-K, filed   June 7, 2006).
10.72 Summary of the Cablevision CHOICE Excess Savings   Plan.
10.73 Summary of the Cablevision CHOICE Excess Cash   Balance Plan.
10.74 Time Sharing Agreement, dated as of   November22, 2006 between CSC Transport IV, Inc. and CharlesF.   Dolan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit10.1 to the Current Report   on Form8-K, filed November29, 2006).
10.75 Time Sharing Agreement, dated as of   November22, 2006 between CSC Transport V, Inc. and CharlesF.   Dolan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit10.2 to the Current Report   on Form8-K, filed November29, 2006).
10.76 Time Sharing Agreement, dated as of November22,   2006 between CSC Transport IV, Inc. and JamesL. Dolan (incorporated by   reference to Exhibit10.3 to the Current Report on Form8-K, filed   November29, 2006).
10.77 Time Sharing Agreement, dated as of   November22, 2006 between CSC Transport V, Inc. and JamesL. Dolan   (incorporated by reference to Exhibit10.4 to the Current Report on   Form8-K, filed November29, 2006).
109 21 Subsidiaries of the Registrants.
23.1 Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting   Firm.
23.2 Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting   Firm.
31.1 Section 302 Certification of the CEO.
31.2 Section 302 Certification of the CFO.
32 Section 1350 Certification of the CEO and CFO.
110 INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CABLEVISION SYSTEMS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES Consolidated Financial Statements Page Reports of Independent Registered Public Accounting   Firm I-1 Consolidated   Balance Sheets - December31, 2006 and 2005 I-4 Consolidated Statements of Operations - years ended   December31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 I-6 Consolidated Statements of Stockholders Deficiency   and Comprehensive Income (Loss) - years ended December31, 2006, 2005   and 2004 I-7 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows - years ended   December31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 I-8 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements I-10 CSC HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Consolidated Financial Statements Reports of Independent Registered Public Accounting   Firm II-1 Consolidated Balance Sheets - December31, 2006   and 2005 II-4 Consolidated Statements of Operations - years ended   December31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 II-6 Consolidated Statements of Stockholders Deficiency   and Comprehensive Income (Loss) - years ended December31, 2006, 2005   and 2004 II-7 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows - years ended   December31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 II-8 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements II-10 111 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm The Board of Directors and Stockholders Cablevision Systems Corporation: We have audited managements assessment, included in the accompanying Managements Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting , that Cablevision Systems Corporation and subsidiaries maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of December31, 2006, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO).
Cablevision Systems Corporations management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on managements assessment and an opinion on the effectiveness of the Companys internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.
We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, evaluating managements assessment, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
A companys internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A companys internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the companys assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
In our opinion, managements assessment that Cablevision Systems Corporation and subsidiaries maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of December31, 2006, is fairly stated, in all material respects, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). Also, in our opinion, Cablevision Systems Corporation and subsidiaries maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December31, 2006, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO).
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheets of Cablevision Systems Corporation and subsidiaries as of December31, 2006 and 2005, and the related consolidated statements of operations, stockholders deficiency and comprehensive income (loss), and cash flows for each of the years in the I-1 three-year period ended December31, 2006, and our report dated February27, 2007 expressed an unqualified opinion on those consolidated financial statements.
As discussed in our report dated February27, 2007, the Company changed its method of quantifying errors in 2006 in accordance with Securities and Exchange Commission Staff Accounting Bulletin No.108, Considering the Effects of Prior Year Misstatements when Quantifying Misstatements in the Current Year Financial Statement , adopted the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No.123 (Revised 2004), Share-Based Payment as of January1, 2006 and adopted the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No.158, Employers Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans, as of December31, 2006.
/s/ KPMG LLP Melville, New York February 27, 2007 I-2 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm The Board of Directors and Stockholders Cablevision Systems Corporation: We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Cablevision Systems Corporation and subsidiaries as of December31, 2006 and 2005, and the related consolidated statements of operations, stockholders deficiency and comprehensive income (loss), and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December31, 2006. In connection with our audits of the consolidated financial statements, we also have audited the financial statement schedule listed in Item15(a)(2). These consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedule are the responsibility of the Companys management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedule based on our audits.
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Cablevision Systems Corporation and subsidiaries as of December31, 2006 and 2005, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December31, 2006, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Also in our opinion, the related financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein.
As discussed in Notes 1 and 2 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements, the Company changed its method of quantifying errors in 2006 in accordance with Securities and Exchange Commission Staff Accounting Bulletin No.108, Considering the Effects of Prior Year Misstatements when Quantifying Misstatements in Current Year Financial Statements , adopted the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No.123 (Revised 2004), Share-Based Payment, as of January1, 2006 and adopted the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No.158, Employers Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans, as of December31, 2006.
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the effectiveness of Cablevision Systems Corporation and subsidiaries internal control over financial reporting as of December31, 2006, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO), and our report dated February27, 2007 expressed an unqualified opinion on managements assessment of, and the effective operation of, internal control over financial reporting.
/s/ KPMG LLP Melville, New York February 27, 2007 I-3 CABLEVISION SYSTEMS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS December 31, 2006 and 2005 (Dollars in thousands) 2006 2005 ASSETS Current Assets: Cash and cash equivalents $ 548,862 $ 397,496 Restricted cash 11,390 8,454 Accounts receivable, trade (less allowance for   doubtful accounts of $17,345 and $18,807) 536,057 453,167 Notes and other receivables 46,915 74,211 Investment securities 10,715 10,408 Prepaid expenses and other current assets 104,577 98,921 Feature film inventory, net 124,778 108,607 Deferred tax asset 184,032 10,788 Investment securities pledged as collateral 18,981 723,476 Derivative contracts 81,140 268,539 Assets held for sale  7,557 Total current assets 1,667,447 2,161,624 Property, plant   and equipment, net of accumulated depreciation of $6,257,078 and $5,494,994 3,714,842 3,868,077 Investments in   affiliates 49,950 39,463 Notes and other   receivables 29,659 42,987 Investment   securities pledged as collateral 1,080,229 199,430 Derivative   contracts  109,207 Other assets 80,273 83,801 Deferred tax   asset  25,662 Feature film   inventory, net 375,700 378,502 Deferred   carriage fees, net 174,377 188,135 Franchises 731,848 731,848 Affiliation,   broadcast and other agreements, net of accumulated amortization of $417,634   and $349,752 452,888 519,363 Other intangible   assets, net of accumulated amortization of $77,795 and $68,192 325,298 388,622 Excess costs   over fair value of net assets acquired 1,032,117 993,426 Deferred   financing and other costs, net of accumulated amortization of $68,705 and   $85,450 130,229 120,965 $ 9,844,857 $ 9,851,112 See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
I-4 CABLEVISION SYSTEMS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (continued) December 31, 2006 and 2005 (Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts) 2006 2005 LIABILITIES AND   STOCKHOLDERS DEFICIENCY Current Liabilities: Accounts payable $ 392,605 $ 373,362 Accrued   liabilities: Interest 224,135 177,109 Employee related   costs 387,868 288,751 Other accrued   expenses 412,248 489,989 Defined benefit   plan and other postretirement plan obligations 1,091  Deferred revenue 162,956 162,514 Feature film and   other contract obligations 122,362 112,817 Liabilities   under derivative contracts 6,568 101,580 Bank debt 93,750 8,560 Collateralized   indebtedness 102,268 857,774 Capital lease   obligations 7,069 8,586 Notes payable 17,826 8,438 Senior notes and   debentures 499,952  Total current   liabilities 2,430,698 2,589,480 Defined benefit plan   and other postretirement plan obligations 82,517  Feature film and other   contract obligations 312,344 351,673 Deferred revenue 14,337 16,219 Liabilities under   derivative contracts 204,887 17,571 Other liabilities 251,456 361,018 Deferred tax liability 73,724  Bank debt 4,898,750 1,842,940 Collateralized   indebtedness 819,306 312,352 Senior notes and   debentures 5,494,004 5,992,760 Senior subordinated   notes and debentures 497,011 746,621 Notes payable 1,017 7,467 Capital lease   obligations 54,389 51,201 Minority interests 49,670 55,190 Total   liabilities 15,184,110 12,344,492 Commitments and   contingencies Stockholders   Deficiency: Preferred Stock,   $.01 par value, 50,000,000 shares authorized, none issued   CNYG   ClassA common stock, $.01 par value, 800,000,000 shares authorized,   250,927,804 and 247,430,685 shares issued and 228,643,568 and 225,268,714   shares outstanding 2,509 2,474 CNYG   ClassB common stock, $.01 par value, 320,000,000 shares authorized,   63,736,814 and 64,160,264 shares issued and outstanding 637 642 RMG ClassA   common stock, $.01 par value, 600,000,000 shares authorized, none issued   RMG ClassB   common stock, $.01 par value, 160,000,000 shares authorized, none issued   Paid-in capital 57,083 1,307,786 Accumulated   deficit (5,027,473 ) (3,440,967 ) (4,967,244 ) (2,130,065 ) Treasury stock,   at cost (22,284,236 and 22,161,971 shares) (360,059 ) (359,753 ) Accumulated   other comprehensive loss (11,950 ) (3,562 ) Total   stockholders deficiency (5,339,253 ) (2,493,380 ) $ 9,844,857 $ 9,851,112 See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
I-5 CABLEVISION SYSTEMS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS Years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 (Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts) 2006 2005 2004 Revenues, net $ 5,927,462 $ 5,172,478 $ 4,632,537 Operating expenses: Technical and   operating (excluding depreciation, amortization and impairments shown below) 2,707,970 2,296,908 2,191,247 Selling, general   and administrative 1,480,187 1,291,845 1,184,682 Other operating   income   (95,758 ) Restructuring   credits (3,484 ) (537 ) (835 ) Depreciation and   amortization (including impairments) 1,128,813 1,083,643 1,138,675 5,313,486 4,671,859 4,418,011 Operating income 613,976 500,619 214,526 Other income (expense): Interest expense (928,202 ) (764,508 ) (721,008 ) Interest income 37,187 16,430 8,300 Equity in net   income (loss) of affiliates 6,698 3,219 (12,997 ) Gain on sale of   programming and affiliate interests, net  64,968 2,232 Gain (loss) on   investments, net 290,052 (138,312 ) 134,598 Write-off of   deferred financing costs (14,083 )  (18,961 ) Gain (loss) on   derivative contracts, net (253,712 ) 119,180 (165,305 ) Loss on   extinguishment of debt (13,125 )  (78,571 ) Minority   interests (8,894 ) (5,471 ) (50,307 ) Miscellaneous,   net 2,837 651 63 (881,242 ) (703,843 ) (901,956 ) Loss from continuing   operations before income taxes (267 ,266 ) (203,224 ) (687,430 ) Income tax   benefit 134,217 75,691 201,397 Loss from continuing   operations (133,049 ) (127,533 ) (486,033 ) Income (loss) from   discontinued operations, net of taxes (including net gain primarily from the   Regional Programming Partners restructuring of $269,428 in 2005) 7,446 216,853 (185,476 ) Income (loss) before   extraordinary item (125,603 ) 89,320 (671,509 ) Extraordinary loss on   investment, net of taxes   (7,436 ) Income (loss) before   cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle (125,603 ) 89,320 (678,945 ) Cumulative effect of a   change in accounting principle, net of taxes (862 )   Net income (loss) $ (126,465 ) $ 89,320 $ (678,945 ) INCOME (LOSS) PER SHARE: Basic and diluted net income   (loss) per share: Loss from   continuing operations $ (0.47 ) $ (0.45 ) $ (1.69 ) Income (loss)   from discontinued operations $ 0.03 $ 0.77 $ (0.65 ) Extraordinary   loss $  $  $ (0.03 ) Cumulative   effect of a change in accounting principle $  $  $  Net income   (loss) $ (0.45 ) $ 0.32 $ (2.36 ) Basic and diluted   weighted average common shares (in thousands) 283,627 281,936 287,085 See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
I-6 CABLEVISION SYSTEMS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS DEFICIENCY AND COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS ) Years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 (Dollars in thousands) CNYG ClassA Common Stock CNYG ClassB Common Stock RMG ClassA Common Stock RMG ClassB Common Stock Paid-in Capital Accumulated Deficit Treasury Stock Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income(Loss) Total Balance at   December 31, 2003 $ 2,414 $ 672 $  $  $ 1,206,068 $ (2,851,342 ) $ (359,750 ) $ (952 ) $ (2,002,890 ) Net loss      (678,945 )   (678,945 ) Minimum pension liability adjustment, net of taxes        (2,792 ) (2,792 ) Foreign currency translation, net of taxes        (191 ) (191 ) Comprehensive loss (681,928 ) Employee and non-employee director stock transactions 10    37,607    37,617 Conversion of CNYG ClassB common stock to CNYG   ClassA common stock 14 (14 )        Tax expense related to stock options     (63 )    (63 ) Balance at   December 31, 2004 2,438 658   1,243,612 (3,530,287 ) (359,750 ) (3,935 ) (2,647,264 ) Net income      89,320   89,320 Minimum pension liability adjustment, net of taxes        182 182 Foreign currency translation, net of taxes        191 191 Comprehensive income 89,693 Employee and non-employee director stock transactions 20    46,184    46,204 Conversion of CNYG ClassB common stock to CNYG   ClassA common stock 16 (16 )        Treasury stock acquired from forfeiture of restricted   shares       (3 )  (3 ) Contribution from CNYG ClassB shareholder     6,337    6,337 Gain on issuance of members interest by subsidiary,   net     10,397    10,397 Tax benefit related to stock options     1,256    1,256 Balance at   December 31, 2005 2,474 642   1,307,786 (3,440,967 ) (359,753 ) (3,562 ) (2,493,380 ) Cumulative effect   of adjustments resulting from the adoption of SAB No.108, net of tax   (Note 2)      121,668   121,668 Adjusted balance   at January 1, 2006 2,474 642 1,307,786 (3,319,299 ) (359,753 ) (3,562 ) (2,371,712 ) Net loss      (126,465 )   (126,465 ) Minimum pension   liability adjustment, net of taxes        (1,484 ) (1,484 ) Comprehensive   loss (127,949 ) Adjustment   related to initial application of FASB Statement No. 158, net of tax (Note   15)        (6,904 ) (6,904 ) Employee and   non-employee director stock transactions 30    75,524    75,554 Treasury stock   acquired from forfeiture of restricted shares       (306 )  (306 ) Conversion of   CNYG ClassB common stock to CNYG ClassA common stock 5 (5 )        Special cash   dividend paid to CNYG Class A and CNYG Class B shareholders     (1,326,227 ) (1,581,709 )   (2,907,936 ) Balance at December 31,   2006 $ 2,509 $ 637 $  $  $ 57,083 $ (5,027,473 ) $ (360,059 ) $ (11,950 ) $ (5,339,253 ) See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
I-7 CABLEVISION SYSTEMS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS Years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 (Dollars in thousands) 2006 2005 2004 Cash flows from   operating activities: Loss from   continuing operations $ (133,049 ) $ (127,533 ) $ (486,033 ) Adjustments to   reconcile loss from continuing operations to net cash provided by operating   activities: Depreciation and   amortization (including impairments) 1,128,813 1,083,643 1,138,675 Non-cash other   operating income   (41,788 ) Equity in net   (income) loss of affiliates (6,698 ) (3,219 ) 12,997 Minority   interests 8,894 5,471 50,307 Gain on sale of   programming and affiliate interests, net  (64,968 ) (2,232 ) Loss (gain) on   investments, net (284,542 ) 138,312 (134,598 ) Write-off of   deferred financing costs 14,083  18,961 Unrealized loss   (gain) on derivative contracts, net 218,740 (156,082 ) 149,911 Loss on   extinguishment of debt 13,125  3,987 Equity classified   stock based compensation expense 63,894 29,002 30,341 Deferred income   tax (143,763 ) (85,184 ) (208,159 ) Amortization and   write-off of feature film inventory 123,827 113,926 192,682 Amortization of   deferred financing costs, discounts on indebtedness and other deferred costs 80,524 85,490 114,069 Provision for   doubtful accounts 41,412 34,534 32,001 Change in assets   and liabilities, net of effects of acquisitions and dispositions: Accounts   receivable, trade (109,445 ) (80,371 ) (69,132 ) Notes and other   receivables 48,525 11,486 (20,814 ) Note receivable   from affiliate   12,877 Inventory,   prepaid expenses and other assets 1,387 (11,159 ) 5,259 Advances/payables   to affiliates (1,263 ) 1,223 (2,906 ) Feature film   inventory (137,196 ) (142,703 ) (258,371 ) Other deferred   costs (14,931 ) (99,203 ) (17,690 ) Accounts payable 41,170 30,606 11,915 Accrued   liabilities 59,075 88,710 18,296 Feature film and   other contract obligations (29,784 ) (222 ) 129,777 Deferred revenue (3,820 ) 25,671 1,669 Deferred   carriage payable (17,336 ) 45,371 4,782 Minority   interests  243 (947 ) Net cash   provided by operating activities 961,642 923,044 685,836 Cash flows from   investing activities: Capital   expenditures (886,297 ) (769,292 ) (697,514 ) Payments for   acquisitions, net of cash acquired  (4,231 ) (84,738 ) Proceeds from   sale of equipment, net of costs of disposal 17,704 5,407 (194 ) Decrease   (increase) in investments in affiliates, net (1,000 ) (420 ) 32,664 Proceeds from   sale of investment   2,029 Decrease   (increase) in investment securities and other investments 907 (9,520 ) 61 Decrease   (increase) in restricted cash (2,936 ) 27,342 (35,797 ) Additions to   other intangible assets (1,551 ) (12,886 ) (8,826 ) Net cash used in   investing activities $ (873,173 ) $ (763,600 ) $ (792,315 ) See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
I-8 CABLEVISION SYSTEMS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (continued) Years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 (Dollars in thousands) 2006 2005 2004 Cash flows from   financing activities: Proceeds from bank debt $ 5,463,000 $ 554,614 $ 3,342,095 Repayment of bank debt (2,322,000 ) (1,192,614 ) (3,209,247 ) Redemption of senior subordinated notes and   debentures (263,125 )  (350,000 ) Issuance of senior notes  - 2,793,922 Proceeds from collateralized indebtedness 595,035 210,973 125,100 Repayment of collateralized indebtedness (548,867 ) (222,623 ) (121,239 ) Dividend distribution to common stockholders (2,840,780 )   Proceeds from derivative contracts 6,496 6,462  Settlement of derivative contracts (50,864 )   Redemption of preferred stock   (1,694,622 ) Issuance of common stock 15,334 13,942 7,270 Principal payments on capital lease obligations and   other debt (8,739 ) (11,956 ) (16,245 ) Deemed net capital contribution from shareholder  6,337  Additions to deferred financing and other costs (47,540 ) (70 ) (70,086 ) Distributions to minority partners (14,709 ) (9,659 ) (1,748 ) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities (16,759 ) (644,594 ) 805,200 Effect of   exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents  191 (191 ) Net increase   (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents from continuing operations 71,710 (484,959 ) 698,530 Cash flows of   discontinued operations: Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities 75,189 (64,535 ) (73,860 ) Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities 4,467 80,174 (84,816 ) Net change in cash classified in assets held for   sale  95,337 1,624 Net effect of discontinued operations on cash and   cash equivalents 79,656 110,976 (157,052 ) Cash and cash   equivalents at beginning of year 397,496 771,479 230,001 Cash and cash   equivalents at end of year $ 548,862 $ 397,496 $ 771,479 See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
I-9 CABLEVISION SYSTEMS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIALSTATEMENTS (Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts) NOTE 1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES The Company and Related Matters Cablevision Systems Corporation and its majority-owned subsidiaries (Cablevision or the Company) own and operate cable television systems and through its subsidiary, Rainbow Media Holdings LLC, have ownership interests in companies that produce and distribute national and regional entertainment and sports programming services, including Madison Square Garden, L.P. The Company also owns companies that provide advertising sales services for the cable television industry, provide telephone service, operate motion picture theaters, and through April30, 2005, provided direct broadcast satellite service. The Company classifies its business interests into three segments: Telecommunications Services, consisting principally of its video, high-speed data, Voice over Internet Protocol and its commercial data and voice services operations; Rainbow, consisting principally of interests in national and regional cable television programming networks, including AMC, IFC, WE tv (formerly WE:Womens Entertainment), fuse and the VOOM HD Networks; and Madison Square Garden, which owns and operates professional sports teams, regional cable television networks and an entertainment business.
Principles of Consolidation The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and its majority-owned subsidiaries and certain variable interest entities. All significant intercompany transactions and balances are eliminated in consolidation.
Revenue Recognition The Company recognizes video, high-speed data, Voice over Internet Protocol, and telephony revenues as the services are provided to subscribers. Installation revenue for our video, consumer high-speed data and Voice over Internet Protocol services is recognized as installations are completed, as direct selling costs have exceeded this revenue in all periods reported. The Company classifies amounts billed to its customers for franchise and regulatory fees as a component of revenue.
The Companys programming businesses recognize affiliate fees from cable system, direct broadcast satellite operators and telecommunications companies as the programming is provided. Advertising revenues are recognized when commercials are aired. In some advertising sales arrangements, the Companys programming businesses guarantee specified viewer ratings for their programming. For these types of transactions, a portion of such revenue is deferred if the guaranteed viewer ratings are not met and is subsequently recognized either when the Company provides the required additional advertising time, the guarantee obligation contractually expires or performance becomes remote.
Revenues derived from other sources are recognized when services are provided or events occur.
I-10 Multiple-Element Transactions If there is objective and reliable evidence of fair value for all elements of accounting in a multiple-element arrangement, the arrangement consideration is allocated to the separate elements of accounting based on relative fair values. There may be cases in which there is objective and reliable evidence of the fair value of undelivered items in an arrangement but no such evidence for the delivered items. In those cases, the Company utilizes the residual method to allocate the arrangement consideration. Under the residual method, the amount of consideration allocated to the delivered items equals the total arrangement consideration less the aggregate fair value of the undelivered items. In determining fair value, the Company refers to historical transactions or comparable cash transactions.
The Company may enter into affiliation agreements which are documented in one or more contracts; however negotiated contemporaneously. Amounts paid/received by the Company may differ from the amounts that would have been paid/received if such arrangements were negotiated separately. Judgments made in determining fair value impact the amount and period in which revenues are recognized over the term of the individual affiliation agreements.
Technical and Operating Expenses Costs of revenue related to sales of services are classified as technical and operating expenses in the accompanying statements of operations.
Programming Costs The Companys cable television business included in the Telecommunications Services segment has received, or may receive, incentives from programming distributors for carriage of the distributors programming. The Company recognizes these incentives as a reduction of programming costs in technical and operating expense, generally over the term of the programming agreement.
Programming Rights Rights acquired to broadcast various professional sports teams events and programming for exhibition on the Companys networks, are expensed over the contract or license period. Estimated future revenues are reviewed regularly and write-downs to net realizable value are made as required. Estimates of total gross revenues can change due to a variety of factors, including the level of advertising rates and subscriber fees. Accordingly, revenue estimates are reviewed periodically and amortization is adjusted as necessary.
Rights to feature film inventory acquired under license agreements along with the related obligations are recorded at the contract value when a license agreement is executed or the license period has begun, unless there is uncertainty with respect to either costs, acceptability or availability, then when the uncertainty is resolved. Costs are amortized to technical and operating expense on a straight-line basis over the respective license periods. The Company periodically reviews the programming usefulness of feature film inventory based on a series of factors, including ratings, type and quality of program material, standards and practices, and fitness of exhibition based on the programming of the individual programming service. If it is determined that substantially all of the films in a film license agreement have no future programming usefulness and will no longer be exploited, a write-off for the portion of the unamortized cost of the film license agreement that was attributed to those films is recognized.
See Note5 for a discussion of the Companys review of the programming usefulness of our feature film inventory and impairment charges.
I-11 Advertising Expenses Advertising costs are charged to expense when incurred. Advertising costs amounted to $222,839, $204,019 and $195,046 for the years ended December31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.
Restricted Cash Restricted cash at December31, 2006 and 2005 of $11,390 and $8,454, respectively, includes cash required to be set aside under operating agreements between Madison Square Garden and the Hartford Civic Center, Rentschler Field, and the National Hockey League, and for collateralized letters of credit entered into by Madison Square Garden.
Accounts Receivable The Company periodically assesses the adequacy of valuation allowances for uncollectible accounts receivable by evaluating the collectibility of outstanding receivables and general factors such as length of time individual receivables are past due, historical collection experience, and the economic and competitive environment.
Investments Investment securities and investment securities pledged as collateral are classified as trading securities and are stated at fair value with realized and unrealized holding gains and losses included in net income (loss).
The Companys interests in less than majority-owned entities in which the Company has the ability to exercise significant influence over the operating and financial policies of the investee are accounted for under the equity method. Equity method investments are recorded at original cost and adjusted to recognize the Companys proportionate share of the investees net income or losses, additional contributions made and distributions received and amortization of basis differences. The Company recognizes a loss if it is determined that an other than temporary decline in the value of the investment exists.
Long-Lived and Indefinite-Lived Assets Property, plant and equipment, including construction materials, are carried at cost, and include all direct costs and certain indirect costs associated with the construction of cable television transmission and distribution systems, and the costs of new product and subscriber installations. Equipment under capital leases is recorded at the present value of the total minimum lease payments. Depreciation on equipment is calculated on the straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the assets or, with respect to equipment under capital leases and leasehold improvements, amortized over the shorter of the lease term or the assets useful lives and reported in depreciation and amortization (including impairments) in the consolidated statements of operations.
Intangible assets established in connection with acquisitions consist of affiliation agreements and affiliation relationships, broadcast rights and other agreements (primarily cable television system programming agreements), season ticket holder relationships, suite holder contracts and relationships, advertising relationships, other intangibles and excess costs over fair value of net assets acquired. These intangible assets are amortized on a straight-line basis over their respective estimated useful lives. Excess costs over fair value of net assets acquired (goodwill) and the value of franchises, trademarks and I-12 certain other intangibles acquired in purchase business combinations which have indefinite useful lives are not amortized.
The Company reviews its long-lived assets (property, plant and equipment, and intangible assets subject to amortization that arose from business combinations accounted for under the purchase method) for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. If the sum of the expected cash flows, undiscounted and without interest, is less than the carrying amount of the asset, an impairment loss is recognized as the amount by which the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its fair value.
The Company evaluates the recoverability of its goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets annually or more frequently whenever events or circumstances indicate that the asset may be impaired. Goodwill impairment is determined using a two-step process. The first step of the goodwill impairment test is used to identify potential impairment by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount, including goodwill. If the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, the second step of the goodwill impairment test is performed to measure the amount of impairment loss, if any. The second step of the goodwill impairment test compares the implied fair value of the reporting units goodwill with the carrying amount of that goodwill. If the carrying amount of the reporting units goodwill exceeds the implied fair value of that goodwill, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to that excess. The implied fair value of goodwill is determined in the same manner as the amount of goodwill which would be recognized in a business combination.
The impairment test for other intangible assets not subject to amortization consists of a comparison of the fair value of the intangible asset with its carrying value. If the carrying value of the intangible asset exceeds its fair value, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to that excess.
Feature Film Obligations Amounts payable subsequent to December31, 2006 related to the license of feature film inventory are as follows: YearsEndingDecember31, 2007 $ 121,890 2008 84,152 2009 67,288 2010 48,988 2011 29,685 Thereafter 82,231 Deferred Carriage Fees Deferred carriage fees represent amounts principally paid or payable to cable system and/or satellite operators to guarantee carriage of certain programming services and are amortized as a reduction to revenue over the period of the related guarantee (1 to 15 years).
Deferred Financing Costs Costs incurred to obtain debt are deferred and amortized to interest expense using the straight-line method over the life of the related debt.
I-13 Income Taxes Income taxes are provided based upon the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No.109, Accounting for Income Taxes, which requires the asset and liability method of accounting for deferred income taxes and permits the recognition of deferred tax assets, subject to an ongoing assessment of realizability. The Company provides deferred taxes for the outside basis difference of its investment in partnerships.
Common Stock Each holder of Cablevision NY Group ClassA common stock has one vote per share while holders of Cablevision NY Group ClassB common stock have ten votes per share. Cablevision NY Group ClassB stockholders have the right to elect 75% of the members of the Companys Board of Directors while the Cablevision NY Group ClassA stockholders are entitled to elect the remaining 25% of the Companys board. In addition, ClassB stockholders entered into an agreement which has the effect of causing the voting power of these ClassB stockholders to be cast as a block. The Company has never paid dividends on its common stock, except for a special cash dividend of $10.00 per share paid on April24, 2006 to all Class A and Class B holders of record at the close of business on April18, 2006.
Cablevision and CSC Holdings, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Cablevision, may pay dividends on their capital stock only from surplus as determined under Delaware law. If dividends are paid on the Cablevision NY Group common stock, holders of the Cablevision NY Group ClassA common stock and Cablevision NY Group ClassB common stock are entitled to receive dividends, and other distributions in cash, stock or property, equally on a per share basis, except that stock dividends with respect to Cablevision NY Group ClassA common stock may be paid only with shares of Cablevision NY Group ClassA common stock and stock dividends with respect to Cablevision NY Group ClassB common stock may be paid only with shares of Cablevision NY Group ClassB common stock. Cablevisions and CSC Holdings senior notes and debentures and Rainbow National Services LLCs senior and senior subordinated notes restrict the amount of dividends and distributions in respect of any equity interests that can be made.
SharesOutstanding CNYGClassA CommonStock CNYGClassB CommonStock Balance at December 31, 2004 221,986,022 65,817,742 Conversion of   CNYG Class B common stock to CNYG ClassA common stock 1,657,478 (1,657,478 ) Employee and   non-employee director stock transactions 1,625,214  Balance at   December 31, 2005 225,268,714 64,160,264 Conversion of   CNYG Class B common stock to CNYG ClassA common stock 423,450 (423,450 ) Employee and   non-employee director stock transactions 2,951,404  Balance at December 31,   2006 228,643,568 63,736,814 Special Dividend Payment On April7, 2006, the Board of Directors of the Company declared a special cash dividend of $10.00 per share on each outstanding share of its Cablevision NY Group ClassA common stock and Cablevision NY Group ClassB common stock. The dividend was paid on April24, 2006 to holders of record at the close of business on April18, 2006. The dividend was paid from the proceeds of a distribution of approximately $3,000,000 held in cash and cash equivalents from CSC Holdings to Cablevision. The I-14 CSC Holdings distribution was funded from the proceeds of its termB loan facility which closed on March29, 2006 (see Note9). The dividend payment on all outstanding shares of Cablevision common stock and certain common stock equivalents amounted to $2,834,649. In addition, up to $126,838 representing $10.00 for each outstanding restricted share and each stock appreciation right and stock option vested as of December31, 2004, would be payable when, and if, the restrictions lapse on each restricted share and when, and if, such stock appreciation rights and stock options are exercised. The Company recorded a decrease in additional paid in capital of $1,326,227 and an increase in accumulated deficit of $1,581,709 in connection with the payment of the special dividend on April24, 2006.
Income (Loss) Per Common Share Basic and diluted net loss per common share are computed by dividing net loss by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the period. Potential dilutive common shares are not included in the diluted computation as their effect would be antidilutive.
Basic net income per share is computed by dividing net income by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the period. Diluted net income per share is computed by dividing net income by the weighted average number of common shares and common stock equivalents outstanding during the period.
Because the Company generated a loss from continuing operations for the years ended December31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, the outstanding common stock equivalents during each respective period had no dilutive effect.
In the second quarter of 2004, the Company implemented Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) Issue No.03-6, Participating Securities and the Two-Class Method under FASB Statement No.128. EITF03-6 requires convertible participating securities to be included in the computation of earnings per share using the two-class method. The Companys SeriesA Exchangeable Participating Preferred Stock was considered a convertible participating security. When applicable, basic and diluted earnings per share would be restated to reflect the impact of utilizing the two-class method required by EITF03-6. The implementation of EITF03-6 had no impact on earnings per share for the year ended December31, 2004, and subsequent to August 2004, the Company has not had any convertible participating securities outstanding.
Comprehensive Income (Loss) Comprehensive income (loss), which is reported on the accompanying consolidated statements of shareholders deficiency consists of net income (loss) and other gains and losses affecting shareholders deficiency or attributed net assets that, under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), are excluded from net income (loss). These components of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) consist primarily of minimum pension liability adjustments, net of taxes and in 2005 and 2004 foreign currency translation gains (losses), net of taxes.
In 2006, 2005 and 2004, the accumulated benefit obligation of the Companys defined benefit plans exceeded the fair value of plan assets. As a result, the Company recorded a non-cash charge (benefit) to accumulated comprehensive loss, net of taxes, of $1,484, $(182) and $2,792, respectively, as required by SFAS No.87 Employers Accounting for Pensions (Statement No.87). Additionally, as of December31, 2006, the Company adopted the recognition and disclosure provisions of SFAS No.158, Employers Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans (Statement I-15 No.158) as described in Note15. As a result of adopting Statement No.158 in 2006, the Company recognized an additional $6,904, net of taxes, which was also charged to accumulated other comprehensive loss, net of taxes.
Share-Based Compensation On January 1, 2006, the Company adopted SFAS No. 123R, Share-Based Payment (Statement No. 123R), that addresses the accounting for share-based payment transactions in which an enterprise receives employee services in exchange for either equity instruments of the enterprise or liabilities that are based on the fair value of the enterprises equity instruments or that may be settled by the issuance of such equity instruments. Statement No. 123R eliminates the ability to account for share-based compensation transactions, as the Company formerly did, using the intrinsic value method as prescribed by Accounting Principles Board (APB) Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees, and generally requires that such transactions be accounted for using a fair-value-based method and recognize such fair value of share-based payments as expenses in the consolidated statement of operations.
The Company adopted Statement No. 123R using the modified prospective method as of January 1, 2006. The Companys consolidated financial statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2006 reflect the impact of adopting Statement No. 123R. In accordance with the modified prospective method, the consolidated financial statements for prior periods have not been restated to reflect, and do not include, the impact of Statement No. 123R (See note 16).
Share-based compensation expense recognized during the period is based on the fair value of the portion of share-based payment awards that is ultimately expected to vest. Share-based compensation expense recognized in the consolidated statement of operations during the year ended December 31, 2006 included compensation expense for share-based payment awards granted prior to, but not yet vested, as of December 31, 2005 based on the grant date fair value estimated in accordance with the pro forma provisions of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123, Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation (Statement No. 123). As share-based compensation expense recognized in the statements of operations for the year ended December 31, 2006 is based on awards ultimately expected to vest, it has been reduced for estimated forfeitures. Statement No. 123R requires forfeitures to be estimated at the time of grant and revised, if necessary, in subsequent periods if actual forfeitures differ from those estimates. In the pro forma information required under Statement No. 123 for the periods prior to January 1, 2006, the Company accounted for forfeitures as they occurred.
Reclassifications Certain reclassifications have been made to the 2005 financial statements to conform to the 2006 presentation. In addition, the operating results of Fox Sports Net Chicago have been classified as discontinued operations in the consolidated statements of operations and cash flows for all periods presented.
Cash Flows For purposes of the consolidated statements of cash flows, the Company considers short-term investments with a maturity at date of purchase of three months or less to be cash equivalents.
During 2006, 2005 and 2004, the Companys non-cash investing and financing activities and other supplemental data were as follows: YearsEndedDecember31, 2006 2005 2004 Non-Cash   Investing and Financing Activities : Continuing   Operations Acquisition of the 40% minority interest in certain   Regional Programming Partners entities in exchange for the Companys   Interests in Fox Sports Net Ocho, Fox Sports Net Florida, National Sports   Partners and National Advertising Partners $  $ 604,080 $  Notes payable, including interest, contributed by   News Corporation to Regional Programming Partners for no consideration  152,907  Capital lease obligations 11,751 180 2,952 Asset retirement obligations 136 10,870  Dividends payable on equity classified share-based   awards 67,156   Leasehold improvements paid by landlord 1,960   Investment in affiliate 1,294   Redemption of collateralized indebtedness with   restricted cash and related prepaid forward contracts  116,544  Redemption of collateralized indebtedness with   related prepaid forward contracts and stock 290,943 247,647  Redemption of collateralized indebtedness with   related prepaid forward contracts 31,385 43,604  Redemption of collateralized indebtedness associated   with AT&T Wireless shares with restricted cash, net of related forward   contract   105,000 Receipt of restricted cash for AT&T Wireless   shares   213,647 Rights payments offset with repayment of a note   receivable  40,000  Discontinued   Operations Make whole payment obligation, including interest,   to Loral 50,898   I-16 SupplementalData: Cash interest   paidcontinuing operations $ 831,019 $ 698,184 $ 636,277 Cash interest   paiddiscontinued operations 15 90 314 Income taxes   paid (refunded), netcontinuing operations 11,184 (4,005 ) 6,952 Income taxes paid   (refunded), netdiscontinued operations  18 (539 ) Derivative Financial Instruments The Company accounts for derivative financial instruments in accordance with SFAS No.133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, as amended (Statement No.133). Statement No.133 requires that an entity recognize all derivatives, as defined, as either assets or liabilities measured at fair value. The Company uses derivative instruments to manage its exposure to market risks from changes in certain equity prices and interest rates and does not hold or issue derivative instruments for speculative or trading purposes. These derivative instruments are not designated as hedges, and changes in the fair values of these derivatives are recognized in earnings as gains (losses) on derivative contracts.
Concentrations of Credit Risk Financial instruments that may potentially subject the Company to a concentration of credit risk consist primarily of cash and cash equivalents and trade receivables. Cash is invested in money market funds, bank time deposits or in obligations of the U.S. Treasury. The Companys cash investments are placed with money market funds or financial institutions that have received the highest rating awarded by Standard & Poors and Moodys Investors Services. The Company did not have a single customer that represented 10% or more of its consolidated net revenues for the years ended December31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively, or 10% or more of its consolidated net trade receivables at December31, 2006 and 2005, respectively.
Use of Estimates in Preparation of Financial Statements The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.
Commitments and Contingencies Liabilities for loss contingencies arising from claims, assessments, litigation, fines and penalties and other sources are recorded when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the assessment can be reasonably estimated.
Recently Adopted Accounting Standards Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans In September 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Statement No.158 which requires companies to recognize in their statement of financial position an asset for a postretirement benefit plans overfunded status or a liability for a plans underfunded status and to measure a plans assets I-17 and its obligations that determine its funded status as of the end of the companys fiscal year. Additionally, Statement No.158 requires companies to recognize changes in the funded status of a defined benefit postretirement plan in the year in which the changes occur and to report those changes in comprehensive income (loss). The provisions of Statement No.158 have two separate effective dates. The provision of Statement No.158 that requires a company (with a calendar year-end) to recognize the funded status of its pension plan, and the disclosure requirements, was effective as of December31, 2006, and the provision of Statement No.158 that requires a company (with a calendar year-end) to measure plan assets and benefit obligations as of the date of its fiscal year-end balance sheet is effective as of December31, 2008. See Note15 for a discussion of the impact of the Companys adoption of Statement No.158.
Accounting Changes and Error Corrections In June 2005, the FASB issued SFAS No.154, Accounting Changes and Error Corrections - a replacement of APB Opinion No.20 and FASB Statement No.3 (Statement No.154). Statement No.154 applies to all voluntary changes in accounting principle, and changes the requirements for accounting for and reporting of a change in accounting principle. It requires retrospective application to prior periods financial statements of a voluntary change in accounting principle unless it is impracticable. APB Opinion No.20 previously required that most voluntary changes in accounting principle be I-18 recognized by including in net income of the period of the change the cumulative effect of changing to the new accounting principle. Statement No.154 requires that a change in method of calculating depreciation, amortization, or depletion for long-lived nonfinancial assets be accounted for as a change in accounting estimate that is affected by a change in accounting principle. APB Opinion No.20 previously required that such a change be reported as a change in accounting principle. Statement No.154 was effective for accounting changes and corrections of errors made by the Company beginning January1, 2006.
Limited Partnerships In June 2005, the EITF reached a consensus on Issue No.04-5, Determining Whether a General Partner, or the General Partners as a Group, Controls a Limited Partnership or Similar Entity When the Limited Partners Have Certain Rights (EITF No.04-5). EITF No.04-5 provides guidance in assessing when a general partner should consolidate its investment in a limited partnership or similar entity. The provisions of EITF No.04-5 were required to be applied beginning June30, 2005 by general partners of all newly formed limited partnerships and for existing limited partnerships for which the partnership agreements are modified subsequent to June30, 2005 and the provisions of EITF No.04-5 were effective for general partners in all other limited partnerships beginning January1, 2006. EITF No.04-5 did not have any impact on the Companys financial position or results of operations upon adoption.
NOTE 2. STAFF ACCOUNTING BULLETIN NO. 108 On September13, 2006, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No.108 (SABNo.108), Considering the Effects of Prior Year Misstatements when Quantifying Misstatements in Current Year Financial Statements. SABNo.108 is effective for the Companys year ended December31, 2006. The primary concepts set forth in SABNo.108 are as follows:  Registrants should quantify errors using both the rollover approach and iron curtain approach (collectively referred to as the dual approach) and evaluate whether either approach results in quantifying a misstatement that, when all relevant quantitative and qualitative factors are considered, is material. The rollover approach focuses primarily on the impact of a misstatement on the income statement, including the reversing effect of prior year misstatements. Because the focus is on the income statement, the rollover approach can lead to the accumulation of misstatements in the balance sheet that may become material. The iron curtain approach focuses primarily on the effect of correcting for the accumulated misstatement as of the balance sheet date, essentially correcting the balance sheet with less emphasis on the reversing effects of prior year errors on the income statement.
If correcting an error in the current year materially affects the current year but the item was not material in any prior year, the prior year financial statements should be corrected, even though such revision previously was and continues to be immaterial to the prior year financial statements. However, in this circumstance, correcting prior year financial statements for immaterial errors does not require amending previously filed financial statements - the correction can be made the next time the prior year financial statements are filed.
For purposes of evaluating materiality under the iron curtain approach, all uncorrected errors on the balance sheet are presumed to be reversed into the statement of operations in the current period even though some or all of the uncorrected difference may relate to periods prior to the latest statement of operations presented and, therefore, would only impact opening accumulated earnings (deficit). If the amount of the uncorrected difference(s) is determined to be material to the current period statement of operations, then such amount would be deemed material and would have to be corrected for in the manner set forth above.
I-19 SABNo. 108 provides for the following transition guidance in the initial period of adoption:  Restatement of prior years is not required if the registrant properly applied its previous approach, either rollover or iron curtain approach, so long as all relevant qualitative factors were considered.
The SEC Staff will not object if a registrant records a one-time cumulative effect adjustment to correct errors existing in prior years that previously had been considered immaterial - quantitatively and qualitatively - based on the appropriate use of the registrants previous approach.
If prior years are not restated, the cumulative effect adjustment is recorded in opening accumulated earnings (deficit) as of the beginning of the fiscal year of adoption (e.g. January1, 2006 for a calendar year company).
Historically, the Company has evaluated uncorrected differences utilizing the rollover approach. The Company believes its prior period assessments of uncorrected differences utilizing the rollover approach and the conclusions reached regarding its quantitative and qualitative assessments of materiality of such uncorrected differences, individually and in the aggregate, were appropriate. In accordance with the guidance set forth in SAB No.108, the Company has corrected certain identified historical uncorrected balance sheet differences, which arose prior to January1, 2006, as a cumulative effect adjustment to opening accumulated deficit as of January1, 2006 in accordance with the dual approach set forth in SAB No.108 as discussed above. The requirement to adopt the guidance set forth in SAB No.108, including the estimated impact, was initially disclosed in the Companys Form10-Q for the quarter ended June30, 2006.
The following table summarizes the impact of applying the guidance set forth in SAB No.108 on the Companys 2006 opening accumulated deficit balance: AdditionalIncome(Expense) PeriodinwhichtheUncorrectedDifferencesOriginated Cumulative Adjustment Uncorrected Recordedasof Differencesas YearsEndedDecember31, January1, of December31, 2003 2004 2005 2006to Accumulated Deficit Excess accrual   balances and other items, net of taxes(a) $ 103,865 $ 531 $ (1,952 ) $ 102,444 Tax adjustment   relating to disability insurance(b) 1,858 (1,497 ) 9,734 10,095 Rent expense,   net of taxes(c) (6,756 ) (914 ) (766 ) (8,436 ) Revenue related   to promotional rates, net of taxes(d) 311 5,325 4,845 10,481 Video on demand   revenue, net of related expenses and taxes(e) 791 45 54 890 Programmer audit   accruals, net of taxes(f) 216 1,348 373 1,937 Disability and   life insurance accruals, net of taxes(g) 1,564 389 254 2,207 Goodwill   amortization, net of taxes(h) 2,076  (26 ) 2,050 Impact on   accumulated deficit $ 103,925 $ 5,227 $ 12,516 $ 121,668 (a) In periods prior to 2000, the Company had determined that certain accounts payable and accrued liability account balances (including accruals for programming costs, non-income based taxes, workers compensation, franchise fees, I-20 health and dental, and pensions, among others) which had accumulated over a number of years to an aggregate $108,646, net of taxes, as of December31, 2003, were not supportable as liabilities that the Company would be required to satisfy. These amounts were substantially frozen as of December31, 1999. Historically, the Company had concluded that such prior year uncorrected differences were quantitatively and qualitatively immaterial to the Companys prior year financial statements using the rollover method. This adjustment also includes $2,190, net of taxes, as of December 31, 2003, representing an excess reserve for unreturned analog converters that was not adjusted in prior periods to reflect actual losses and $(3,677), net of taxes, as of December31, 2003, relating to unreconciled cash receipts. Additionally, this adjustment includes goodwill aggregating $3,292, net of taxes, as of December31, 2003, and $1,994, net of taxes, for the year ended December 31, 2005, relating primarily to businesses that were sold where such goodwill was not included in their cost basis at the time of their sale for purposes of computing the associated gain on sale.
(b) In calculating the Companys tax provision for periods through December 31, 2005, the Company incorrectly treated tax-exempt disability insurance proceeds as taxable and non-deductible disability insurance premiums as tax deductible with regard to disability insurance arrangements associated with players of certain of the Companys professional sports teams.
(c) The Company historically recorded rent expense related to certain of its operating leases based on the contractual terms of the respective lease agreements instead of on a straight-line basis over the lease term as required by U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. This adjustment represents the impact of correcting the recognition of rent expense to the straight-line basis.
(d) The Company determined that it did not recognize in the appropriate period a portion of revenue earned related to certain cable television customers with promotional rates. This revenue was recognized when the promotional rates expired, generally occurring one year after the promotion commenced. This adjustment represents the revenue that should have been recognized in the respective periods when the services were provided, net of related tax effects.
(e) Prior to 2006, the Company recorded certain revenue from video on demand services as the services were billed to the customer instead of when the services were provided. Such revenue was historically recorded in the subsequent months billing cycle. This adjustment reflects the recognition of revenue, net of related expenses and taxes, which should have been recorded in the respective periods when the services were provided.
(f) The Companys contracts with programming content providers typically allow for periodic audits of the programming payments made by the Company to these providers. The Company records an accrual for a loss contingency related to the associated potential underpayment of programming fees if such amounts are deemed probable and estimable. Based on the Companys review of this accrual balance, it determined that the accrual was overstated in previous years based upon the occurrence of historical events. This adjustment reflects the reduction of the accrual balance, net of taxes, in the appropriate periods.
(g) The Company determined that its accrual for disability and life insurance premiums for one of the Companys segments was based on an estimate that was not adjusted on a quarterly basis to reflect actual premiums paid. This adjustment reflects the reduction of the accrual, net of taxes, for the respective periods.
(h) In 2002, the Company inappropriately amortized goodwill of $2,076, net of taxes. This adjustment reflects the reversal of the amortization recognized in 2002. U.S. generally accepted accounting principles required the Company to cease amortization of goodwill effective January 1, 2002.
I-21 The following table summarizes the impact of applying the guidance in SAB No.108 related to the adjustments described above on the Companys 2006 opening accumulated deficit by segment: AdditionalIncome(Expense) CumulativeUncorrectedDifferencesasofJanuary1,2006 Tele- communications Rainbow MadisonSquare Garden Other Total Excess accrual   balances and other items $ 70,045 $ 22,837 $ 4,792 $ 29,737 $ 127,411 Rent expense (10,040 ) (1,380 )  (2,920 ) (14,340 ) Revenue related   to promotional rates 17,768    17,768 Video on demand   revenue, net of related expenses 1,509    1,509 Programmer audit   accruals 3,284    3,284 Disability and   life insurance accruals  3,819   3,819 Goodwill   amortization   3,474  3,474 $ 82,566 $ 25,276 $ 8,266 $ 26,817 142,925 Income tax   expense* (31,352 ) Tax adjustment   relating to disability insurance 10,095 Impact on accumulated   deficit $ 121,668 * The income tax expense impact presented above is less than the amount that would be derived by applying the statutory rate to the aggregate pre-tax adjustment due to an income tax benefit of $28,553 resulting from a decrease in the required amount of the valuation allowance at the beginning of 2002due to thedecrease in deferred tax assets recognized in connection with the adjustments related to the excess accrual balances. The valuation allowance was eliminated later in 2002 in connection with the application of purchase accounting associated with an acquisition.
I-22 The following table summarizes the impact of applying the cumulative effect adjustments discussed above to the Companys consolidated balance sheet, including the impact on accumulated deficit, as of December31, 2005, as recognized effective January1, 2006: Cumulative Effect Adjustment Recordedin Accumulated Deficitasof January1,2006 Increase (Decrease) Accounts receivable,   trade $ 14,570 Deferred tax asset (10,788 ) Total current   assets 3,782 Property, plant and   equipment 3,714 Investment in   affiliates 341 Deferred tax asset (25,662 ) Intangible assets(1) 45,641 Total assets 27,816 Accounts payable (20,639 ) Accrued employee   related costs (15,515 ) Other accrued expenses (102,844 ) Deferred tax liability 29,649 Total current   liabilities (109,349 ) Deferred tax   liabilities 1,470 Other long-term   liabilities 13,732 Minority interests 295 Total   liabilities (93,852 ) Accumulated deficit (aggregate cumulative effect adjustment, net of   taxes) $ (121,668 ) (1) Includes the impact on previously recorded goodwill related to certain prior period purchase accounting transactions which result from the adjustment to deferred tax assets related to the reversal of the excess accrual balances discussed in footnote (a) above and the item discussed in footnote (h) above.
NOTE 3. TRANSACTIONS 2005 Transactions Regional Programming Partners Restructuring In April 2005, the Company and News Corporation restructured their ownership of Regional Programming Partners. Prior to the April 2005 transaction, Regional Programming Partners was owned 60% by the Company and 40% by News Corporation. As a result of the restructuring, the Company now owns 100% of Madison Square Garden, 100% of Fox Sports Net Chicago (which was shut down in June 2006) and 50% of Fox Sports Net New England and therefore, no portion of the results of operations of these businesses is allocated to minority interests after the acquisition. In connection with the restructuring, these businesses extended the terms of their long-term affiliation agreements with National Sports Partners and their advertising representation agreements with National Advertising Partners.
In connection with its December 2003 purchase of the interests that it did not own in Fox Sports Net Chicago and Fox Sports Net Bay Area, subsidiaries of Regional Programming Partners issued promissory I-23 notes in the aggregate amount of $150,000 to News Corporation. As part of the restructuring, those promissory notes and accrued interest of $2,907 were contributed by News Corporation to Regional Programming Partners for no additional consideration and were cancelled without any payment being made on them.
National Sports Partners and National Advertising Partners were owned 50% by the Company and 50% by News Corporation. As a result of the restructuring, the Company no longer owns any interest in National Sports Partners, National Advertising Partners, Fox Sports Net Ohio or Fox Sports Net Florida.
The Company and News Corporation continue to own 60% and 40%, respectively, of Fox Sports Net Bay Area through a separate partnership. The Company continues to manage that network. In connection with the restructuring, Fox Sports Net Bay Area extended the terms of its long-term affiliation agreement with National Sports Partners and its advertising representation agreement with National Advertising Partners.
The Company has accounted for this exchange in accordance with APB Opinion No.29, Accounting for Nonmonetary Transactions and, accordingly, the Company recorded the transaction with News Corporation at fair value at the date of the restructuring. The Company recorded a gain in discontinued operations of $266,810, net of taxes, in connection with the transfer of the Companys interests in Fox Sports Net Ohio and Fox Sports Net Florida. The Company recorded a gain in continuing operations of $66,558 in connection with the transfer of National Sports Partners and National Advertising Partners. In addition, the excess of the net book value of the assets acquired over the purchase price of $94,320 was allocated to specific assets and liabilities based on fair values as follows: UsefulLife Land and   development rights Indefinite $ 37,573 Property and   equipment, net 2   to 27.5 years 12,396 Amortizable   intangible assets: Affiliation agreements 4   years 17,951 Affiliation relationships 24   years 85,824 Advertiser relationships 7   years 6,004 Season ticket holder relationships 12   to 15 years 73,124 Suite holder contracts and relationships 3   to 11 years 21,167 Indefinite-lived   intangible assets: Trademarks 53,880 Sports franchises 96,215 Excess costs over fair value of net assets acquired (460,853 ) Other assets and   liabilities, net 9,399 Unfavorable   contracts (47,000 ) Net step-down to   historical carrying values $ (94,320 ) The Regional Programming Partners restructuring transaction was substantially tax deferred.
I-24 The unaudited pro forma revenue, loss from continuing operations, net income (loss), loss per share from continuing operations and net income (loss) per share of the Company, as if the Companys acquisition of the interests in entities exchanged with News Corporation had occurred on January1, 2005 and 2004, are as follows: YearsEndedDecember31, 2005 2004 Revenues $ 5,172,478 $ 4,632,537 Loss from   continuing operations $ (137,388 ) $ (510,564 ) Net income   (loss) $ 79,465 $ (703,476 ) Basic and   diluted loss per share from continuing operations $ (0.49 ) $ (1.78 ) Basic and diluted net   income (loss) per share $ 0.28 $ (2.45 ) Agreements with EchoStar In April 2005, subsidiaries of Cablevision and CSC Holdings entered into agreements with EchoStar Communications Corporation (EchoStar) relating to the launch and operation of the business of Rainbow HD Holdings LLC, the Companys VOOM HD Networks high-definition television programming service. This transaction closed in November 2005. Under those arrangements, EchoStar was initially distributing a portion of the VOOM HD Networks programming service and, beginning in 2006, began carrying 15 of the channels included in the programming service. In connection with the arrangements, EchoStar was issued a 20% interest in Rainbow HD Holdings, the Companys subsidiary owning the VOOM HD Networks, and that 20% interest will not be diluted until $500,000 in cash has been invested in Rainbow HD Holdings equity by the Company.
Under the terms of the affiliation arrangements with EchoStar covering the VOOM HD Networks for a 15 year term, if Rainbow HD Holdings fails to spend $100,000 per year, up to a maximum of $500,000 in the aggregate, on its service offerings, EchoStar may terminate the affiliation agreement. The Company has the right to terminate the affiliation agreement if the VOOM HD Networks are discontinued in the future. The agreements resulted in a non-monetary exchange whereby the Company provided EchoStar a 20% interest in Rainbow HD Holdings in exchange for deferred carriage fees. Accordingly, the Company recorded deferred carriage fees for the fair value of the 20% interest in Rainbow HD Holdings LLC surrendered of $18,101, which resulted in a gain on the issuance of members interest by a subsidiary of $10,397 (net of transaction costs of $295 and taxes of $7,409). Since Rainbow HD Holdings LLC is a start-up company, the gain was recorded as an increase to paid-in capital.
2004 Transactions DTV Norwich In January 2004, Rainbow DBS Company, LLC, (Rainbow DBS) an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, invested $100 for a 49% interest in DTV Norwich, an entity that acquired licenses at auction from the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) to provide multichannel video distribution and data service (MVDDS) in 46 metropolitan areas in the United States.
In connection with the equity investment, the Company loaned DTV Norwich an additional $84,600 for the acquisition of these licenses (the DTV Norwich Transaction). Under the terms of the promissory note with DTV Norwich, the loan was forgiven when the FCC granted the MVDDS licenses to DTV Norwich on July27, 2004 and September23, 2004.
I-25 Rainbow DBS also agreed to a put/call option with the other investor in DTV Norwich. Rainbow DBS had a call option to purchase an additional 41% membership interest in DTV Norwich at an exercise price of $4,230. Rainbow DBS exercised its call option on October29, 2004. Rainbow DBS received FCC approval to acquire the 41% membership interest which gave Rainbow DBS control of this entity. The other investor has the right, for ten years, to put its remaining 10% interest to Rainbow DBS at fair value to be determined by a process involving independent valuation experts.
Pursuant to FASB Interpretation No.46R (FIN No.46R), Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, this entity was consolidated with the Company as of the date of the transaction, January 2004, since it did not have sufficient equity to demonstrate that it could finance its activities without additional subordinated financial support. The acquired licenses were recorded as other intangible assets and were deemed to have indefinite lives. Since this variable interest entity is not considered a business pursuant to FIN No.46R, the excess of the fair value of the consideration paid and the newly consolidated non-controlling interest over the fair value of the newly consolidated identifiable assets, of $7,436 net of taxes of $5,384, was recorded as an extraordinary loss. In connection with the Companys decision in December 2004 to seek strategic alternatives for the Rainbow DBS business, the Company reduced the carrying value of the acquired licenses to their estimated fair value of $6,113 based on available MVDDS auction value information.
NOTE 4. RESTRUCTURING CHARGES In December 2001, the Company recorded restructuring charges of $56,442 (including $13,720 for discontinued operations) which included expenses of $21,018 (including $9,403 for discontinued operations) associated with the elimination of approximately 600 positions, primarily in corporate, administrative and infrastructure functions across various business units of the Company, and estimated expenses of $35,424 (including $4,317 for discontinued operations) associated with facility realignment and other related costs.
In 2002, the Company announced a new operating plan and restructuring which included the closing of 26 retail electronics store locations, the consolidation of customer service call centers, and the elimination of certain staff positions. Additionally, the Company reached an agreement with its supplier of set top boxes which reduced the Companys purchase commitments for set top boxes from $378,500 in 2002, $378,500 in 2003, and $567,750 in 2004 to a total remaining commitment of $87,500 in 2002 and nothing thereafter and required the Company to make certain other cash payments aggregating $50,000 plus interest on a portion of such amount with respect to, among other things, a license for certain software (valued at $17,500 based on an independent appraisal). In connection with this plan, the Company recorded restructuring charges of $85,965 (including $11,553 for discontinued operations) which included $22,072 (including $3,642 for discontinued operations) associated with the elimination of approximately 3,000 positions, $31,393 (including $7,911 for discontinued operations) associated with facility realignment and other related costs and $32,500 associated with the reduction in required digital set top box commitments.
In 2003, the Company eliminated staff positions and incurred severance costs aggregating $6,111.
During 2006, 2005 and 2004, the Company recorded restructuring charges aggregating $392, $1,024 and $4,756, respectively, associated with the elimination of certain positions in various business units of the Company and facility realignment costs.
At December31, 2006, the restructuring liability of $4,201 was classified as a current liability in the consolidated balance sheet.
I-26 The following table summarizes the restructuring liability, net of related sublease amounts, at December31, 2006: 2001 Plan 2001 Plan 2002 Plan 2002 Plan 2003 Plan 2004 Plan 2005 Plan 2006 Plan Employee Severance Facility Realignment andOther Costs (b) Employee Severance Facility Realignment andOther Costs (a)(b) Employee Severance Employee Severance Employee Severance Facility Realignment Balance at   December31, 2003 $ 3 $ 19,212 $ 207 $ 39,623 $ 2,258 $  $  $  Additional charges   (credits)  (5,589 ) (68 ) (172 ) 238 4,756   Payments (3 ) (7,242 ) (139 ) (9,218 ) (2,418 ) (3,818 )   Balance at   December31, 2004  6,381  30,233 78 938   Additional   charges (credits)  (1,480 )  (578 ) 234 263 1,024  Payments  (3,114 )  (28,857 ) (312 ) (1,201 ) (1,001 )  Balance at   December31, 2005  1,787  798   23  Additional charges   (credits)  (4,521 )  525   (23 ) 392 Payments and accrual of   sublease receivable, net  2,734  (1,323 )    (290 ) Accrued restructuring balance at December31, 2006 $  $  $  $  $  $  $  $ 102 (a) In August 2005, the Company made a $25,000 payment to satisfy its required commitment with a supplier associated with the 2002 restructuring plan.
(b) For the year ended December31, 2006, the Company recorded restructuring credits of $3,996 relating primarily to changes to the Companys previous estimates recorded in connection with the 2001 and 2002 facility realignment. Based on the restructuring credits recorded and payments made by the Company, the restructuring liability relating to these plans, net of sublease amounts, as of December 31, 2006 was zero.
In addition to the facility realignment charges of $392 in 2006 which are expected to be completed by June 2009, the Company recorded restructuring charges of $143 associated with the elimination of approximately ten positions at a programming business within the Rainbow segment (which was fully paid as of December 31, 2006).
I-27 The cumulative amount of restructuring charges incurred by the Company for continuing operations for each of the restructuring plans are as follows: 2001 Plan 2002 Plan 2003 Plan 2004 Plan 2005 Plan 2006 Plan Total Employee severance $ 15,108 $ 19,586 $ 6,583 $ 5,019 $ 1,001 $ 143 $ 47,440 Facility realignment and other costs 23,234 54,545    392 78,171 Cumulative restructuring charges recognized as of   December31, 2006 $ 38,342 $ 74,131 $ 6,583 $ 5,019 $ 1,001 $ 535 $ 125,611 NOTE 5. IMPAIRMENT CHARGES In connection with the Companys Board of Directors decision in December 2004 to suspend pursuing the spin-off of its Rainbow Media Enterprises subsidiary and instead to pursue strategic alternatives for its Rainbow DBS business, the Company performed a review of its assets for recoverability. The Company recorded an impairment charge of $90,540 included in depreciation and amortization expense relating to long-lived assets and other indefinite-lived intangible assets and a charge of $75,805 included in technical and operating expenses representing the write down of certain film and programming contracts of the VOOM HD Networks within the Rainbow segment. In addition, the Company recorded an impairment charge of $155,415 reflecting the excess of the carrying value over the estimated fair value of long-term assets and goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets and a charge of $33,052 representing the write-off of equipment inventory and deposits which have been recorded in discontinued operations.
The impairment charges related to film and programming contracts, equipment inventory and deposits are based on net realizable value and the impairment charges related to goodwill, intangible and long-lived assets are based on estimates of fair value of those assets.
The Company recorded impairment charges of $2,394, included in depreciation and amortization, relating to certain other long-lived assets deemed impaired within its theater operations and Rainbow segment in 2004.
In 2005, the Company recorded impairment charges of $7,697, included in depreciation and amortization, primarily for certain long-lived assets and intangibles within its Rainbow segment and theater operations.
During 2006, the Company recorded impairment charges of $2,104, included in depreciation and amortization, primarily for certain long-lived assets and intangibles within its theater operations and PVI Virtual Media business.
As part of its periodic review of expected programming usefulness, the Company recorded an impairment loss of $1,640, $663 and $297 in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Such amounts represent the write-off of the carrying value of certain film and programming contracts of the Companys Rainbow segment and are included in technical and operating expense.
In June 2006, the operations of the Fox Sports Net Chicago programming business were shut down. In connection with the shut down, the Company recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $5,121 which was classified in discontinued operations.
I-28 NOTE 6.
DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS AND ASSETS AND LIABILITIES HELD FOR SALE The operating results of Fox Sports Net Ohio and Fox Sports Net Florida (in connection with the Regional Programming Partners restructuring in April 2005), Fox Sports Net Chicago and the Rainbow DBS satellite distribution business (in connection with the Board of Directors authorization to shut down the business), net of taxes, have been classified in the consolidated statements of operations as discontinued operations for all periods presented. Operating results of discontinued operations for the years ended December31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 are summarized below: YearEndedDecember31,2006 FoxSportsNet Chicago(a) RainbowDBS Satellite Distribution Business(b) Other Total Revenues, net $ 79,204 $  $  $ 79,204 Income (loss)   before income taxes $ 72,985 $ (56,741 ) $ (62 ) $ 16,182 Income tax   benefit (expense) (32,030 ) 23,269 25 (8,736 ) Net income (loss) $ 40,955 $ (33,472 ) $ (37 ) $ 7,446 (a) Revenues, net includes $77,996 representing the collection in June 2006 of affiliate revenue from a cable affiliate, including $71,396 relating to periods prior to 2006, that had not been previously recognized due to a contractual dispute. The underlying contract was terminated in June 2006 and no further payments will be received under this contract.
(b) Income (loss) before income taxes includes the recognition of the Make Whole Payment obligation due to Loral Space and Communications Holding Corporation (see discussion below).
YearEndedDecember31,2005 FoxSports NetChicago FoxSportsNet OhioandFox SportsNet Florida RainbowDBS Satellite Distribution Business Other Total Revenues, net $ 3,433 $ 40,018 $ 8,776 $  $ 52,227 Income (loss) before income taxes $ 2,743 $ 466,460 $ (102,983 ) $ 4,405 $ 370,625 Income tax benefit (expense) (1,123 ) (192,998 ) 42,151 (1,802 ) (153,772 ) Net income (loss) including gain on   restructuring of Regional Programming Partners of $266,810, and other gain of   $2,618, net of taxes $ 1,620 $ 273,462 $ (60,832 ) $ 2,603 $ 216,853 For the year ended December31, 2005, the Company recorded a gain, net of taxes, of $2,521, primarily representing the transfer of the Companys ownership interest in a subsidiary of PVI to PVIs minority partner for the minority partners remaining ownership interest in PVI. In addition, the Company recorded a gain, net of taxes, of $97 for the year ended December31, 2005 that related primarily to a reduction of health and welfare expenses in connection with the transfer of the retail electronics business.
I-29 YearEndedDecember31,2004 FoxSports NetChicago FoxSportsNet OhioandFox SportsNet Florida Rainbow DBS Satellite Distribution Business Other Total Revenues, net $ 117,500 $ 168,085 $ 14,742 $  $ 300,327 Income (loss) before income taxes $ 23,136 $ 39,054 $ (375,345 ) $ (6,954 ) $ (320,109 ) Income tax benefit (expense) (9,555 ) (16,130 ) 155,018 5,300 134,633 Net income (loss) $ 13,581 $ 22,924 $ (220,327 ) $ (1,654 ) $ (185,476 ) For the year ended December31, 2004, the Company recorded losses, net of taxes, of $1,092, representing the finalization of film asset adjustments that relate to the sale of the Bravo programming business in 2002. In addition, the Company recorded losses, net of taxes, of $562 for the year ended December31, 2004 that related primarily to estimated legal and payroll tax settlements in connection with the transfer of the retail electronics business.
Rainbow DBS In April 2005, the operations of the Rainbow DBS satellite distribution business were shut down. In connection with the shut down, certain assets of the business, including the Rainbow1 direct broadcast satellite and certain other related assets were sold to a subsidiary of EchoStar for $200,000 in cash. This transaction closed in November 2005. In addition, Rainbow DBS had FCC licenses to construct, launch and operate five fixed service Ka-band satellites and had entered into a contract in November 2004 for the construction by Lockheed Martin of these five Ka-band satellites at a cost of $740,000. Rainbow DBS had the right to terminate the contract at any time, subject to certain maximum termination liabilities. Rainbow DBS exercised this right on November21, 2005, and the amount paid to Lockheed Martin in excess of the termination liability was repaid to the Company in March 2006.
In September 2005, Loral filed an action against Cablevision and Rainbow DBS for breach of contract based on a letter agreement dated March23, 2001 (the Letter Agreement) between Loral and Rainbow DBS. Loral alleges that the sale of the Rainbow-1 satellite and related assets to EchoStar constituted a sale of substantially all of the assets of Rainbow DBS triggering a Make Whole Payment under the Letter Agreement of $33,000 plus interest. A trial in this matter took place in January 2007 in New York Supreme Court for New York County. On January24, 2007, the jury returned a verdict finding that the EchoStar sale had triggered a Make Whole Payment under the Letter Agreement, requiring a payment to Loral of $50,898, including interest, which has been accrued for as of December31, 2006 and reflected as an expense in discontinued operations. Cablevision and Rainbow DBS have filed a motion for judgment as a matter of law, or in the alternative for a new trial, which is pending.
Certain assets of the Rainbow DBS satellite distribution business, previously included in the Rainbow DBS segment, amounting to $7,557, had been classified as assets held for sale in the consolidated balance sheet of the Company at December31, 2005. These assets related to the direct broadcast satellite television business of Rainbow DBS and consisted of equipment and other assets. In the first quarter of 2006, the Company recorded an impairment loss of $7,179 which has been classified in discontinued operations. In the second quarter of 2006, the assets were sold.
I-30 Fox Sports Net Chicago In June 2006, the operations of the Fox Sports Net Chicago programming business were shut down. In connection with the shut down, the Company recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $5,121 which was classified in discontinued operations.
NOTE 7. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT Costs incurred in the construction of the Companys cable television system, including line extensions to, and upgrade of, the Companys hybrid fiber-coaxial infrastructure and headend facilities are capitalized. These costs consist of materials, subcontractor labor, direct consulting fees, and internal labor and related costs associated with the construction activities. The internal costs that are capitalized consist of salaries and benefits of Company employees and the portion of facility costs, including rent, taxes, insurance and utilities, that supports the construction activities. These costs are depreciated over the estimated life of the plant (12-25 years), and headend facilities (4-15 years). Costs of operating the plant and the technical facilities, including repairs and maintenance and call completion fees, are expensed as incurred.
Costs incurred to connect businesses or residences that have not been previously connected to the infrastructure or digital platform are also capitalized. These costs include materials, subcontractor labor, internal labor to connect, provision and provide on-site and remote technical assistance and other related costs associated with the connection activities. In addition, on-site and remote technical assistance during the provisioning process for new digital product offerings are capitalized. The departmental activities supporting the connection process are tracked through specific metrics, and the portion of departmental costs that is capitalized is determined through a time weighted activity allocation of costs incurred based on time studies used to estimate the average time spent on each activity. New connections are amortized over 5 years or 12 years for residence wiring and feeder cable to the home, respectively. The portion of departmental costs related to reconnection, programming service up- and down- grade, repair and maintenance, and disconnection activities are expensed as incurred.
I-31 Property, plant and equipment (including equipment under capital leases) consist of the following assets, which are depreciated or amortized on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives shown below: December31, Estimated 2006 2005 UsefulLives Customer equipment $ 1,565,089 $ 1,359,758 3   to 5 years Headends and related   equipment 610,563 578,880 4   to 15 years Central office   equipment 456,670 397,450 5   to 10 years Infrastructure 4,599,159 4,391,527 3   to 25 years Program, service and   data processing equipment 1,254,713 1,201,999 2   to 13 years Microwave equipment 37,484 35,084 5   to 8 years Construction in   progress (including materials and supplies) 68,136 63,157  Furniture and fixtures 171,311 163,035 3   to 10 years Transportation   equipment 228,414 217,604 3   to 15 years Buildings and building   improvements 368,921 358,140 2   to 40 years Leasehold improvements 531,471 516,452 Term   of lease Land 79,989 79,985  9,971,920 9,363,071 Less accumulated   depreciation and amortization 6,257,078 5,494,994 $ 3,714,842 $ 3,868,077 Depreciation expense on property, plant and equipment (including capital leases) for the years ended December31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 amounted to $1,034,628, $981,057 and $967,306 (including impairments of $1,205, $2,734 and $14,437 in 2006, 2005 and 2004), respectively.
At December31, 2006 and 2005, the gross amount of equipment and related accumulated amortization recorded under capital leases were as follows: December31, 2006 2005 Equipment $ 122,400 $ 113,766 Less accumulated   amortization 75,817 67,443 $ 46,583 $ 46,323 I-32 NOTE 8. INTANGIBLE ASSETS The following table summarizes information relating to the Companys acquired intangible assets at December31, 2006 and 2005: December31, Estimated 2006 2005 UsefulLives Gross carrying   amount of amortizable intangible assets Affiliation relationships and affiliation agreements $ 783,774 $ 782,367 4 to 24 years Broadcast rights and other agreements 86,748 86,748 10 to 11 years Season ticket holder relationships 75,005 75,005 10 to 15 years Suite holder contracts and relationships 21,167 21,167 3 to 11 years Advertiser relationships 104,071 104,071 7 to 10 years Other intangibles 40,819 87,400 1 to 20 years 1,111,584 1,156,758 Accumulated   amortization Affiliation relationships and affiliation agreements 366,888 305,677 Broadcast rights and other agreements 50,746 44,075 Season ticket holder relationships 10,027 4,576 Suite holder contracts and relationships 5,815 2,491 Advertiser relationships 42,814 31,315 Other intangibles 19,139 29,810 495,429 417,944 Indefinite-lived   intangible assets Franchises 731,848 731,848 Sports franchises 96,215 96,215 FCC licenses and other intangibles 11,936 19,076 Trademarks 53,880 53,880 Excess costs over the fair value of net assets   acquired 1,032,117 993,426 1,925,996 1,894,445 Total intangible assets, net $ 2,542,151 $ 2,633,259 Aggregate   amortization expense Years ended December31, 2006 and 2005   (excluding impairment charges of $899 and $4,963, respectively) $ 93,286 $ 97,623 Estimated   amortization expense Year ending   December 31, 2007 $ 91,553 Year ending   December 31, 2008 89,112 Year ending   December 31, 2009 82,699 Year ending   December 31, 2010 79,637 Year ending December   31, 2011 78,838 I-33 The changes in the carrying amount of excess costs over the fair value of net assets acquired for the years ended December31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 are as follows: Tele-communications MSG Rainbow Other Total Company Balance as of   December31, 2004 $ 206,971 $ 1,152,131 $ 70,722 $ 13,558 $ 1,443,382 Adjustments recorded in   connection with the Regional Programming Partners restructuring  (460,853 ) 14,026  (446,827 ) Reclassification as a   result of the Regional Programming Partners restructuring  32,755 (32,755 )   Impairment loss   (4,963 )  (4,963 ) Other   935 899 1,834 Balance as of   December31, 2005 206,971 724,033 47,965 14,457 993,426 Cumulative effect of   adjustments resulting from the adoption of SAB No.108 (Note 2)  14,228 30,483  44,711 Adjusted balance at   January 1, 2006 206,971 738,261 78,448 14,457 1,038,137 Impairment loss -   continuing operations    (899 ) (899 ) Impairment loss -   discontinued operations (Note6)   (5,121 )  (5,121 ) Balance as of December31, 2006 $ 206,971 $ 738,261 $ 73,327 $ 13,558 $ 1,032,117 See Note3 for a discussion of changes to acquired intangible assets primarily as a result of the Regional Programming Partners restructuring in 2005.
I-34 NOTE 9. DEBT Bank Debt The Companys outstanding bank debt at December 31, 2006 and 2005 is as follows: December 31, 2006 2005 Restricted Group: Restricted Group credit facility (terminated in 2006) $  $1,256,000 Term A-1 credit facility 1,000,000  Term B credit facility 3,482,500  4,482,500 1,256,000 Rainbow National Services: Credit facility (terminated in 2006)  595,500 Term A credit facility 500,000  Revolving credit facility 10,000  $ 4,992,500 $1,851,500 Restricted Group On February24, 2006, the Restricted Group (comprised primarily of the CSC Holdings cable television subsidiaries and its commercial data and voice services subsidiary) entered into a $2,400,000 credit facility with a group of banks consisting of three components: a $1,000,000 revolver that was undrawn at December31, 2006, a $1,000,000 termA-1 loan facility and a $400,000 termA-2 loan facility that has since been refinanced and repaid in full, as described below. Approximately $1,300,000 of the $1,400,000 proceeds received from the term loans under the new credit facility was used to repay the outstanding borrowings and accrued interest under the prior Restricted Group credit facility that was scheduled to mature in June 2006, and fees and expenses. On March29, 2006, the Restricted Group entered into a new $3,500,000 termB loan facility, of which approximately $400,000 of the proceeds was used to prepay the outstanding borrowings of the termA-2 loan facility, including accrued interest, and fees and expenses. The balance of the outstanding termB loan facility borrowings was invested in short-term AAA rated funds until approval of the special dividend by the Companys Board of Directors. On April24, 2006 the approved special dividend was paid (see Note1).
The three components of the new Restricted Group credit facility, the $1,000,000 revolver, the $1,000,000 termA-1 loan facility and the $3,500,000 termB loan facility, are direct obligations of CSC Holdings, guaranteed by most Restricted Group subsidiaries and secured by the pledge of the stock of most Restricted Group subsidiaries. As of December31, 2006, $51,994 of the $1,000,000 revolving credit facility was restricted for certain letters of credit issued on behalf of CSC Holdings. The revolving credit facility and the termA-1 loan facility mature in six years in February2012 and the termB loan facility matures in seven years in March2013. The revolver has no required interim repayments, the $1,000,000 termA-1 loan facility requires quarterly repayments aggregating 0% in year one, 5% in each of years two and three, 25% in each of years four and five, and 40% in the final year and the $3,500,000 termB loan facility is subject to quarterly repayments totaling 1% ($8,750 per quarter) in each of years one through six and 94% ($822,500 per quarter) in the final year. The interest rate on the termA-1 loan facility varies, depending on the Restricted Groups cash flow ratio (as defined), from .75% to 1.75% over the Eurodollar Rate for Eurodollar-based borrowings and from zero to .75% over the Base Rate for Base Rate Borrowings (as defined). The interest rate on the borrowings under the termB loan facility is the Eurodollar Rate (as defined) plus 1.75% or prime rate plus .75%, at the Companys election. The weighted average interest rates as of December31, 2006 on borrowings under the termA-1 loan facility and termB loan facility was 6.62% and 7.12%, respectively.
I-35 The principal financial covenants, which are not identical for the revolving credit facility and the term A- 1 loan facility, on the one hand, and the termB loan facility, on the other, include (i)under the revolving credit facility and the termA-1 loan facility, maximum total leverage of 7.50 to 1 with subsequent stepdowns over the life of the revolving credit facility and the termA-1 loan facility until reaching 4.50 to 1 for periods beginning on and after January1, 2010, (ii)under the revolving credit facility and the termA-1 loan facility, maximum senior secured leverage of 4.00 times cash flow through December31, 2006 with annual stepdowns thereafter over the life of the revolving credit facility and the termA-1 loan facility until reaching 3.00 to 1 for periods beginning on and after January1, 2010, (iii)under the revolving credit facility and the termA-1 loan facility, minimum ratios for cash flow to interest expense of 1.75 to 1 initially, increasing to 2.00 to 1 on and after July1, 2007, and (iv)under the revolving credit facility and the termA-1 loan facility, a minimum ratio of cash flow less cash taxes to total debt expense (defined to include interest expense, certain payments of principal and dividends paid by CSC Holdings to Cablevision to permit Cablevision to pay interest and certain principal payments on its debt) of 1.50 to 1. These covenants and restrictions on the permitted use of borrowed funds in the revolving credit facility may limit the Companys ability to utilize all of the undrawn revolver funds. Additional covenants include limitations on liens and the issuance of additional debt.
Under the termB loan facility, the Company is limited in its ability to incur additional indebtedness based on a maximum ratio of total indebtedness to cash flow (as defined in the termB loan facility) of 7.50 to 1 with subsequent stepdowns over the life of the termB loan facility until reaching 5.00 to 1 for periods beginning on and after January1, 2010 and a maximum senior secured leverage ratio of 4.50 times cash flow (as defined in the termB loan facility).
Under the revolving credit facility and the termA-1 loan facility, there are generally no restrictions on investments that the Restricted Group may make, provided it is not in default. The Restricted Group can make distributions or other restricted payments so long as CSC Holdings is not in default, but there is a limitation (initially $200,000, subject to increase to reflect capital contributions or issuance of equity interests) on restricted payments during any period when the cash flow leverage ratio is greater than 6.0 to 1. The $200,000 limitation does not apply to restricted payments by CSC Holdings to Cablevision to be used by Cablevision to make scheduled payments of principal or interest on its indebtedness. Under the termB loan facility, there also are generally no restrictions on investments that the Restricted Group may make provided it is not in default; however, CSC Holdings must also remain in compliance with the maximum ratio of total indebtedness to cash flow and the maximum senior secured leverage ratio. The Restricted Groups ability to make restricted payments is also limited by provisions in the termB loan facility and the indentures covering the Companys notes and debentures.
In connection with the repayment of the termA-2 loan facility and the prior Restricted Group credit facility, the Company wrote off $4,587 of unamortized deferred financing costs and in connection with the new Restricted Group credit facility, related costs of $42,004 were recorded as deferred financing costs.
Rainbow National Services On July5, 2006, Rainbow National Services LLC (RNS), an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, entered into a replacement bank facility (the New RNS Credit Facility) providing for an $800,000 senior secured facility which consists of a $500,000 termA loan facility and a $300,000 revolving credit facility which was used primarily to refinance its then existing credit facility. The termA loan facility matures June30, 2013 and the revolving credit facility matures June30, 2012. The New RNS Credit Facility allows RNS to utilize up to $50,000 of the revolving credit facility for letters of credit and up to $5,000 for a swing loan. Further, the New RNS Credit Facility provides for an I-36 incremental facility of up to $925,000, provided that it be for a minimum amount of $100,000. If an incremental facility is established, RNS and the lenders will enter into a supplement to the New RNS Credit Facility with terms and conditions that are no more restrictive than those of the New RNS Credit Facility. There are no commitments from the lenders to fund an incremental facility.
On July5, 2006, RNS borrowed the entire $500,000 termA loan facility and $10,000 under the revolving credit facility. RNS used the $510,000 borrowed under the New RNS Credit Facility and $88,048 of additional available cash to repay all of its outstanding borrowings, accrued interest and fees due under its August 2004 $950,000 senior secured credit facility of which $592,500 was outstanding under a term loan at July5, 2006 (scheduled to mature March31, 2012) and to pay certain fees and expenses incurred in connection with the New RNS Credit Facility. RNS may use future borrowings under the credit agreement to make investments, distributions, and other payments permitted under the New RNS Credit Facility and for general corporate purposes. The borrowings under the New RNS Credit Facility may be repaid without penalty at any time. At December31, 2006, $500,000 was outstanding under the termA loan and $10,000 was outstanding under the revolving credit facility. RNS had $290,000 in undrawn revolver commitments at December31, 2006.
Borrowings under the New RNS Credit Facility are direct obligations of RNS which are guaranteed jointly and severally by substantially all of its subsidiaries and by Rainbow Programming Holdings LLC, the direct parent of RNS, and are secured by the pledge of the stock of RNS and substantially all of its subsidiaries and all of the other assets of RNS and substantially all of its subsidiaries (subject to certain limited exceptions). Borrowings under the New RNS Credit Facility bear interest based on either the Base Rate (the greater of the Federal Funds Rate plus 0.5% and the prime rate (as defined in the New RNS Credit Facility)), or the Eurodollar Rate (as defined in the New RNS Credit Facility). The interest rate under the New RNS Credit Facility varies, depending on RNS cash flow ratio (as defined in the New RNS Credit Facility) from 1.0% to 1.5% over the Eurodollar Rate for Eurodollar-based borrowings and from zero to 0.5% over the Base Rate for Base Rate borrowings. On December 31, 2006, the interest rate on the term A loanfacility and the revolving credit facility was 6.62% and 6.60%, respectively. The termA loan is to be repaid in quarterly installments of 1.25% of the original outstanding balance ($6,250) from March31, 2008 until December31, 2010, 2.5% of the original outstanding balance ($12,500) from March31, 2011 until December31, 2012, and 32.5% of the original outstanding balance ($162,500) on March 31, 2013 and June30, 2013, the termA loan maturity date. Any amounts outstanding under the revolving credit facility are due at maturity on June30, 2012.
The financial covenants consist of (i)a minimum ratio of operating cash flow to total interest expense for each quarter (all as defined in the New RNS Credit Facility) of 1.75 to 1, (ii)a maximum cash flow ratio of total indebtedness to annualized operating cash flow (as defined in the New RNS Credit Facility) of 6.75 to 1 through June30, 2008, decreasing thereafter to 6.25 to 1, and (iii)a maximum senior secured leverage ratio of senior secured debt to annualized operating cash flow (as defined in the New RNS Credit Facility) of 5.50 to 1. Additional covenants include restrictions on indebtedness, guarantees, liens, investments, dividends and distributions and transactions with affiliates.
RNS is obligated to pay fees of 0.375% per annum on any undrawn revolver commitment.
In connection with the New RNS Credit Facility, RNS incurred deferred financing costs of $5,536, which are being amortized to interest expense over the term of the New RNS Credit Facility. The Company recorded $6,084 as a write-off of deferred financing costs associated with the repayment of the August 2004 credit facility in 2006.
I-37 Rainbow Media Holdings In December 2003, Rainbow Media Holdings, a wholly-owned subsidiary of CSC Holdings entered into an $823,000 credit facility consisting of a $200,000 revolving credit facility and a $623,000 term loan, maturing on March31, 2008 and March31, 2009, respectively. At December31, 2003, the weighted average rate of interest was 3.57%.
Loans under the Rainbow Media Holdings credit facility bore interest at the Eurodollar rate plus a margin based upon Rainbow Media Holdings leverage ratio.
In August 2004, RNS distributed approximately $704,900 to Rainbow Media Holdings which it used to repay all outstanding amounts under its credit facility and collateralized outstanding letters of credit. Such proceeds were obtained through the issuance of bank debt and the issuance of senior and senior subordinated notes by RNS. The Company wrote off $12,694 of unamortized deferred financing costs in connection with the termination of the credit facility in 2004.
Madison Square Garden Madison Square Garden, L.P. (MSG), a wholly-owned indirect subsidiary of Rainbow Media Holdings, had a $500,000 revolving credit facility with a group of banks which was to mature on December31, 2004. MSG had pledged substantially all of its assets as collateral under the credit facility. Loans under the MSG credit facility bore interest at either prime rate or a Eurodollar rate plus a margin based upon MSGs consolidated leverage ratio. At December31, 2003, loans outstanding amounted to $110,000, and bore interest at a weighted average rate of 1.93%. In March 2004, borrowings under the credit facility were repaid in full and the credit facility was terminated with proceeds from a $146,000 equity contribution from its direct parent, Regional Programming Partners. The Company wrote off $1,187 of unamortized deferred financing costs in connection with the termination of the MSG credit facility in 2004.
I-38 Senior Notes and Debentures The following table summarizes the Companys senior notes and debentures: CarryingAmountat Date Maturity Face December31, Issuer Issued Date Rate Amount 2006 2005 CSC Holdings(a) December 1997 December 2007 7.875 % $ 500,000 $ 499,952 $ 499,896 Cablevision(a) April 2004 April 2009 Floating 500,000 500,000 500,000 Cablevision(b) April 2004 April 2012 8.00 % 1,000,000 1,000,000 1,000,000 CSC Holdings(b)(d) April 2004 April 2012 6.75 % 500,000 500,000 500,000 CSC Holdings(a) July 1999 July 2009 8.125 % 500,000 499,423 499,191 CSC Holdings(a) July 1998 July 2008 7.25 % 500,000 500,000 500,000 CSC Holdings(a) July 1998 July 2018 7.625 % 500,000 499,714 499,689 CSC Holdings(a) February 1998 February 2018 7.875 % 300,000 298,088 297,918 CSC Holdings(a) August 1997 August 2009 8.125 % 400,000 399,668 399,544 CSC Holdings(a) March 2001 April 2011 7.625 % 1,000,000 998,635 998,315 RNS(c) August 2004 September 2012 8.75 % 300,000 298,476 298,207 $ 6,000,000 $ 5,993,956 $ 5,992,760 (a) These notes are not redeemable by the Company prior to maturity.
(b) The Company may redeem some or all of the notes at any time at a make-whole redemption price calculated by reference to market interest rates for comparable maturity treasury notes plus a spread.
(c) The senior notes are redeemable, in whole or in part, at a redemption price equal to 104.375% of face value at any time on or after September1, 2008, 102.188% of face value on or after September1, 2009, and 100% of face value on or after September1, 2010. In addition, the Company may redeem up to 35% of the senior notes before September1, 2007 at a redemption price of 108.75% of the principal amounts, with the net cash proceeds from specified equity offerings (as defined under the terms of the indentures) provided that at least 65% of the aggregate principal amount of the notes remains outstanding immediately subsequent to the redemption.
(d) These notes have not been exchanged as required by the purchase agreement under which the notes were sold and consequently, the interest rate has increased from 6.75% to 7.25% until the exchange is accomplished. Upon exchange, the interest rate would revert to 6.75%.
The indentures under which the senior notes and debentures were issued contain various covenants, which are generally less restrictive than those contained in the credit agreement of the issuer.
I-39 Senior Subordinated Notes and Debentures The following table summarizes the Companys senior subordinated notes and debentures: CarryingAmountat Principal December31, Redemption(b) Amount 2006 2005 Date Price RNS September 1, 2009 105.188 % 10-3/8% Senior   Subordinated September 1, 2010 103.458 % Notes due 2014, September 1, 2011 101.729 % issued August 2004(a) $ 500,000 $ 497,011 $ 496,621 September 1, 2012 100 % CSC Holdings 10-1/2% Senior   Subordinated Debentures due 2016, issued May 1996(d) 250,000  250,000 CSC Holdings 9-7/8% Senior   Subordinated Debentures due 2013, issued February 1993(c) 200,000   CSC Holdings 9-7/8% Senior   Subordinated Debentures due 2023, issued April 1993 (c) 150,000   $ 1,100,000 $ 497,011 $ 746,621 (a) These notes were discounted $3,915 upon original issuance. The Company may redeem up to 35% of the senior subordinated notes before September1, 2007 at a redemption price of 110.375% of the principal amounts, with the net cash proceeds from specified equity offerings (as defined under the terms of the indenture) provided that at least 65% of the aggregate principal amount of the notes remains outstanding immediately subsequent to the redemption.
(b) The notes/debentures are redeemable, at the Companys option, in whole or in part, on the redemption dates listed at the respective percentage of the principal amount and one year after the last date above at 100% of the aggregate principal amount, in each case together with accrued interest to the redemption date.
(c) In May 2004, the Company redeemed these senior subordinated debentures. In connection with these redemptions, the Company recognized a loss of $14,325 representing primarily the redemption premiums paid.
(d) In June 2006, the Company redeemed these senior subordinated debentures at a redemption price of 105.25%. In connection with the redemption, the Company recognized a loss on extinguishment of debt of $13,125, representing the redemption premiums paid and wrote off the remaining deferred financing costs of $3,412.
The indentures under which the senior subordinated notes and debentures were issued contain various covenants, which are generally less restrictive than those contained in the credit agreement of the issuer.
Debt Covenant Compliance CSC Holdings Credit Agreement: On August29, 2006, CSC Holdings advised the agent bank and the lenders under the new Restricted Group credit facility that due to the expected restatement of its financial statements resulting from the stock option review discussed in Note18, it was unable to comply with its covenant to deliver financial information, due on that date, with respect to the periods ended June30, 2005 and 2006. Under the new Restricted Group credit facility, the covenant noncompliance would become an event of default if the I-40 noncompliance remained unremedied for 30days after notice from the agent bank or any lender (other than a lender under the term B facility), or for 60days after notice from the agent bank or termB lenders holding at least 25% of the termB facility.
On August29, 2006, the lenders under the new Restricted Group credit facility, other than the termB lenders, agreed to waive until September22, 2006 any default resulting from the covenant noncompliance under the new Restricted Group credit facility due to the expected restatement so notice of default could not be given by such a lender until September25, 2006 at the earliest and the Restricted Group would have 30days from the date of any such notice to cure the default. CSC Holdings delivered all required information under the new Restricted Group credit facility on September21, 2006 and the information delivery covenant noncompliance was cured by that delivery.
The Restricted Group did not obtain a waiver of the default resulting from the covenant noncompliance from the lenders holding termB loans under the new Restricted Group credit facility and, on September7, 2006, the bank serving as administrative agent under the new Restricted Group credit facility gave a notice of default to CSC Holdings with respect to such termB covenant noncompliance. As a result, the Restricted Group had 60 days (until November6, 2006) to cure its noncompliance with the financial information covenant. CSC Holdings delivered all required information under the new Restricted Group credit facility on September21, 2006 and the information delivery covenant noncompliance was cured by that delivery.
Cablevision and CSC Holdings Indentures: As a result of not filing their Quarterly Report on Form10-Q for the quarter ended June30, 2006 by September8, 2006, Cablevision and CSC Holdings were not in compliance with the information delivery and filing requirements under the indentures relating to their notes and debentures. Such noncompliance would become an event of default as to any series of notes or debentures if Cablevision or CSC Holdings, as the case may be, received notice of such default from the trustee or the holders of at least 25% of the securities of that series and failed to cure the covenant noncompliance within 60days after receipt of the notice. On September12, 2006, Cablevision received a letter from an investment manager stating that it was acting for funds beneficially owning more than 25% of the outstanding securities of a series under one of Cablevisions indentures. The letter stated that it served as a notice of default under the applicable indenture and demanded that the covenant noncompliance be remedied. Assuming the letter constituted a valid notice of default from holders of at least 25% of the securities of the relevant series, Cablevision had 60 days (until November11, 2006) to cure its noncompliance with the information delivery and filing covenant. Cablevision and CSC Holdings delivered all required information under the indentures on September21, 2006, at which time the Company was in compliance with all of the covenants of its debt instruments.
Summary of Five Year Debt Maturities Total amounts payable by the Company and its subsidiaries under its various debt obligations outstanding as of December31, 2006, including collateralized indebtedness (see Note10) and capital leases (including interest), during the five years subsequent to December31, 2006, are as follows: YearsEndingDecember31, 2007 $ 724,834 2008 871,525 2009 2,381,991 2010 314,536 2011 1,489,536 I-41 NOTE 10. COLLATERALIZED INDEBTEDNESS AND DERIVATIVES To manage interest rate risk, the Company has from time to time entered into interest rate swap contracts to adjust the proportion of total debt that is subject to variable and fixed interest rates. Such contracts fix the borrowing rates on floating rate debt to provide an economic hedge against the risk of rising rates and/or convert fixed rate borrowings to variable rates to provide an economic hedge against the risk of higher borrowing costs in a declining interest rate environment.
At December31, 2006 and 2005 , the Company was a party to interest rate swap agreements to pay floating rates of interest with a total notional value of $450,000 and a fair value of $6,568 , and $10,541, a net liability position, respectively. These agreements have not been designated as hedges for accounting purposes.
In addition, the Company has entered into prepaid interest rate swap agreements in connection with its monetization of certain of its stock holdings, discussed below. These contracts require the Company to pay a floating rate of interest in exchange for fixed rate interest payments, the net present value of which was paid to the Company at the contracts inception. As of December31, 2006 and 2005, the total notional value of such contracts was $105,061 and $613,960, respectively and the fair values of such contracts were $10,340 and $26,881, a net liability position, respectively. These agreements have not been designated as hedges for accounting purposes.
In April 2006, CSC Holdings entered into several interest rate swap contracts in the notional amount of $3,700,000 to effectively fix borrowing rates on floating rate debt. As a result of these transactions, the interest rate paid on approximately 80% of the Companys debt is fixed.
The table below summarizes certain terms of these interest rate swap contracts as of December31, 2006: MaturityDate NotionalAmount WeightedAverageFixed RatePaidbytheCompany WeightedAverage EffectiveFloatingRate ReceivedbytheCompany asofDecember31,2006 April 2008 $ 500,000 5.24 % 5.37 % April 2009 $ 600,000 5.25 % 5.38 % June 2010 $ 2,600,000 5.34 % 5.36 % As of December 31, 2006, the interest rate swap contracts noted above had a fair value and carrying value of $31,398, a net liability position, as reflected under derivative contracts in our consolidated balance sheet.
The changes in the fair value of the Companys swap agreements and the net realized gains (losses) as a result of net cash interest income (expense) for the years ended December31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 aggregating $(39,360), $(16,497) and $(656), respectively, are reflected in gain (loss) on derivative contracts in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations.
The Company has also entered into various transactions to provide an economic hedge against equity price risk on certain of its stock holdings. The Company had monetized all of its stock holdings in Charter Communications, Inc., Adelphia Communications Corporation, AT&T, AT&T Wireless, Comcast Corporation, General Electric Company and Leapfrog Enterprises, Inc. through the execution of prepaid forward contracts, collateralized by an equivalent amount of the respective underlying stock. The contracts set a floor and cap on the Companys participation in the changes in the underlying stock prices and at maturity are expected to offset declines in the fair values of the underlying stock below the hedge price per share, while allowing the Company to retain upside appreciation from the hedge price per share to the cap price. At maturity, the contracts provide for the option to deliver cash or shares of AT&T, I-42 Comcast, Charter Communications, Adelphia Communications, General Electric or Leapfrog stock (as the case may be) with a value determined by reference to the applicable stock price at maturity.
The Company received cash proceeds upon execution of the prepaid forward contracts discussed above which has been reflected as collateralized indebtedness in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. In addition, the Company separately accounts for the equity derivative component of the prepaid forward contracts. These equity derivatives have not been designated as hedges for accounting purposes. Therefore, the fair values of the equity derivatives of $(82,009) and $296,017, at December31, 2006 and 2005, respectively, have been reflected in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets as an asset (liability) and the net increases (decreases) in the fair value of the equity derivative component of the prepaid forward contracts of $(214,352), $135,677 and $(132,940), as of December31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively, are included in gain (loss) on derivative contracts in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations.
For the years ended December31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, the Company recorded a gain (loss) on investments of $284,096, $(135,082) and $135,649 respectively, representing the net increases or decreases in the fair values of all investment securities pledged as collateral for the period.
2006 Settlements of Collateralized Indebtedness The following table summarizes the settlement of the Companys collateralized indebtedness for the year ended December31, 2006. The Companys collateralized indebtedness obligations relating to shares of Charter Communications, Inc. and AT&T Inc. common stock were settled by delivering the underlying securities and proceeds from the related equity derivative contracts. The Companys collateralized indebtedness obligations relating to Comcast Corporation and General Electric Company shares were settled by delivering the cash equal to the collateralized loan value, net of the value of the related equity derivative contracts. The cash was obtained from the proceeds of new monetization contracts covering an equivalent number of Comcast and General Electric shares, proceeds from a prepaid interest rate swap executed in conjunction with the equity derivative contract related to the Comcast shares and, in certain instances, cash from CSC Holdings. The terms of the new contracts allow the Company to retain upside participation in both Comcast and General Electric shares up to each respective contracts upside appreciation limit with downside exposure limited below the respective hedge price.
Charter AT&T Comcast General Electric Total Number of shares 5,586,687 3,449,785 7,159,206 12,742,033 Collateralized indebtedness settled $ (125,907 ) $ (165,036 ) $ (266,224 ) $ (314,028 ) $ (871,195 ) Prepaid forward contracts 119,177 63,974 31,385 (50,864 ) 163,672 Fair value of underlying securities delivered 6,730 101,062   107,792 Net cash payment $  $  $ (234,839 ) $ (364,892 ) $ (599,731 ) Proceeds from new monetization contracts $  $  $ 212,774 $ 382,261 $ 595,035 Proceeds from prepaid interest rate swap contract   6,496  6,496   219,270 382,261 601,531 Net cash receipt (payment) $  $  $ (15,569 ) $ 17,369 $ 1,800 I-43 2005 Settlements of Collateralized Indebtedness The following table summarizes the settlement of the Companys collateralized indebtedness for the year ended December31, 2005. The Companys collateralized indebtedness obligations relating to AT&T Wireless, Charter, Adelphia and AT&T shares were settled by delivering the underlying securities and proceeds from the related equity derivative contracts. The Companys collateralized indebtedness obligations relating to Comcast shares were settled by delivering the cash equal to the market value of the Comcast shares and proceeds from the related equity derivative contracts. The cash was obtained from the proceeds of new monetization contracts covering an equivalent number of Comcast shares, and, in certain cases, proceeds from a prepaid interest rate swap executed in conjunction with the equity derivative contract. The terms of the new contracts are similar in all material respects to the contracts that had matured and allow the Company to retain upside participation in the Comcast shares up to the contracts upside appreciation limit with downside exposure limited below the hedge price.
Adelphia AT&TWireless Charter AT&T Comcast Total Number of shares 1,010,000 7,243,166 1,862,229 4,183,455 7,159,206 Collateralized indebtedness $ (39,935 ) $ (116,544 ) $ (42,676 ) $ (165,036 ) $ (266,227 ) $ (630,418 ) Prepaid forward contracts 39,834 8,897 39,678 79,502 43,604 211,515 Underlying securities 101  2,998 85,534  88,633 Restricted cash  108,647    108,647 Net cash receipt (payment) $  $ 1,000 $  $  $ (222,623 ) $ (221,623 ) Proceeds from new monetization contracts $  $  $  $  $ 209,973 $ 209,973 Proceeds from prepaid interest rate swap contract     6,462 6,462     216,435 216,435 Net cash receipt (payment) $  $ 1,000 $  $  $ (6,188 ) $ (5,188 ) At December31, 2006, the Company had principal collateralized indebtedness obligations of $102,268 that mature during the next twelve months. The Company intends to settle such obligations by either delivering shares of the applicable stock and proceeds of the equity derivative contracts or delivering cash from the proceeds of new monetization transactions. In the event of an early termination of any of these contracts, the Company would be obligated to repay the fair value of the collateralized indebtedness less the sum of the fair values of the underlying stock and equity collar, calculated at the termination date. As of December31, 2006, this settlement amount totaled $2,221.
In October 2004, the Company received $213,647 in cash in exchange for all 14.2million shares it owned of AT&T Wireless common stock, representing the $15 share price paid in consideration of the merger between AT&T Wireless and Cingular Wireless LLC. The shares and resultant cash exchanged for such shares had previously been pledged in support of the repayment of the collateralized debt. As a result of that exchange, the Companys prepaid forward contracts relating to its shares of AT&T Wireless were terminated. The termination provisions under the prepaid forward contracts required the Company to repay the fair value of the collateralized indebtedness less the sum of the fair value of the underlying stock and equity collars. The Company recognized a loss on the extinguishment of debt of $6,076 representing the difference between the fair value and the carrying value of the collateralized indebtedness. At December31, 2004, the Company had settled certain collateralized indebtedness with a fair value of $124,100 by releasing to the counterparty cash proceeds from the related prepaid forward contract totaling $20,100 and the cash from the merger transaction of $105,000 both of which had been pledged in settlement of the debt. The Company received the net difference of $1,000 in cash upon settlement in February 2005.
In February 2003, Quadrangle Capital Partners LP (Quadrangle), a private investment firm, invested $75,000 in CSC Holdings, in the form of 10% Series A Exchangeable Participating Preferred Stock convertible into Cablevision NY Group ClassA common stock. In connection with the issuance of the SeriesA Preferred Stock to Quadrangle Capital Partners LP, the Company entered into an agreement with Quadrangle which granted Quadrangle the right to require the Company to purchase the preferred stock (put option) for cash or through the issuance of registered equity securities of the Company, at the Companys option.
I-44 The exchange right and the put option were accounted for as a derivative. The change in the fair value of the exchange right and put option of $31,709 for the year ended December31, 2004 has been reflected as a loss on derivative contracts in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations. In October 2003, Quadrangle exercised its put option to require CSC Holdings to purchase all of its SeriesA Exchangeable Participating Preferred Stock. The parties entered into an agreement that the put price was $150,328. The put price was paid in cash by CSC Holdings in August 2004.
NOTE 11. PREFERRED STOCK OF CSC HOLDINGS, INC.
In February 1996, CSC Holdings issued 6,500,000 depositary shares, representing 65,000 shares of 11-1/8% Series L Redeemable Exchangeable Preferred Stock (the Series L Preferred Stock), which were subsequently exchanged for SeriesM Redeemable Exchangeable Preferred Stock (the Series M Preferred Stock) in August 1996 with terms identical to the Series L Preferred Stock. The depositary shares were exchangeable, in whole but not in part, at the option of CSC Holdings, for CSC Holdings 11-1/8% Senior Subordinated Debentures due 2008. CSC Holdings was required to redeem the Series M Preferred Stock on April1, 2008 at a redemption price equal to the liquidation preference of $10,000 per share plus accumulated and unpaid dividends. The Series M Preferred Stock was redeemable at various redemption prices beginning at 105.563% at any time on or after April1, 2003, at the option of CSC Holdings, with accumulated and unpaid dividends thereon to the date of redemption. Before April1, 2001, dividends could, at the option of CSC Holdings, be paid in cash or by issuing fully paid and nonassessable shares of Series M Preferred Stock with an aggregate liquidation preference equal to the amount of such dividends. On and after April1, 2001, dividends were payable in cash. CSC Holdings paid cash dividends on the Series M Preferred Stock of $42,882 in 2004.
In September1995, CSC Holdings issued 2,500,000 shares of its $.01 par value 11-3/4% SeriesH Redeemable Exchangeable Preferred Stock (the SeriesH Preferred Stock) with an aggregate liquidation preference of $100 per share. CSC Holdings was required to redeem the SeriesH Preferred Stock on October1, 2007 at a redemption price per share equal to the liquidation preference of $100 per share, plus accrued and unpaid dividends thereon.
The SeriesH Preferred Stock was redeemable at various redemption prices beginning at 105.875% at any time on or after October1, 2002, at the option of CSC Holdings, with accumulated and unpaid dividends thereon to the date of redemption. Before October1, 2000, dividends could, at the option of CSC Holdings, be paid in cash or by issuing fully paid and nonassessable shares of SeriesH Preferred Stock with an aggregate liquidation preference equal to the amount of such dividends. On and after October1, 2000, dividends were payable in cash. The terms of the SeriesH Preferred Stock permitted CSC Holdings, at its option, to exchange the SeriesH Preferred Stock for CSC Holdings 11-3/4% Senior Subordinated Debentures due 2007 in an aggregate principal amount equal to the aggregate liquidation preference of the shares of SeriesH Preferred Stock. CSC Holdings paid cash dividends on the Series H Preferred Stock of $17,712 in 2004.
In May 2004, CSC Holdings redeemed all of its SeriesH Preferred Stock and its Series M Preferred Stock. In connection with the redemptions, the Company recognized a loss of $58,170 representing the redemption premiums paid. In addition, the Company wrote off $5,080 of unamortized deferred financing costs in connection with these redemptions.
I-45 NOTE 12. INCOME TAXES The Company files a consolidated federal income tax return with its 80% or more owned subsidiaries.
Income tax expense (benefit) attributable to continuing operations consists of the following components: YearsEndedDecember31, 2006 2005 2004 Current expense: Federal $  $  $ 93 State 9,546 9,493 6,669 9,546 9,493 6,762 Deferred benefit: Federal (79,510 ) (58,282 ) (85,001 ) State (64,253 ) (26,902 ) (123,158 ) (143,763 ) (85,184 ) (208,159 ) Income tax benefit $ (134,217 ) $ (75,691 ) $ (201,397 ) The income tax benefit attributable to continuing operations for 2005 and 2004 excludes deferred federal and state tax benefits of $1,256 and $3,388, respectively, resulting from the exercise of stock options, which were credited directly to paid-in capital.
No income tax benefit has been recognized as an increase to paid in capital with regard to excess tax benefits occurring during the year ended December 31, 2006.
The income tax expense attributable to discontinued operations was classified as deferred income tax expense for all periods presented (see Note6).
The income tax expense (benefit) attributable to continuing operations differs from the amount derived by applying the statutory federal rate to pretax income principally due to the effect of the following items: YearsEndedDecember31, 2006 2005 2004 Federal tax   benefit at statutory federal rate $ (93,543 ) $ (71,128 ) $ (240,601 ) State income taxes,   net of federal benefit (24,315 ) (12,211 ) (25,692 ) Changes in the   valuation allowance (10,404 ) 6,459 14,036 State rate   change, net of federal benefit 1,706 (6,701 ) (21,615 ) Nondeductible   expense relating to Series A Preferred Stock   11,098 Nondeductible   preferred stock dividends   21,208 Nondeductible   redemption premium on Series H and Series M Preferred Stock   20,360 Reduction of a   tax contingency liability (16,356 )   Favorable   settlement of an issue with a taxing authority (5,013 )   Nondeductible   officers compensation 4,443 6,226 8,303 Other   nondeductible expenses 6,768 10,637 4,776 Other 2,497 (8,973 ) 6,730 Income tax   benefit $ (134,217 ) $ (75,691 ) $ (201,397 ) At December31, 2006, the Company had consolidated federal tax net operating loss carry forwards (NOLs) of $2,830,369 expiring on various dates through 2026. The Company has recorded a deferred tax asset for such NOLs.
I-46 The Companys NOLs expire as follows: 2008 $ 19,933 2009 137,011 2010 142,821 2011 151,008 2012 72,442 2018 101,547 2019 497,669 2020 110,970 2021 362,821 2022 231,138 2023 347,362 2024 591,350 2026 64,297 $ 2,830,369 During 2006, the tax deduction resulting from the exercise and issuance of certain share-based awards exceeded the aggregate compensation expense for such awards by $18,387. This windfall deduction results in an excess tax benefit that must be analyzed to determine whether it has been realized. As described in Note16, the Company uses the with-and-without approach to determine whether an excess tax benefit has been realized. Given the Companys NOL position, no income tax benefit has been recognized for such excess tax benefit. Accordingly, the NOLs above exclude $18,387 of windfall tax deductions occurring in 2006.
I-47 The tax effects of temporary differences which give rise to significant portions of deferred tax assets or liabilities and the corresponding valuation allowance at December31, 2006 and 2005 are as follows: December31, 2006 2005 Deferred Tax Asset   (Liability) Current Benefits of tax   loss carry forwards $ 67,418 $ 137,034 Compensation and   benefit plans 62,201 7,598 Allowance for   doubtful accounts 4,416 3,878 Reserve for   restructuring 1,723 3,833 Investments 14,694  Other assets  1,671 Other   liabilities 37,368 71,680 Deferred tax   asset 187,820 225,694 Valuation   allowance (3,788 ) (6,518 ) Net deferred tax   asset, current 184,032 219,176 Investments  (208,388 ) Deferred tax   liability, current  (208,388 ) Net deferred tax   asset, current 184,032 10,788 Noncurrent Benefits of tax   loss carry forwards 1,103,588 1,124,720 Compensation and   benefit plans 87,992 78,058 Other 32,895 8,472 Deferred tax   asset 1,224,475 1,211,250 Valuation   allowance (24,700 ) (35,012 ) Net deferred tax   asset, noncurrent 1,199,775 1,176,238 Fixed assets and   intangibles (461,372 ) (517,201 ) Investments (221,902 ) (73,718 ) Partnership   investments (573,744 ) (556,872 ) Other assets (16,481 ) (2,785 ) Deferred tax   liability, noncurrent (1,273,499 ) (1,150,576 ) Net deferred tax   asset (liability), noncurrent (73,724 ) 25,662 Total net deferred tax   asset $ 110,308 $ 36,450 In general, deferred tax assets and liabilities are classified as either current or noncurrent based on the balance sheet classification of the underlying asset or liability. Current deferred tax assets and liabilities are netted and presented as either a current deferred tax asset or a current deferred tax liability. As of December31, 2005, the current net deferred tax asset of $10,788 included a deferred tax liability of $208,388 relating to investments, which was primarily comprised of a deferred tax liability of $253,555 relating to investment securities pledged as collateral and derivative contracts offset by a deferred tax asset of $44,733 relating to an unrealized loss on an investment in Adelphia stock, which was realized in December 2006. Due primarily to the classifications of current and noncurrent investment securities pledged as collateral and derivative contracts, a deferred tax asset of $14,694 corresponding to these items has been included in current deferred tax assets as of December31, 2006.
Deferred tax assets have resulted primarily from the Companys future deductible temporary differences and NOLs. In assessing the realizability of deferred tax assets, management considers whether it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax asset will not be realized. The Companys ability to realize its deferred tax assets depends upon the generation of sufficient future taxable income and tax planning strategies to allow for the utilization of its NOLs and deductible temporary differences.
I-48 If such estimates and related assumptions change in the future, the Company may be required to record additional valuation allowances against its deferred tax assets, resulting in additional income tax expense in the Companys consolidated statement of operations. Management evaluates the realizability of the deferred tax assets and the need for additional valuation allowances quarterly. At this time, based on current facts and circumstances, management believes that it is more likely than not that the Company will realize benefit for its gross deferred tax assets, except those deferred tax assets against which a valuation allowance has been recorded which relate to certain state net operating loss carry forwards. In 2006, the Company recorded a decrease in the valuation allowance of $10,404 relating to certain state net operating loss carry forwards. In 2005 and 2004, the Company recorded increases in the valuation allowance of $6,459 and $14,036, respectively, relating to certain state net operating loss carry forwards. During 2006 and 2005, certain state net operating loss carry forwards expired prior to utilization. The deferred tax asset corresponding to the expired net operating loss carry forwards had been previously fully offset by a valuation allowance. The deferred tax asset and valuation allowance were both reduced by $2,638 and $6,953 in 2006 and 2005, respectively.
At times, the Company takes certain positions on its tax returns that may be challenged by various taxing authorities. These tax positions arise in connection with certain transactions or operations. Although the Company believes it has support for its tax positions, it has recorded a liability for its best estimate of the probable loss on such positions. Management does not believe that the resolution of these matters will have a material adverseimpact on the financial position of the Company.
The Company is currently being audited by the state of Ohio for the tax year ended December31, 2000. The primary audit issue is the amount of gain that should be subject to tax in Ohio pursuant to the 2000 sale of certain cable television systems. Ohio has asserted that more of the gain should be taxed in Ohio. Ohio has issued a proposed assessment of additional tax due of approximately $55,000 plus interest of approximately $12,000. As of December31, 2006, the Company has recorded a liability with respect to such matter of approximately $11,000, including interest, which represents managements current estimate of the additional amount that may be owed.
NOTE 13.
OPERATING LEASES The Company leases certain office, production, transmission, theater and event facilities under terms of leases expiring at various dates through 2027. The leases generally provide for fixed annual rentals plus certain real estate taxes and other costs. Rent expense for the years ended December31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 amounted to $82,342, $79,590 and $76,300, respectively.
In addition, the Company rents space on utility poles for its operations. The Companys pole rental agreements are for varying terms, and management anticipates renewals as they expire. Pole rental expense for the years ended December31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 amounted to $13,777, $12,325 and $13,607, respectively.
Madison Square Garden operates Radio City Music Hall under a long-term lease. Under the terms of the lease agreement, Madison Square Garden is required to meet certain net worth, cash flow, and building utilization requirements. In the event Madison Square Garden were to fail to meet the lease requirements and was unable to remedy such defaults, the landlord could have the option of terminating the lease.
I-49 The minimum future annual payments for all operating leases for continuing operations (with initial or remaining terms in excess of one year) during the next five years, including pole rentals from January1, 2007 through December31, 2011, and thereafter, at rates now in force are as follows: 2007 $ 91,214 2008 96,484 2009 92,753 2010 87,976 2011 82,746 Thereafter 508,855 NOTE 14. AFFILIATE AND RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS Equity Method Investments The following table reflects the Companys ownership percentages and balances of equity method investments as of December31, 2006 and 2005: OwnershipPercentages InvestmentBalances December31, 2006 2005 2006 2005 Fox Sports Net   New England 50.0 % 50.0 % $ 47,656 $ 39,463 Other 22.2 % N/A 2,294  Net investment   in affiliates $ 49,950 $ 39,463 The Companys share of the net income (loss) of these affiliates for the years ended December31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 is as follows: YearsEndedDecember31, 2006 2005 2004 Fox Sports Net   New England $ 6,698 $ 6,645 $ 6,194 National Sports   Partners(a)  (3,379 ) (19,731 ) National   Advertising Partners(a)  (47 ) 1,992 PVI Virtual   Media Services LLC(b)   (1,668 ) New York Metro,   LLC   216 $ 6,698 $ 3,219 $ (12,997 ) (a) See Note3 for a discussion of the Regional Programming Partners restructuring in 2005 which eliminated our ownership interest in these entities.
(b) PVI Virtual Media Services LLC was consolidated in the second quarter of 2004, pursuant to FIN No.46R and the ownership interest not owned by the Company was purchased in 2005.
The following table includes certain unaudited financial information for Fox Sports Net New England: December31, 2006 2005 (unaudited) Total assets $ 85,861 $ 67,391 Total liabilities* 13,502 12,049 * Includes amounts due to the Company from affiliates referred to below.
I-50 Amounts due to these affiliates at December31, 2006 and 2005 aggregated $477 and $1,428, respectively.
The Company provides certain transmission and production services to certain of these affiliates. For the years ended December31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, $ 1,358 , $1,608 and $1,502, respectively, of revenues were earned from services provided to these entities. Costs incurred by the Company for programming, entertainment and advertising services provided by these affiliates and included in operating expenses for the years ended December31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 amounted to $342, $3,509 and $16,186, respectively.
Other Affiliates and Related Parties During 2006, 2005 and 2004, the Company provided services to or incurred costs on behalf of other affiliates. These costs are reimbursed to the Company. Aggregate amounts due from and due to these affiliates at December31, 2006 and 2005 are summarized below: December31, 2006 2005 Advances to affiliates $ 153 $ 70 Accounts payable to affiliates 94 39 In February 2005, the Company signed a letter of intent under which VOOM HD, LLC, a private company formed by two of the Companys ClassB shareholders, CharlesF. Dolan and ThomasC. Dolan, had planned to acquire from the Company the business, assets and liabilities of the Companys Rainbow DBS satellite business not included in the agreement with EchoStar (see Note3). The letter of intent between the Company and VOOM HD, LLC expired on February28, 2005 without a definitive agreement being reached.
Following the expiration of the letter of intent, the Company began shutting down the Rainbow DBS satellite distribution operations. In March 2005, the Company entered into an agreement with CharlesF. Dolan and ThomasC. Dolan (March 2005 Agreement) pursuant to which the parties agreed to work cooperatively to finalize the separation of Rainbow DBS from the Company. The Company agreed that no new shutdown activities would be undertaken at Rainbow DBS during the term of the agreement. In accordance with the March 2005 Agreement, CharlesF. Dolan deposited $15,000 with the Company to fund any expenditures above those contemplated in the shutdown budget, net of March 2005 revenue earned. This agreement terminated on March31, 2005 and, in accordance with its terms, the distribution business of Rainbow DBS was shutdown effective April30, 2005 and the Board of Directors confirmed such shutdown decision at a meeting on April7, 2005.
Cash deposited by CharlesF. Dolan under the March 2005 Agreement that was not used to fund costs or segregated to pay costs associated with new commitments or other agreements of $8,663 was returned to him prior to December31, 2005. Cash of $6,337 deposited by CharlesF. Dolan which was used to fund the incremental costs less March 2005 revenue earned related to the Rainbow DBS satellite distribution business, net of the related discounted income tax benefit to the Company, has been recorded as a deemed net equity contribution.
Fox Sports Net Ohio and Cleveland Indians Baseball Club Limited Partnership (the Indians) are parties to a multi-year rights agreement under which Fox Sports Net Ohio pays license fees to the Indians in exchange for telecast rights to substantially all regular season Indians games.
As a result of the restructuring of Regional Programming Partners in April 2005, the Company no longer owns interests in Fox Sports Net Ohio. T he Indians are owned by (i)Lawrence Dolan, a brother of CharlesF. Dolan, the I-51 Companys Chairman, (ii)a trust, the beneficiaries of which are Lawrence Dolan and certain descendants of Lawrence Dolan, and (iii)certain other trusts, the beneficiaries of which are certain descendants of CharlesF. Dolan , including JamesL. Dolan, the Companys Chief Executive Officer, and Marianne Dolan Weber and PatrickF. Dolan, officers of the Company and brothers of JamesL. Dolan and a trust whose discretionary beneficiaries include Brian Sweeney, son-in-law of CharlesF. Dolan, brother-in-law of JamesL. Dolan, and a director . Management control of the Indians is held by Lawrence Dolan.
NOTE 15. BENEFIT PLANS Adoption of Statement No. 158 Effective December31, 2006, the Company adopted the recognition and disclosure provisions of Statement No.158 which requires employers to recognize in their balance sheets the overfunded or underfunded status of defined benefit postretirement plans, measured as the difference between the fair value of plan assets and the benefit obligation (the projected benefit obligation for pension plans and the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation for other postretirement plans). Employers must recognize the change in the funded status of the plan in the year in which the change occurs through accumulated other comprehensive income. Statement No.158 also requires plan assets and obligations to be measured as of the employers balance sheet date. The measurement provision of Statement No.158 will be effective on January 1, 2009 for the Company with early application encouraged. This will not have an impact to the Company as its current measurement date is December 31.
Prior to the adoption of the recognition provisions of Statement No.158, the Company accounted for its defined benefit postretirement plans under Statement No.87 and SFAS No.106, Employers Accounting for Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions (Statement No.106). Statement No.87 required that a liability (additional minimum pension liability or AML) be recorded when the accumulated benefit obligation (ABO) liability exceeded the fair value of plan assets. Any adjustment was recorded as a non-cash charge to accumulated other comprehensive income in shareholders equity (deficit). Statement No.106 required that the liability recorded should represent the actuarial present value of all future benefits attributable to an employees service rendered to date. Under both Statement No.87 and Statement No.106, changes in the funded status were not immediately recognized, rather they were deferred and recognized ratably over future periods. Upon adoption of the recognition provisions of Statement No.158, the Company recognized the amounts of prior changes in the funded status of its postretirement benefit plans through accumulated other comprehensive loss. As a result, the Company recognized the following adjustments in individual line items of its consolidated balance sheet as of December31, 2006: PriortoAML and Statement No.158 Adjustments Pretax2006 AML Adjustment PretaxEffect ofAdopting Statement No.158 PostAMLand Statement No.158 Adjustments Accrued employee   related costs $ 69,389 $  $ (69,389 ) $  Defined benefit   obligations  2,516 81,092 83,608 Accumulated other   comprehensive loss (6,028 ) (2,516 ) (11,703 ) (20,247 ) Income tax benefits associated with the effect of adopting Statement No.158 and the 2006 AML adjustment amounted to $4,799 and $1,032, respectively.
I-52 The amounts in accumulated other comprehensive loss that are expected to be recognized as components of net periodic benefit cost (credit) during the next fiscal year are as follows: Total Prior service   cost recognition $ (108 ) Actuarial loss 187 Transition asset   recognition (3 ) Total $ 76 The adoption of Statement No.158 had no effect on the Companys consolidated statement of operations for the year ended December31, 2006, or for any prior period presented and does not have a material impact to any of the Companys debt covenants under its various credit agreements.
Plan Descriptions Qualified and Non-qualified Defined Benefit Plans Cablevision Retirement Plans (collectively, the Cablevision Qualified and Non-qualified Defined Benefit Plans) The Company sponsors a non-contributory qualified defined benefit Cash Balance Retirement Plan (the Retirement Plan) for the benefit of non-union employees other than those of the theater business. Under the Retirement Plan, the Company credits a certain percentage of eligible base pay into an account established for each participant which is credited with a market based rate of return annually.
The Company also maintains an unfunded non-contributory non-qualified defined benefit excess cash balance plan covering certain Company employees who participate in the Retirement Plan and an unfunded supplemental defined benefit plan (the CSC Supplemental Benefit Plan) for the benefit of certain officers and employees of the Company. As part of the CSC Supplemental Benefit Plan, the Company established a nonqualified defined benefit pension plan, which provides that, upon attaining normal retirement age, a participant will receive a benefit equal to a specified percentage of the participants average compensation, as defined. All participants are 100% vested in the CSC Supplemental Benefit Plan.
Madison Square Garden Retirement Plans (collectively, the Madison Square Garden Qualified and Non-qualified Defined Benefit Plans) Madison Square Garden sponsors a non-contributory qualified defined benefit pension plan (MSG Plan) covering its non-union employees hired prior to January1, 2001. Benefits payable to retirees under this plan are based upon years of service and participants compensation.
Madison Square Garden also maintains an unfunded, non-qualified defined benefit pension plan for the benefit of certain employees of Madison Square Garden who participate in the underlying qualified plan. This plan provides that, upon retirement, a participant will receive a benefit based on a formula which reflects the participants compensation. In addition, Madison Square Garden sponsors two non-contributory qualified defined benefit pension plans covering certain of its union employees (MSG Union Plans). Benefits payable to retirees under these plans are based upon years of service and, for one plan, participants compensation, and are funded through trusts established under the plans.
I-53 Other Postretirement Benefit Plan Madison Square Garden sponsors a contributory welfare plan (Madison Square Garden Postretirement Benefit Plan) which provides certain postretirement health care benefits to certain of its employees hired prior to January1, 2001 and their dependents.
Defined Contribution Benefit Plans The Company also maintains the Cablevision CHOICE 401(k) savings plan, a contributory qualified defined contribution plan for the benefit of non-union employees of the Company. The Company also has five additional 401(k) plans covering various union employees, as well as employees of certain businesses. Employees can contribute a percentage of eligible annual compensation and the Company will make a matching cash contribution or discretionary contribution, as defined in the respective plan. In addition, the Company maintains an unfunded non-qualified excess savings plan that the Company provides a matching contribution to similar to the Cablevision CHOICE 401(k) plan. The cost associated with these plans was $16,909, $13,554 and $13,255 for the years ended December31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.
Multi-employer Plans Madison Square Garden also contributes to various multiemployer pension plans. Contributions made to these multiemployer plans for the years ended December31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 amounted to $6,966, $5,846 and $5,516, respectively.
I-54 Plan Results for Defined Benefit Plans Summarized below is the funded status and the amounts recorded on the Companys consolidated balance sheets for all of the Companys qualified and non-qualified defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit plans at December31, 2006 and 2005: CablevisionQualifiedand Non-qualifiedDefined BenefitPlans MadisonSquareGarden Qualifiedand Non-qualifiedDefined BenefitPlans MadisonSquareGarden Postretirement BenefitPlan 2006 2005 2006 2005 2006 2005 Change in benefit   obligation: Benefit   obligation at beginning of year $ 142,922 $ 117,668 $ 93,670 $ 77,921 $ 7,494 $ 6,237 Service cost 29,378 26,593 4,988 4,205 399 415 Interest cost 8,212 6,727 5,441 4,508 361 361 Actuarial loss   (gain) 3,776 682 (2,718 ) 8,538 (1,086 ) 710 Benefits paid (6,632 ) (8,748 ) (1,572 ) (1,502 ) (261 ) (229 ) Benefit   obligation at end of year 177,656 142,922 99,809 93,670 6,907 7,494 Change in plan assets: Fair value of   plan assets at beginning of year 116,604 92,002 45,198 36,905   Actual return on   plan assets 10,737 6,758 5,091 1,236   Employer   contributions 25,511 26,592 5,827 8,559   Benefits paid (6,632 ) (8,748 ) (1,572 ) (1,502 )   Fair value of   plan assets at end of year 146,220 116,604 54,544 45,198   Unfunded status at end   of year (31,436 ) (26,318 ) (45,265 ) (48,472 ) (6,907 ) (7,494 ) Unrecognized   actuarial loss  4,801  17,557  1,662 Unrecognized   prior service cost (credit)    284  (1,315 ) Unrecognized   transition asset    (7 )   Net amount recognized $ (31,436 ) $ (21,517 ) $ (45,265 ) $ (30,638 ) $ (6,907 ) $ (7,147 ) The accumulated benefit obligations for the Cablevision Qualified and Non-qualified Defined Benefit Plans and Madison Square Garden Qualified and Non-qualified Defined Benefit Plans aggregated $252,952 and $215,189 for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively.
The Companys net unfunded liability relating to its defined benefit and other postretirement benefit plans at December31, 2006 is as follows: Cablevision   Qualified and Non-qualified Defined Benefit Plans $ (31,436 ) Madison Square   Garden Qualified and Non-qualified Defined Benefit Plans (45,265 ) Madison Square   Garden Postretirement Benefit Plan (6,907 ) (83,608 ) Less: Current   portion 1,091 Long-term defined   benefit plan and other postretirement plan obligations $ (82,517 ) I-55 Components of the net periodic pension cost, recorded primarily in selling, general and administrative expenses, for the Companys qualified and non-qualified defined benefit and other postretirement plans for the years ended December31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, are as follows: CablevisionQualifiedand Non-qualifiedDefinedBenefitPlans MadisonSquareGarden Qualifiedand Non-qualifiedDefinedBenefitPlans MadisonSquareGarden PostretirementBenefitPlan 2006 2005 2004 2006 2005 2004 2006 2005 2004 Service cost $ 29,378 $ 26,593 $ 26,459 $ 4,988 $ 4,205 $ 4,231 $ 399 $ 415 $ 395 Interest cost 8,212 6,727 5,950 5,441 4,508 4,176 361 361 337 Amortization of   prior service cost          Expected return   on plan assets (9,882 ) (8,046 ) (6,667 ) (3,686 ) (3,032 ) (2,561 )    Recognized prior   service cost (credit) 11 62 62 25 29 40 (133 ) (156 ) (222 ) Recognized   actuarial (gain) loss  93  627 117 212 (4 ) 17 35 Recognized   transition (asset) obligation    (3 ) (3 ) (4 )    Net periodic benefit   cost $ 27,719 $ 25,429 $ 25,804 $ 7,392 $ 5,824 $ 6,094 $ 623 $ 637 $ 545 Plan Assumptions for Defined Benefit Plans Weighted-average assumptions used to determine net periodic cost and benefit obligations for the Cablevision Qualified and Non-qualified Defined Benefit Plans are as follows: Weighted-Average Assumptions Net Periodic Benefit Cost for the Years Ended December 31, Benefit Obligations at December 31, 2006 2005 2004 2006 2005 Discount rate 5.80 % 6.05 % 6.30 % 5.80 % 5.80 % Rate of increase in future compensation levels 4.15 % 4.12 % 4.12 % 4.40 % 4.15 % Rate of return on plan assets (Qualified plans only) 8.00 % 8.00 % 8.00 % N/A N/A I-56 Weighted-average assumptions used to determine net periodic benefit cost and benefit obligations for the Madison Square Garden Qualified and Non-qualified Defined Benefit Plans are as follows: Weighted-AverageAssumptions NetPeriodicBenefitCostforthe YearsEndedDecember31, BenefitObligationsat December31, 2006 2005 2004 2006 2005 Discount rate 5.75 % 6.00 % 6.25 % 6.14 % 5.75 % Rate of increase in   future compensation levels 4.00 % 3.16 % 3.17 % 4.39 % 4.00 % Rate of return on plan assets (Qualified plans only) 8.00 % 8.00 % 8.00 % N/A N/A Prior to 2005, the discount rate used by the Company was based upon published yields for high quality fixed income investments from Moodys and Merrill Lynch. In 2006 and 2005, the discount rate was determined (based on the expected duration of the benefit payments for the pension plan) by referring to applicable bond yields (such as Moodys Aaa Corporate Bonds) and the Buck Consultants Discount Rate Model (which is developed by examining the yields on selected highly rated corporate bonds), to select a rate at which the Company believed the pension benefits could be effectively settled.
The Companys expected long-term return on plan assets is based on a periodic review and modeling of the plans asset allocation structure over a long-term horizon. Expectations of returns for each asset class are the most important of the assumptions used in the review and modeling and are based on comprehensive reviews of historical data and economic/financial market theory. The expected long-term rate of return was selected from within the reasonable range of rates determined by (a)historical real returns, net of inflation, for the asset classes covered by the investment policy, and (b)projections of inflation over the long-term period during which benefits are payable to plan participants.
Weighted-average assumptions used to determine net periodic benefit cost and benefit obligations for the Madison Square Garden Postretirement Plan are as follows: Weighted-AverageAssumptions NetPeriodicBenefitCostfortheYears EndedDecember31, BenefitObligationsat December31, 2006 2005 2004 2006 2005 Discount rate 5.75 % 6.00 % 6.25 % 6.05 % 5.75 % Health care trend rate   assumed for next year 9.00 % 8.00 % 9.00 % 9.00 % 9.00 % Rate to which the cost   trend rate is assumed to decline (the ultimate trend rate) 5.00 % 5.00 % 5.00 % 5.00 % 5.00 % Year that the rate reaches the ultimate trend rate 2012 2009 2009 2013 2012 I-57 Assumed healthcare cost trend rates have a significant effect on the amounts reported for the healthcare plans. A one-percentage point change in the assumed health care cost trend rates would have the following effects: Increase(Decrease)innetPeriodicBenefitCost fortheYearsEndedDecember31, Increase(Decrease)inBenefit ObligationsatDecember31, 2006 2005 2004 2006 2005 One percentage   point increase $ 129 $ 137 $ 131 $ 1,001 $ 1,148 One percentage point   decrease $ (107 ) $ (114 ) $ (110 ) $ (840 ) $ (958 ) Plan Assets and Investment Policy The weighted average asset allocation of Cablevisions qualified plan at December31, 2006 and 2005 was as follows: PlanAssetsatDecember31, 2006 2005 Asset Category: Equity   securities 57 % 57 % Fixed income   securities 34 34 Other 9 9 100 % 100 % The weighted average asset allocation of the MSGs qualified plans at December31, 2006 and 2005 was as follows: PlanAssetsatDecember31, 2006 2005 Asset Category: Equity   securities 62 % 61 % Fixed income   securities 29 32 Other 9 7 100 % 100 % Generally, the plans investment objectives are to invest in portfolios that would obtain a market rate of return throughout economic cycles, commensurate with the investment risk and cash flow needs of the plans. This requires the plans to subject a portion of their assets to increased risk to generate a greater rate of return. The investments in each portfolio are readily marketable and can be sold to fund benefit payment obligations of the plans as they become payable.
I-58 Benefit Payments and Contributions for Defined Benefit Plans The following benefit payments, which reflect expected future service, as appropriate, are expected to be paid relating to Cablevisions Qualified and Non-qualified Defined Benefit plans: 2007 $ 16,033 2008 22,066 2009 28,888 2010 25,435 2011 27,098 2012-2016 152,266 The following benefit payments, which reflect expected future service, as appropriate, are expected to be paid relating to the Madison Square Garden Qualified and Non-qualified Defined Benefit Plans: 2007 $ 2,088 2008 2,376 2009 2,767 2010 2,930 2011 3,063 2012-2016 19,822 Of the amounts expected to be paid in 2007, the Company has recorded $1,091 as a current liability in its consolidated balance sheet at December31, 2006, since this amount represents the aggregate benefit payment obligation payable in the next twelve months that exceeds the fair value of aggregate plan assets at December31, 2006.
The Company makes contributions to the Retirement Plan, the MSG Plan and MSG Union Plans, which are all qualified defined benefit plans. The Company currently expects to contribute approximately $24,000 to the Retirement Plan and contribute to the MSG Plan and MSG Union Plans in 2007 approximately $4,800 and $320, respectively.
NOTE 16. EQUITY AND LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLANS Equity Plans In April 2006, the Companys Board of Directors approved the Cablevision Systems Corporation 2006 Employee Stock Plan and the Cablevision Systems Corporation 2006 Stock Plan for Non-Employee Directors, which was approved by the Companys stockholders at its annual stockholders meeting on May18, 2006.
Under the 2006 Employee Stock Plan, the Company is authorized to grant incentive stock options, nonqualified stock options, restricted shares, restricted stock units, stock appreciation rights and other equity-based awards. The Company may grant awards for up to 23,000,000 shares of Cablevision NY Group ClassA common stock (subject to certain adjustments). Options and stock appreciation rights under the 2006 Employee Stock Plan must be granted with an exercise price of not less than the fair market value of a share of Cablevision NY Group ClassA common stock on the date of grant and must expire no later than 10 years from the date of grant (or up to one additional year in the case of the death of a holder). The terms and conditions of awards granted under the 2006 Employee Stock Plan, including vesting and exercisability, will be determined by the compensation committee of the Board of Directors and may be based upon performance criteria. In 2006, subsequent to stockholder approval, the Company granted options to purchase 1,411,600 shares of the Companys common stock, which will vest over three I-59 years in 33-1/3% annual increments and will expire 10 years from the grant date (or up to one additional year in the case of the death of a holder). In addition, in 2006, subsequent to stockholder approval, the Company granted 1,805,242 restricted shares to employees, which are subject to three year cliff vesting from the date of grant.
Under the 2006 Stock Plan for Non-Employee Directors, the Company is authorized to grant nonqualified stock options, restricted stock units and other equity-based awards. The Company may grant awards for up to 1,000,000 shares of Cablevision NY Group ClassA common stock (subject to certain adjustments). Options under this plan must be granted with an exercise price of not less than the fair market value of a share of Cablevision NY Group ClassA common stock on the date of grant and must expire no later than 10years from the date of grant (or up to one additional year in the case of the death of a holder). The terms and conditions of awards granted under the 2006 Stock Plan for Non-Employee Directors, including vesting and exercisability, will be determined by the compensation committee. Unless otherwise provided in an applicable award agreement, options granted under this plan will be fully vested and exercisable, and restricted stock units granted under this plan will be fully vested, upon the date of grant. Until otherwise determined by the compensation committee, on the date of each annual meeting of the Companys stockholders, each non-employee director will receive restricted stock units with a fair market value of $40,000 and a grant of 4,000 options on such date. In 2006, on the date of the annual meeting of the Companys stockholders, subsequent to stockholder approval, the Company granted its non-employee directors options to purchase an aggregate of 40,000 shares of the Companys common stock which vested on the date of grant and an aggregate of 20,110 restricted stock units which also vested on the date of grant.
Previously, the Company had an employee stock plan (1996 Employee Stock Plan) under which it was authorized to grant incentive stock options, nonqualified stock options, restricted shares, restricted stock units, stock appreciation rights, and bonus awards and a non-employee director stock plan (1996 Non-Employee Director Stock Plan) under which it was authorized to grant options and restricted stock units. The 1996 Employee Stock Plan expired in February 2006 and the 1996 Non-Employee Director Stock Plan expired in May 2006. These plans provided that the exercise price of stock options and stock appreciation rights could not be less than the fair market value per share of Cablevision NY Group ClassA common stock on the date the option was granted and the options expired no later than 10 years from the date of grant (or up to one additional year in the case of the death of a holder of nonqualified options) . As discussed in Note18, a review has determined that during the 1997-2002 period there were a number of instances in which stock options and stock appreciation rights were issued with exercise prices that were lower, and in some cases substantially lower, than the fair market value per share of the Companys common stock on the actual date of grant.
Stock appreciation rights provide for the employee to receive a cash payment in an amount equal to the difference between the fair market value of the stock as of the date the right is exercised, and the exercise price. Options and stock appreciation rights typically vest over three years in 33-1/3% annual increments and expire 10 years from the grant date. Restricted shares are typically subject to three or four year cliff vesting. Performance based options issued under the plans are typically subject to approximately two year or three year cliff vesting, with exercisability subject to performance criteria. Performance based options expire 10 years from the date of grant (or up to one additional year in the case of the death of the holder). Options and restricted stock units issued to non-employee directors fully vest on the date of grant.
As a result of the special dividend (see Note1), options or stock appreciation rights issued under the 1996 Employee Stock Plan and the 1996 Non-Employee Director Stock Plan that were not vested on or prior to December31, 2004 were adjusted to reduce their per share exercise price by the $10.00 amount of the special dividend. The per share exercise price of options or stock appreciation rights that were vested on or prior to December31, 2004 were not adjusted and the holder will receive the $10.00 special dividend I-60 amount upon exercise of the option or right. Holders of restricted shares outstanding on April24, 2006 will receive $10.00 per restricted share when and if the restrictions lapse on such shares. Holders of non-employee director restricted stock units received $10.00 per share underlying such units on the date the special dividend was paid.
Impact of the Adoption of Statement No.123R The Company adopted Statement No.123R using the modified prospective transition method beginning January1, 2006. Accordingly, for the year ended December31, 2006, the Company recorded share-based compensation expense for awards granted prior to, but not yet vested, as of January1, 2006, as if the fair value method required for pro forma disclosure under Statement No.123 were in effect for expense recognition purposes, adjusted for estimated forfeitures. For these awards, the Company has continued to recognize compensation expense using the accelerated attribution method under FASB Interpretation No.28, Accounting for Stock Appreciation Rights and Other Variable Stock Option or Award Plans. For options and performance based option awards granted after January1, 2006, the Company recognizes compensation expense based on the estimated grant date fair value using the Black-Scholes valuation model using a straight-line amortization method.
For restricted shares and restricted stock units granted after January1, 2006, the Company recognizes compensation expense using a straight-line amortization method, based on the grant date price of Cablevision NY Group ClassA common stock over the vesting period, except for restricted stock units granted to non-employee directors which vest 100% and are expensed at the date of grant.
For stock appreciation rights granted after January1, 2006, the Company recognizes compensation expense using a straight-line amortization method based on the estimated fair value at each reporting period using the Black-Scholes valuation model. The Company did not grant any stock appreciation rights during the year ended December 31, 2006.
As Statement No.123R requires that options and performance based option compensation expense be based on awards that are ultimately expected to vest, share-based compensation (which includes options, performance options, restricted stock, restricted stock units and stock appreciation rights) for theyear ended December31, 2006 has been reduced for estimated forfeitures. Forfeitures were estimated based on historical experience. Share-based compensation expense recognized as selling, general and administrative expense for the year ended December31, 2006 amounted to $81,122 (of which $63,894 related to equity classified awards). An income tax benefit of $28,837 was recognized in continuing operations resulting from this share-based compensation expense. In connection with the adoption of Statement No.123R, the Company recorded $862 as a cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle, net of taxes, in the Companys statement of operations for the year ended December31, 2006.
I-61 The following table presents actual expense (income) relating to the Companys stock plan recorded pursuant to Statement No.123R for 2006 and APB25 for 2005 and 2004 and the pro forma information disclosed pursuant to Statement123 for 2005 and 2004: StockPlanExpense(Income) 2006 Actual 2005 Actual 2005 Proforma 2004 Actual 2004 Proforma Stock options $ 25,989 $ 1,007 $ 13,502 $ 3,306 $ 897 Stock appreciation   rights 17,228 (1,367 ) (1,367 ) 2,724 2,724 Restricted shares 37,905 27,155 27,155 28,409 28,409 Share based   compensation $ 81,122 $ 26,795 $ 39,290 $ 34,439 $ 32,030 In connection with the Companys adoption of Statement No.123R, the Company uses the with-and-without approach described in EITF Topic No.D-32, Intraperiod Tax Allocation of the Tax Effect of Pretax Income from Continuing Operations, to determine the recognition and measurement ofexcess tax benefits. Accordingly, due to the Companys current tax position, no income tax benefit has been recognized as an increase to paid in capital with regard to excess tax benefits occurring during the year ended December31, 2006.
Prior to adopting Statement No.123R, the Company presented all tax benefits resulting from the exercise of stock options as operating cash flows in the statement of cash flows. Statement No.123R requires cash flows resulting from excess tax benefits to be classified as a part of cash flows from financing activities. This requirement will reduce net operating cash flows and increase net financing cash flows in periods after the effective date in which the excess tax deductions result in a reduction of income taxes payable. Excess tax benefits are realized tax benefits from tax deductions for options exercised and restricted shares issued in excess of the deferred tax asset attributable to stock compensation costs for such awards. No excess tax benefits for the year ended December31, 2006 were recorded as a result of adopting Statement No.123R. Cash received from option exercises for the years ended December31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 was $15,334, $13,925 and $7,156, respectively. The total income tax benefit recognized pursuant to the exercise of options recorded in stockholders deficiency was $1,256 and $3,388 for the years ended December31, 2005 and 2004, respectively.
Valuation Assumptions - Stock Options The Company calculates the fair value of each option award on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option pricing model. For unvested share-based awards as of January1, 2006, granted prior to 2006, the Companys computation of expected life was determined based on historical experience of similar awards, giving consideration to the contractual terms of the share-based awards and vesting schedules. The interest rate for periods within the contractual life of the award is based on interest yields for U.S.Treasury instruments in effect at the time of grant. The Company applies a dividend yield of zero since it has historically never paid an ordinary dividend. For options granted in 2006, the Companys computation of expected life was based on the simplified method (the average of the vesting period and option term) as prescribed in SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin No.107, Share Based Payments. The following weighted average assumptions were used in calculating the fair value of options granted for the year ended December31, 2006: Weighted average risk-free interest rate - 4.95%, Expected life (in years) - 6.0, Dividend yield - 0%, and Weighted average volatility - 53.33%. The weighted average grant date fair value for options granted in 2006 was $11.46.
I-62 Valuation Assumptions - Stock Appreciation Rights The Company calculates the fair value of each stock appreciation right on the date of grant and at the end of each reporting period using the Black-Scholes option pricing model. The following assumptions were used to calculate the fair value of stock appreciation rights outstanding as of December31, 2006: Weighted average risk-free interest rate - 4.98%, Weighted average expected life (in years) - 1.30, Dividend yield - 0%, and Weighted average volatility - 20.61%. The weighted average grant date fair value of rights outstanding at December31, 2006 was $18.66.
The Companys computation of expected volatility is based on historical volatility of our common stock. The Companys computation of expected life was determined based on historical experience of similar awards, giving consideration to the contractual terms of the stock appreciation rights and vesting schedules through December31, 2006. The interest rate for the period within the contractual life of the award is based on the interest yield for U.S.Treasury instruments in effect at December 31, 2006. The Company applies a dividend yield of zero since it has historically never paid an ordinary dividend.
Share-Based Payment Award Activity The following table summarizes activity for the Companys stock options for the year ended December31, 2006: SharesUnderOption Weighted Weighted Average Time Vesting Options Performance Vesting Options Average Exercise PricePer Share Remaining Contractual Term(in years) Aggregate Intrinsic Value** Balance,   December31, 2005 9,402,430 809,000 $ 21.22 Granted 1,447,000 4,600 20.51 Exercised (1,326,157 )  12.15 Forfeited/Expired (458,907 )  27.94 Balance,   December31, 2006* 9,064,366 813,600 $ 16.60 6.84 $ 156,226 Options   exercisable at December 31, 2006* 5,747,586  $ 16.72 5.35 $ 106,452 Options expected to   vest in the future* 3,166,003 796,852 $ 16.39 8.90 $ 47,897 * As a result of the special dividend (see Note 1), options issued under the 1996 Employee Stock Plan and the 1996 Non-Employee Director Plan that were not vested on or prior to December31, 2004 were adjusted to reduce their per share exercise price by the $10.00 amount of the special dividend. The per share exercise price of options that were vested on or prior to December31, 2004 was not adjusted and the holders will receive the $10.00 special dividend amount upon exercise. The weighted average exercise price per share reflected in the table above has not been adjusted for the special dividend for periods prior to the payment of the special dividend in April 2006.
** The aggregate intrinsic value is calculated as the difference between (i)the exercise price of the underlying award and (ii)the quoted price of the Companys NY Group ClassA common stock on December31, 2006 plus, where applicable, the $10.00 special dividend.
The aggregate intrinsic value is calculated as the difference between the exercise price of the underlying awards and the quoted price of the Companys common stock for the 9,531,533 options outstanding (which included 5,401,153 exercisable options) that were in-the-money at December31, 2006. For the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, the aggregate intrinsic value of options exercised under the Companys stock option plans was $22,794, $12,358 and $8,451, respectively, determined as of the date of option exercise, plus for the 2006 period, the $10.00 special dividend which each holder of options I-63 vested on or prior to December31, 2004 received upon exercise. When an option is exercised, the Company issues new shares of stock.
The following table summarizes activity for the Companys stock appreciation rights and restricted shares (which includes restricted stock units) for the year ended December31, 2006: Stock Appreciation Rights Weighted AverageFair ValuePerShare Restricted Shares Weighted AverageFair ValuePer ShareatDate ofGrant Unvested award   balance, December31, 2005 5,500 $ 7.38 6,549,966 $ 18.85 Granted   1,825,352 20.60 Awards vested (5,500 ) 11.79 (132,492 ) 17.90 Forfeited   (134,187 ) 18.72 Unvested award balance,   December 31, 2006  $  8,108,639 19.26 Outstanding Vested Stock Appreciation Rights Weighted Average ExercisePrice PerShareat December31, 2006 Weighted Average Remaining Contractual Term(inyears) Aggregate Intrinsic Value* Balance,   December 31, 2006 1,600,907 $ 22.25 3.28 $ 28,736 * The aggregate intrinsic value, which will be settled in cash, is calculated as the difference between (i)the exercise price of the underlying award and (ii)the quoted price of the Companys NY Group ClassA common stock plus, where applicable, the $10.00 special dividend.
For the years ended December31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, the aggregate intrinsic value of stock appreciation rights exercised under the Companys stock plans was $11,258, $6,549 and $3,748, respectively, determined as of the date of exercise. The aggregate intrinsic value, which was settled in cash, is calculated as the difference between (i)the exercise price of the underlying awards and (ii)the quoted price of the Cablevision NY Group ClassA common stock as of the date of exercise, plus for the 2006 period, the $10.00 special dividend which each holder of rights vested prior to December 31, 2004 received upon exercise.
As of December31, 2006, there was $65,083 of total unrecognized compensation cost related to the Companys unvested options and restricted shares granted under the Companys stock plans. The unrecognized compensation cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 1.1years.
Pro Forma Information for Periods Prior to the Adoption of Statement No.123R Prior to the adoption of Statement No.123R, the Company had applied the intrinsic value based method of accounting prescribed by APB Opinion No.25 and related interpretations , to account for its share-based compensation awards. Under this method, compensation expense was recorded only if on the date of grant the current market price of the underlying stock exceeded the exercise price. The Company provided the disclosures required under Statement No.123, as amended by Financial Accounting Standards No.148, Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation - Transition and Disclosures. Employee I-64 share-based compensation expense for the years ended December31, 2005 and 2004, is based on the accounting prescribed by APB Opinion No.25 and related interpretations and has not been restated for the adoption of Statement No.123R. Forfeitures of awards were recognized as they occurred.
The table below sets forth the pro forma net income (loss) as if compensation cost was determined in accordance with Statement No.123 for options granted in 1995 through 2005: YearsEndedDecember31 2005 2004 Net income (loss) $ 89,320 $ (678,945 ) Add: Stock based employee compensation cost included   in reported net income (loss), net of taxes 20,703 23,134 Deduct: Stock based employee compensation expense   determined under fair value based method, net of taxes (28,078 ) (21,719 ) Pro forma net   income (loss) $ 81,945 $ (677,530 ) Basic and   diluted net income (loss) per common share: As reported $ 0.32 $ (2.36 ) Pro forma $ 0.29 $ (2.36 ) The Company estimated the fair value of each option grant using the Black-Scholes option pricing model. The following assumptions were used in calculating these fair values: YearsEndedDecember31, 2005 2004 Risk free   interest rate 4.5 % 3.5 % Volatility 57.0 % 55.7 % Dividend Yield 0 % 0 % Weighted average   grant date fair value $ 13.60 $ 10.29 Expected life in years 5.0 5.0 Long-Term Incentive Plans In April 2006, Cablevisions Board of Directors approved the Cablevision Systems Corporation 2006 Cash Incentive Plan, which was approved by Cablevisions stockholders at its annual stockholders meeting in May 2006.
Pursuant to Cablevisions Long-Term Incentive Plan, certain executives have been granted cash awards, some of which are performance based, that vest over varying required service periods and are typically payable at the end of the vesting period or on specified dates. One form of award received by certain executives under the Plan was a performance retention award, vesting over 7 years. The terms of the performance retention awards provide that the executive could have requested a loan from the Company in the amount of the award prior to its vesting, subject to certain limitations, provided that such loan was secured by a lien in favor of the Company on property owned by the executive.
Effective July30, 2002, such requests for advances on amounts of awards are no longer permitted. Imputed interest to those executives on these interest free loans amounted to $900, $911 and $1,293, respectively for the years ended December31, 2006, 2005 and 2004. As of December31, 2006 and 2005, $23,850 was outstanding in respect of advances made pursuant to this plan.
In connection with long-term incentive awards granted under the two plans, the Company has recorded expense of $59,348, $41,959 and $31,505 for the years ended December31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. At December31, 2006 and 2005, the Company had accrued $51,905 and $17,990 for performance-based awards for which the performance criteria had not been met as of December31, 2006 as such awards are based on achievement of certain performance criteria through December31, 2008. The Company currently believes that it is probable that the performance criteria established for these performance-based awards will be met. If the Company subsequently determines that the performance criteria for such awards is not probable of being achieved, the Company would reverse the accrual in respect of such award at that time.
I-65 In addition, in 2003, the Company granted certain management employees cash awards that vested in July 2005 when the Company reached certain performance goals. Such awards were amortized ratably over the period in which the Company was expected to achieve these goals, and accordingly recorded expense of $2,380 and $18,868 in respect of these awards in 2005 and 2004, respectively.
NOTE 17.
CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS Future cash payments required under unconditional purchase obligations pursuant to contracts entered into by the Company in the normal course of business are as follows as of December31, 2006: PaymentsDuebyPeriod Total Year1 Years2-3 Years4-5 Morethan 5years Off balance sheet   arrangements: Programming   obligations(1) $ 2,902,599 $ 828,101 $ 1,175,374 $ 699,735 $ 199,389 Purchase   obligations(2) 2,208,418 474,833 446,360 269,695 1,017,530 Guarantees(3) 2,221 2,221    Letters of   credit(4) 54,295 2,300 1,722  50,273 Total 5,167,533 1,307,455 1,623,456 969,430 1,267,192 Contractual obligations   reflected on the balance sheet: Purchase obligations(5) 87,707 57,026 9,593 6,592 14,496 Total $ 5,255,240 $ 1,364,481 $ 1,633,049 $ 976,022 $ 1,281,688 (1) Programming obligations represent contractual commitments with various programming vendors to provide video services to the Companys subscribers. Future fees under such contracts are based on numerous factors, including the number of subscribers receiving the programming. Amounts reflected above are based on the number of subscribers receiving the programming as of December 2006 multiplied by the per subscriber rates contained in the executed agreements in effect as of December31, 2006.
(2) Purchase obligation amounts not reflected on the balance sheet consist primarily of (i)long-term rights agreements which provide Madison Square Garden and other regional sports networks with exclusive broadcast rights to certain live sporting events in exchange for minimum contractual payments, (ii)payments under employment agreements that we have with our professional sports teams personnel that are generally guaranteed regardless of employee injury or termination, and (iii)minimum purchase requirements incurred in the normal course of the Companys operations.
(3) Includes outstanding guarantees primarily by CSC Holdings in favor of certain financial institutions in respect of ongoing interest expense obligations and potential early termination events in connection with the monetization of the Companys holdings of Charter Communications common stock. Amounts payable under such monetization guarantees are estimated as of a particular point in time by the financial institution counterparty and are based upon the current price of the underlying common stock and various other assumptions, including stock market volatility and prevailing interest rates. Such guaranteed amounts approximate the fair value of the monetization indebtedness less the sum of the fair values of the underlying stock and the equity collar as reflected in the Companys accompanying consolidated balance sheet.
(4) Consist primarily of letters of credit obtained by CSC Holdings in favor of insurance providers and certain governmental authorities for the Telecommunications Services segment.
(5) Consist principally of amounts earned under employment agreements that we have with our professional sports teams personnel. Other long-term obligations also include deferred carriage payments.
The future cash payments reflected above do not include the impact of potential insurance recoveries or amounts which may be due to the National Basketball Association (NBA) for luxury tax payments.
I-66 The future cash payments reflected above also do not include the payments required under the Companys agreements with EchoStar relating to the launch and operation of the business of Rainbow HD Holdings, LLC, the Companys VOOM HD Networks high-definition television programming service. EchoStar was issued a 20% interest in Rainbow HD Holdings, the Companys subsidiary owning the VOOM HD Networks programming service, and that 20% interest will not be diluted until $500,000 in cash has been invested in Rainbow HD Holdings by the Company. Under the terms of the affiliation arrangements with EchoStar covering the VOOM HD Networks for a 15year term, if Rainbow HD Holdings fails to spend $100,000 per year up to a maximum of $500,000 in the aggregate, on its service offerings, EchoStar may terminate the affiliation agreement. The Company has the right to terminate the affiliation agreement if the VOOM HD Networks are discontinued in the future. On the fifth or eighth anniversary of the effective date of the agreement, the termination of the affiliation agreement by EchoStar, or other specified events, EchoStar has a put right to require a wholly-owned subsidiary of Rainbow Media Holdings to purchase all of its equity interests in Rainbow HD Holdings at fair value. On the seventh or tenth anniversary of the effective date of the agreement, or the second anniversary date of the termination of the Affiliation Agreement by EchoStar, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Rainbow Media Holdings has a call right to purchase all of EchoStars ownership in Rainbow HD Holdings at fair value.
Many of the Companys franchise agreements and utility pole leases require the Company to remove its cable wires and other equipment upon termination of the respective agreements. The Company has concluded that the fair value of these asset retirement obligations cannot be reasonably estimated since the range of potential settlement dates is not determinable.
NOTE 18. LEGAL MATTERS Tracking Stock Litigation In August 2002, purported class actions naming as defendants Cablevision and each of its directors were filed in the Delaware Chancery Court. The actions, which allege breach of fiduciary duties and breach of contract with respect to the exchange of the Rainbow Media Group tracking stock for Cablevision NY Group common stock, were purportedly brought on behalf of all holders of publicly traded shares of Rainbow Media Group tracking stock. The actions sought to (i)enjoin the exchange of Rainbow Media Group tracking stock for Cablevision NY Group common stock, (ii)enjoin any sales of Rainbow Media Group assets, or, in the alternative, award rescissory damages, (iii)if the exchange is completed, rescind it or award rescissory damages, (iv)award compensatory damages, and (v)award costs and disbursements. The actions were consolidated into one action on September17, 2002, and on October3, 2002, Cablevision filed a motion to dismiss the consolidated action.
The action was stayed by agreement of the parties pending resolution of a related action brought by one of the plaintiffs to compel the inspection of certain books and records of Cablevision. On October26, 2004, the parties entered into a stipulation dismissing the related action, and providing for Cablevisions production of certain documents. On December13, 2004, plaintiffs filed a consolidated amended complaint. Cablevision filed a motion to dismiss the amended complaint. On April19, 2005, the court granted that motion in part, dismissing the breach of contract claim but declining to dismiss the breach of fiduciary duty claim on the pleadings.
In August 2003, a purported class action naming as defendants Cablevision, directors and officers of Cablevision and certain current and former officers and employees of the Companys Rainbow Media Holdings and American Movie Classics subsidiaries was filed in New York Supreme Court by the Teachers Retirement System of Louisiana (TRSL). The actions relate to the August 2002 Rainbow Media Group tracking stock exchange and allege, among other things, that the exchange ratio was based upon a price of the Rainbow Media Group tracking stock that was artificially deflated as a result of the I-67 improper recognition of certain expenses at the national services division of Rainbow Media Holdings. The complaint alleges breaches by the individual defendants of fiduciary duties. The complaint also alleges breaches of contract and unjust enrichment by Cablevision. The complaint seeks monetary damages and such other relief as the court deems just and proper. On October31, 2003, Cablevision and other defendants moved to stay the action in favor of the previously filed actions pending in Delaware or, in the alternative, to dismiss for failure to state a claim. On June10, 2004, the court stayed the action on the basis of the previously filed action in Delaware. TRSL subsequently filed a motion to vacate the stay in the New York action, and simultaneously filed a motion to intervene in the Delaware action and to stay that action. Cablevision opposed both motions. On April19, 2005, the court in the Delaware action denied the motion to stay the Delaware action and granted TRSLs motion to intervene in that action. On June22, 2005, the court in the New York action denied TRSLs motion to vacate the stay in that action.
Cablevision believes the claims in both the Delaware action and the New York action are without merit and is contesting the lawsuits vigorously.
The Wiz Bankruptcy TW, Inc. (TW), a former subsidiary of the Company and operator of The Wiz consumer retail electronics business, is the subject of a Chapter11 bankruptcy proceeding in the U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the District of Delaware. In February 2005, TW filed a complaint in the bankruptcy proceeding against Cablevision and certain of its affiliates seeking recovery of alleged preferential transfers in the aggregate amount of $193,457. Also in February 2005, the Official Committee of Unsecured Creditors of TW (the Committee) filed a motion seeking authority to assume the prosecution of TWs alleged preference claims and to prosecute certain other causes of action. The bankruptcy court granted the Committees motion on or about March10, 2005, thereby authorizing the Committee, on behalf of TW, to continue the preference suit and to assert other claims. On March12, 2005, the Committee filed a complaint in the bankruptcy court against Cablevision, certain of its affiliates, and certain present and former officers and directors of Cablevision and of its former subsidiary Cablevision Electronics Investments, Inc. (CEI). The Committees complaint, as amended, asserts preferential transfer claims allegedly totaling $193,858, breach of contract, promissory estoppel, and misrepresentation claims allegedly totaling $310,000, and fraudulent conveyance, breach of fiduciary duty, and other claims seeking unspecified damages. On June30, 2005, the defendants filed a motion to dismiss several of the claims in the amended complaint. On October31, 2005, the bankruptcy court denied the motion to dismiss. The bankruptcy courts ruling on the motion to dismiss allowed the Committee to proceed with its claims against Cablevision and the other defendants. Cablevision believes that the claims asserted by the Committee are without merit and is contesting them vigorously.
Dolan Family Group 2005 Proposal and Special Dividend Litigation In June and July 2005, a number of shareholder class action lawsuits were filed against Cablevision and its individual directors in the Delaware Chancery Court and the New York State Supreme Court for Nassau County relating to the Dolan Family Group proposal to acquire the outstanding, publicly held interests in Cablevision following a pro rata distribution of Rainbow Media Holdings. On October24, 2005, Cablevision received a letter from the Dolan Family Group withdrawing its June19, 2005 proposal and recommending the consideration of a special dividend. On November17, 2005, the plaintiffs filed a consolidated amended complaint in the New York Supreme Court action to relate to the special dividend proposed by the Dolan Family Group. On February9, 2006, the plaintiffs filed a second amended complaint adding allegations related to the December19, 2005 announcement that the Board had decided not to proceed with the proposed special dividend, and the January31, 2006 announcement that the Board was expected to begin reconsideration of a possible special dividend at its regularly scheduled meeting in March 2006. The amended complaint sought, among other things, to enjoin the payment of the special I-68 dividend proposed by the Dolan Family Group. As set forth below, the Nassau County actions were subsequently dismissed following settlement by the parties. The Delaware Chancery Court action is pending.
On December28, 2005, a purported shareholder derivative complaint was filed in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of New York alleging that certain events during 2005, including those relating to the proposed special dividend, constitute breaches of fiduciary duty. The action was brought derivatively on behalf of Cablevision and names as defendants each member of the Board of Directors. The complaint sought unspecified damages and contribution and indemnification by the defendants for any claims asserted against Cablevision as a result of the alleged breaches. The Eastern District of New York action was dismissed following settlement of the Nassau County actions, as set forth below.
On March27, 2006, Cablevision entered into a memorandum of understanding with respect to the settlement of the actions pending in the New York Supreme Court for Nassau County relating to a proposed special dividend. On April7, 2006, Cablevisions Board of Directors declared a special cash dividend of $10.00 per share which was paid on April24, 2006 to holders of record at the close of business on April18, 2006. A hearing on the proposed settlement was held on September25, 2006. On January5, 2007, the court signed an order approving the settlement and terminating these actions.
Dolan Family Group 2006 Proposal In October 2006, a number of shareholder class action lawsuits were filed against Cablevision and its individual directors in New York Supreme Court, Nassau County, relating to the October8, 2006 offer by the Dolan Family Group to acquire all of the outstanding shares of Cablevisions common stock, except for the shares held by the Dolan Family Group. These lawsuits allege breaches of fiduciary duty and seek injunctive relief to prevent consummation of the proposed transaction and compensatory damages. The trial court ordered expedited discovery, which began in November 2006. On January12, 2007, the Special Transaction Committee of the Board received a revised proposal from the Dolan Family Group to acquire all of the outstanding shares of common stock of Cablevision, except for the shares held by the Dolan Family Group. On January16, 2007, the Special Transaction Committee delivered a letter to Charles F. Dolan and James L. Dolan, rejecting as inadequate the revised proposal. This litigation is pending.
Director Litigation Cablevision was named as a nominal defendant in a purported shareholder derivative complaint filed in the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware. The action was brought derivatively on behalf of Cablevision and named as additional defendants CharlesF. Dolan, the Chairman of Cablevision, and Rand Araskog, Frank Biondi, John Malone and Leonard Tow, each of whom was appointed as a director on March2, 2005 by Mr.Dolan and certain other holders of the Companys NY Group ClassB common stock. The complaint alleges that CharlesF. Dolan, as the controlling ClassB shareholder of Cablevision, by purporting to remove three Cablevision Board members (WilliamJ. Bell, Sheila Mahony and Steven Rattner) and replace them with the four new directors, wrongfully interfered with the Boards role in managing the affairs of Cablevision and sought to substitute his judgment of how to proceed with the VOOM service of Cablevisions Rainbow DBS subsidiary above that of the Board. The action seeks, among other things, to preliminarily and permanently enjoin CharlesF. Dolan from interfering with the managerial prerogatives of Cablevisions Board; rescinding the purported appointment of the new directors; rescinding the removal of Mr.Bell, Ms.Mahony and Mr.Rattner as directors and restoring them to their positions as directors and directing CharlesF. Dolan to account to Cablevision for its damages. There have been no developments in the case since May 2005, when the parties agreed that defendants need not respond to the complaint until further notice from the plaintiff.
I-69 Patent Litigation Cablevision is named as a defendant in certain lawsuits claiming infringement of various patents relating to various aspects of our businesses. In certain of these cases other industry participants are also defendants. In certain of these cases we expect that any potential liability would be the responsibility of our equipment vendors pursuant to applicable contractual indemnification provisions. To the extent that the allegations in these lawsuits have been analyzed by us at the current stage of their proceedings, we believe that the claims are without merit and intend to defend the actions vigorously. The final disposition of these actions is not expected to have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position.
Contract Dispute In September 2005, Loral filed an action against Cablevision and Rainbow DBS for breach of contract based on a letter agreement dated March23, 2001 (the Letter Agreement) between Loral and Rainbow DBS. Loral alleges that the sale of the Rainbow-1 satellite and related assets to EchoStar constituted a sale of substantially all of the assets of Rainbow DBS triggering a Make Whole Payment under the Letter Agreement of $33,000 plus interest. A trial in this matter took place in January 2007 in New York Supreme Court for New York County. On January24, 2007, the jury returned a verdict finding that the EchoStar sale had triggered a Make Whole Payment under the Letter Agreement, requiring a payment to Loral of $50,898, including interest, which has been accrued for as of December31, 2006 and reflected as an expense in discontinued operations. Cablevision and Rainbow DBS have filed a motion for judgment as a matter of law, or in the alternative for a new trial, which is pending.
Accounting Related Investigations The improper expense recognition matter previously reported by the Company has been the subject of investigations by the SEC and the U.S. Attorneys Office for the Eastern District of New York. The SEC is continuing to investigate the improper expense recognition matter and the Companys timing of recognition of launch support, marketing and other payments under affiliation agreements. The Company continues to fully cooperate with such investigations.
Stock Option Related Matters The Company announced on August8, 2006 that, based on a voluntary review of its past practices in connection with grants of stock options and SARs, it has determined that the grant date and exercise price assigned to a number of its stock option and SAR grants during the 1997-2002 period did not correspond to the actual grant date and the fair market value of Cablevisions common stock on the actual grant date. The review was conducted with a law firm that was not previously involved with the Companys stock option plans. The Company has advised the SEC and the U.S. Attorneys Office for the Eastern District of New York of these matters and each has commenced an investigation. The Company received a grand jury subpoena from the U.S. Attorneys Office for the Eastern District of New York seeking documents related to the stock options issues. The Company received a document request from the SEC relating to its informal investigation into these matters. The Company continues to fully cooperate with such investigations.
In addition, in August, September and October 2006, purported derivative lawsuits (including one purported combined derivative and class action lawsuit) relating to the Companys past stock option and SAR grants were filed in New York State Supreme Court for Nassau County, the United States District I-70 Court for the Eastern District of New York, and Delaware Chancery Court for New Castle County, by parties identifying themselves as shareholders of Cablevision purporting to act on behalf of Cablevision. These lawsuits named as defendants certain present and former members of Cablevisions Board of Directors and certain present and former executive officers, alleging breaches of fiduciary duty and unjust enrichment relating to practices with respect to the dating of stock options, recordation and accounting for stock options, financial statements and SEC filings, and alleged violation of IRC162(m). In addition, certain of these lawsuits asserted claims under Sections10(b), 14(a), and 20(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Section 304 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. The lawsuits sought damages from all defendants, disgorgement from the officer defendants, declaratory relief, and equitable relief, including rescission of the 2006 Employee Stock Plan and voiding of the election of the director defendants. On October27, 2006, the Board of Directors of Cablevision appointed GroverC. Brown and ZacharyW. Carter as directors and, on the same date, appointed Messrs.Brown and Carter to a newly formed special litigation committee (SLC) of the Board. The SLC was directed by the Board to review and analyze the facts and circumstances surrounding these claims, which purport to have been brought derivatively on behalf of the Company, and to consider and determine whether or not prosecution of such claims is in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders, and what actions the Company should take with respect to the cases. The SLC, through its counsel, filed motions in all three courts to intervene and to stay all proceedings until completion of the SLCs independent investigation of the claims raised in these actions. The Delaware action subsequently was voluntarily dismissed without prejudice by the plaintiff. The actions pending in Nassau County have been consolidated and a single amended complaint has been filed in that jurisdiction. Similarly, the actions pending in the Eastern District of New York have been consolidated and a single amended complaint has been filed in that jurisdiction. Both the Nassau County action and the Eastern District of New York action assert derivative claims on behalf of the Company as well as direct claims on behalf of Cablevision shareholders relating to the Companys past stock option and SAR grants. On November14, 2006, the trial court in the Nassau County action denied the SLCs motion for a stay of proceedings and ordered expedited discovery. The Appellate Division of the New York State Supreme Court subsequently stayed all proceedings in the Nassau County action (including all discovery) pending the SLCs appeal of the denial of its stay motion. The SLCs appeal has been fully submitted but has not been scheduled for oral argument. In the Eastern District of New York action, the trial court has issued a stay of all proceedings until May1, 2007.
We have incurred substantial expenses in 2006 for legal, accounting, tax and other professional services in connection with the Companys voluntary review of its past practices in connection with grants of stock options and SARs, the preparation of the restated financial statements, stock option related litigation, and the investigations by the SEC and the U.S. Attorneys Office for the Eastern District of New York.
Other Matters In addition to the matters discussed above, the Company is party to various lawsuits, some involving claims for substantial damages. Although the outcome of these other matters cannot be predicted with certainty and the impact of the final resolution of these other matters on the Companys results of operations in a particular subsequent reporting period is not known, management does not believe that the resolution of these other lawsuits will have a material adverse effect on the financial position of the Company or the ability of the Company to meet its financial obligations as they become due.
I-71 NOTE 19.
DISCLOSURES ABOUT THE FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Cash and Cash Equivalents, Restricted Cash, Accounts Receivable, Trade, Notes and Other Receivables, Prepaid Expenses and Other Assets, Advances to Affiliates, Accounts Payable, Accounts Payable to Affiliates and Accrued Liabilities.
The carrying amount approximates fair value due to the short-term maturity of these instruments.
Derivative Contracts and Liabilities Under Derivative Contracts Derivative contracts are carried on the accompanying consolidated balance sheets at fair value based on dealer quotes.
Investment Securities and Investment Securities Pledged as Collateral Marketable securities are carried on the accompanying consolidated balance sheets at their fair value based upon quoted market prices.
Bank Debt, Collateralized Indebtedness, Notes Payable, Senior Notes and Debentures and Senior Subordinated Notes and Debentures The fair values of each of the Companys debt instruments are based on quoted market prices for the same or similar issues or on the current rates offered to the Company for instruments of the same remaining maturities.
Interest Rate Swap Agreements Interest rate swap agreements are carried on the accompanying consolidated balance sheets at fair value based on valuations provided by a derivative valuation system using current market interest rate data. These values represent the estimated amount the Company would receive or pay to terminate agreements, taking into consideration current interest rates.
I-72 The fair value of the Companys debt instruments are summarized as follows: December31,2006 Carrying Amount Estimated FairValue Debt   instruments: Bank debt $ 4,992,500 $ 4,992,500 Collateralized indebtedness 921,574 901,035 Senior notes and debentures 5,993,956 6,032,589 Senior subordinated notes and debentures 497,011 551,682 Notes payable 18,843 19,165 $ 12,423,884 $ 12,496,971 December31,2005 Carrying Amount Estimated FairValue Debt   instruments: Bank debt $ 1,851,500 $ 1,851,500 Collateralized indebtedness 1,170,126 1,171,731 Senior notes and debentures 5,992,760 5,888,636 Senior subordinated notes and debentures 746,621 819,982 Notes payable 15,905 15,778 $ 9,776,912 $ 9,747,627 Fair value estimates related to our debt instruments and interest rate swap agreements discussed above are made at a specific point in time, based on relevant market information and information about the financial instrument. These estimates are subjective in nature and involve uncertainties and matters of significant judgment and therefore cannot be determined with precision. Changes in assumptions could significantly affect the estimates.
Minority Interest in Limited-Life Partnership The Company consolidates a 60% majority-owned interest in a limited-life partnership. The estimated liquidation value of the 40% minority interest is approximately $133,600 and $106,000 as of December31, 2006 and 2005, respectively, compared to the carrying value of such minority interest of $48,430 and $53,820, respectively. Such liquidation value estimate is made at a specific point in time based on relevant market information and consideration regarding current and expected future operating performance. These estimates are subjective in nature and involve uncertainties and matters of significant judgment and therefore cannot be determined with precision. Changes in assumptions could significantly affect the estimates.
NOTE 20. SEGMENT INFORMATION The Company classifies its business interests into three segments: Telecommunications Services, consisting principally of its video, high-speed data, Voice over Internet Protocol and its commercial data and voice services operations; Rainbow, consisting principally of interests in national and regional cable television programming networks, including AMC, IFC, WEtv, fuse and the VOOM HD Networks; and Madison Square Garden, which owns and operates professional sports teams, regional cable television networks and an entertainment business. Beginning in the first quarter of 2005, the VOOM HD Networks have been included in the Rainbow Segment. Those channels were previously included in the Rainbow DBS segment which has been discontinued. Prior period segment information has been reported on a comparable basis.
The Companys reportable segments are strategic business units that are managed separately. The Company evaluates segment performance based on several factors, of which the primary financial measure is business segment adjusted operating cash flow (defined as operating income (loss) before depreciation and amortization (including impairments), stock plan income or expense and restructuring charges or credits), a non-GAAP measure. The Company has presented the components that reconcile adjusted operating cash flow to operating income (loss), an accepted GAAP measure. Information as to the operations of the Companys business segments is set forth below.
I-73 YearsEndedDecember31, 2006 2005 2004 Revenues, net from continuing   operations Telecommunications   Services $ 4,237,707 $ 3,606,765 $ 3,123,956 Rainbow 885,986 825,561 806,394 Madison Square Garden 854,040 804,395 778,754 All other(a) 84,391 85,385 86,765 Intersegment   eliminations (134,662 ) (149,628 ) (163,332 ) $ 5,927,462 $ 5,172,478 $ 4,632,537 Intersegment eliminations are primarily affiliate revenues recognized by our Rainbow and MSG segments from the sale of cable network programming to our Telecommunication Services segment.
YearsEndedDecember31, 2006 2005 2004 Intersegment revenues Telecommunications   Services $ 1,529 $ 2,420 $ 7,123 Rainbow 38,438 48,547 62,650 Madison Square Garden 94,695 98,661 93,559 $ 134,662 $ 149,628 $ 163,332 Reconciliation (by Segment and in Total) of Adjusted Operating Cash Flow to Operating Income (Loss) from Continuing Operations YearsEndedDecember31, 2006 2005 2004 Adjusted operating cash flow   from continuing operations Telecommunications   Services $ 1,668,554 $ 1,412,199 $ 1,226,790 Rainbow 161,119 158,513 59,852 Madison Square Garden 72,396 120,440 170,057 All other(b) (81,642 ) (80,632 ) (69,894 ) $ 1,820,427 $ 1,610,520 $ 1,386,805 YearsEndedDecember31, 2006 2005 2004 Depreciation and amortization   (including impairments) included in continuing operations Telecommunications   Services $ (915,724 ) $ (843,177 ) $ (786,485 ) Rainbow (106,556 ) (113,429 ) (213,896 ) Madison Square Garden (60,160 ) (62,834 ) (45,445 ) All other(c) (46,373 ) (64,203 ) (92,849 ) $ (1,128,813 ) $ (1,083,643 ) $ (1,138,675 ) I-74 YearsEndedDecember31, 2006 2005 2004 Stock expense   included in continuing operations Telecommunications   Services $ (39,485 ) $ (14,657 ) $ (16,318 ) Rainbow (25,673 ) (6,513 ) (7,650 ) Madison Square   Garden (14,232 ) (3,836 ) (3,769 ) All other(c) (1,732 ) (1,789 ) (6,702 ) $ (81,122 ) $ (26,795 ) $ (34,439 ) YearsEndedDecember31, 2006 2005 2004 Restructuring   credits (charges) included in continuing operations Telecommunications   Services $ 17 $ (295 ) $ (736 ) Rainbow (143 )  77 Madison Square   Garden  (366 ) (4,146 ) All other(c) 3,610 1,198 5,640 $ 3,484 $ 537 $ 835 YearsEndedDecember31, 2006 2005 2004 Operating   income (loss) from continuing operations Telecommunications   Services $ 713,362 $ 554,070 $ 423,251 Rainbow 28,747 38,571 (161,617 ) Madison Square   Garden (1,996 ) 53,404 116,697 All other(b) (126,137 ) (145,426 ) (163,805 ) $ 613,976 $ 500,619 $ 214,526 I-75 A reconciliation of reportable segment amounts to the Companys consolidated balances is as follows: YearsEndedDecember31, 2006 2005 2004 Operating income (loss) from   continuing operations before income taxes Total operating income   for reportable segments $ 740,113 $ 646,045 $ 378,331 Other operating loss(b) (126,137 ) (145,426 ) (163,805 ) Operating income 613,976 500,619 214,526 Items excluded from   operating income (loss): Interest expense (928,202 ) (764,508 ) (721,008 ) Interest income 37,187 16,430 8,300 Equity in net   income (loss) of affiliates 6,698 3,219 (12,997 ) Gain on sale of   programming and affiliate interests, net  64,968 2,232 Gain (loss) on   investments, net 290,052 (138,312 ) 134,598 Write-off of   deferred financing costs (14,083 )  (18,961 ) Gain (loss) on   derivative contracts, net (253,712 ) 119,180 (165,305 ) Loss on   extinguishment of debt (13,125 )  (78,571 ) Minority   interests (8,894 ) (5,471 ) (50,307 ) Miscellaneous,   net 2,837 651 63 Loss from continuing   operations before income taxes $ (267,266 ) $ (203,224 ) $ (687,430 ) (a) Represents net revenues of Clearview Cinemas and PVI Virtual Media, which was consolidated in the second quarter of 2004 in accordance with FIN No.46. In May 2005, Cablevision exchanged its 60% interest in PVI Latin America for the 40% interest in the rest of PVI that it did not already own.
(b) Principally includes unallocated corporate general and administrative costs, in addition to the operating results of Clearview Cinemas and PVI Virtual Media. It also includes costs allocated to Fox Sports Net Ohio, Fox Sports Net Florida, Fox Sports Net Chicago and Rainbow DBS (distribution operations) that were not eliminated as a result of the disposition or shut down of these businesses.
(c) Includes expenses and/or credits relating to Clearview Cinemas, PVI Virtual Media, certain corporate expenses/credits and certain costs allocated to Fox Sports Net Ohio, Fox Sports Net Florida, Fox Sports Net Chicago and Rainbow DBS (distribution operations) that were not eliminated as a result of the disposition or shut down of these businesses.
December31, 2006 2005 Assets Telecommunications   Services $ 6,636,723 $ 4,558,423 Rainbow(d) 2,377,835 2,573,132 Madison Square   Garden 1,852,913 1,893,525 Corporate, other   and intersegment eliminations (1,022,614 ) 818,475 Assets held for   sale  7,557 $ 9,844,857 $ 9,851,112 (d) Rainbow assets include amounts due from the Rainbow DBS distribution business of $276,245 and $271,277 at December31, 2006 and 2005, respectively, which are eliminated in consolidation.
YearsEndedDecember31, 2006 2005 2004 Capital   Expenditures Telecommunications   Services $ 819,747 $ 695,327 $ 621,480 Rainbow 21,062 29,063 44,313 Madison Square   Garden 23,444 20,993 12,153 Corporate and   other 22,044 23,909 19,568 $ 886,297 $ 769,292 $ 697,514 I-76 Substantially all revenues and assets of the Companys reportable segments are attributed to or located in the United States and are primarily concentrated in the New York metropolitan area.
NOTE 21. INTERIM FINANCIAL INFORMATION (Unaudited) The following is a summary of selected quarterly financial data for the years ended December31, 2006 and 2005: 2006: March31, June30, September30, December31, Total 2006 2006 2006 2006 2006 Revenues, net $ 1,409,358 $ 1,423,923 $ 1,408,736 $ 1,685,445 $ 5,927,462 Operating   expenses (1,305,631 ) (1,257,420 ) (1,273,301 ) (1,477,134 ) (5,313,486 ) Operating income $ 103,727 $ 166,503 $ 135,435 $ 208,311 $ 613,976 Income (loss)   from continuing operations $ (54,722 ) $ (26,116 ) $ (58,736 ) $ 6,525 $ (133,049 ) Income (loss)   from discontinued operations, net of taxes (2,386 ) 40,702 (421 ) (30,449 ) 7,446 Income (loss)   before cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle (57,108 ) 14,586 (59,157 ) (23,924 ) (125,603 ) Cumulative   effect of a change in accounting principle, net of taxes (862 )    (862 ) Net income   (loss) $ (57,970 ) $ 14,586 $ (59,157 ) $ (23,924 ) $ (126,465 ) Basic   and diluted income (loss) per share: Income (loss)   from continuing operations $ (0.19 ) $ (0.09 ) $ (0.21 ) $ 0.02 $ (0.47 ) Income (loss)   from discontinued operations $ (0.01 ) $ 0.14 $  $ (0.11 ) $ 0.03 Net income (loss) $ (0.20 ) $ 0.05 $ (0.21 ) $ (0.08 ) $ (0.45 ) I-77 2005: March31, June30, September30, December31, Total 2005 2005 2005 2005 2005 Revenues, net $ 1,213,126 $ 1,231,859 $ 1,241,745 $ 1,485,748 $ 5,172,478 Operating expenses (1,145,457 ) (1,136,790 ) (1,133,888 ) (1,255,724 ) (4,671,859 ) Operating income $ 67,669 $ 95,069 $ 107,857 $ 230,024 $ 500,619 Income (loss) from   continuing operations $ (95,698 ) $ (26,963 ) $ (63,822 ) $ 58,950 $ (127,533 ) Income (loss) from   discontinued operations net of taxes (30,439 ) 240,761 870 5,661 216,853 Net income (loss) $ (126,137 ) $ 213,798 $ (62,952 ) $ 64,611 $ 89,320 Basic and diluted income (loss)   per share: Basic and diluted   income (loss) from continuing operations $ (0.33 ) $ (0.09 ) $ (0.22 ) $ 0.21 $ (0.45 ) Basic and diluted   income (loss) from discontinued operations $ (0.11 ) $ 0.84 $  $ 0.02 $ 0.77 Basic and diluted net income (loss) $ (0.44 ) $ 0.74 $ (0.22 ) $ 0.23 $ 0.32 NOTE 22. OTHER MATTERS Settlement with Time Warner On September29, 2005, AMC and Time Warner Entertainment, L.P. settled existing litigation whereby the Company simultaneously entered into 11 separate affiliation agreements with Time Warner. These agreements included amendments and enhancements to existing affiliation agreements for some of the Companys programming services and new affiliation agreements and new distribution for other programming services of the Company. The amendments included a long-term extension of Time Warners affiliation agreement with AMC with rate and positioning terms that are favorable to AMC. Because of the long-term benefits to the Company from the extension and enhancement of the AMC agreement, substantially all of the required payments ($74,000 is payable to Time Warner over the 2005-2007 period) attributable to AMC have been capitalized as deferred carriage fees and will be amortized as a reduction to revenue over the remaining 13 year life of the extended AMC agreement.
New York Mets Agreement Termination In the second quarter of 2004, Madison Square Garden received $54,052 in cash in connection with the New York Mets notice of termination of their broadcast rights agreement with Madison Square Garden. The termination of the rights agreement was effective at the end of the 2005 baseball season. As a result of the termination notice, the Company recorded a reversal of a purchase accounting liability of $41,788 related to this broadcast rights agreement. These items have been reflected as other operating income in the Companys 2004 consolidated statement of operations.
I-78 Resolutions of Contract Disputes In June 2006, the Company collected $26,500related to the resolution of a contractual programming dispute, $19,476 of which was due in periods prior to 2006 but not recognized as a reduction to programming costs because it was being disputed and was not being paid by the affiliate. The underlying contract was terminated in June 2006 and no further payments will be received under the contract.
In connection with the resolution of another contract dispute, Fox Sports Net Chicago, which was shut down in June 2006, recorded $77,996 of affiliate revenue in June 2006 including $71,396, relating to periods prior to 2006, that had not been previously recognized due to the dispute. Such affiliate revenue has been reported in discontinued operations. The underlying contract was terminated in June 2006 and no further payments will be received under the contract.
I-79 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm The Board of Directors and Stockholder CSC Holdings, Inc.: We have audited managements assessment, included in the accompanying Managements Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting , that CSC Holdings, Inc. and subsidiaries maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of December31, 2006, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO).
CSC Holdings, Inc.s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on managements assessment and an opinion on the effectiveness of the Companys internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.
We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, evaluating managements assessment, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
A companys internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A companys internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the companys assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
In our opinion, managements assessment that CSC Holdings, Inc. and subsidiaries maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of December31, 2006, is fairly stated, in all material respects, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO).
Also, in our opinion, CSC Holdings, Inc. and subsidiaries maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December31, 2006, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO).
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheets of CSC Holdings, Inc. and subsidiaries as of December31, 2006 and 2005, and the related consolidated statements of operations, stockholders deficiency and comprehensive income (loss), and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December31, 2006, and our report dated February27, 2007 expressed an unqualified opinion on those II-1 consolidated financial statements.
As discussed in our report dated February27, 2007, the Company changed its method of quantifying errors in 2006 in accordance with Securities and Exchange Commission Staff Accounting Bulletin No.108, Considering the Effects of Prior Year Misstatements when Quantifying Misstatements in Current Year Financial Statements , adopted the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No.123 (Revised 2004), Share-Based Payment as of January1, 2006 and adopted the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No.158, Employers Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans, as of December31, 2006.
/s/ KPMG LLP Melville, New York February 27, 2007 II-2 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm The Board of Directors and Stockholder CSC Holdings, Inc.: We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of CSC Holdings, Inc. and subsidiaries as of December31, 2006 and 2005, and the related consolidated statements of operations, stockholders deficiency and comprehensive income (loss), and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December31, 2006. In connection with our audits of the consolidated financial statements, we also have audited the financial statement schedule listed in Item15(a)(2). These consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedule are the responsibility of the Companys management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedule based on our audits.
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of CSC Holdings, Inc. and subsidiaries as of December31, 2006 and 2005, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December31, 2006, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Also in our opinion, the related financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein.
As discussed in Notes1 and 2 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements, the Company changed its method of quantifying errors in 2006 in accordance with Securities and Exchange Commission Staff Accounting Bulletin No.108, Considering the Effects of Prior Year Misstatements when Quantifying Misstatements in Current Year Financial Statements , adopted the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No.123 (Revised 2004), Share-Based Payment as of January1, 2006 and adopted the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No.158, Employers Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans, as of December31, 2006.
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the effectiveness of CSC Holdings, Inc. and subsidiaries internal control over financial reporting as of December31, 2006, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO), and our report dated February27, 2007 expressed an unqualified opinion on managements assessment of, and the effective operation of, internal control over financial reporting.
/s/ KPMG LLP Melville, New York February 27, 2007 II-3 CSC HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBIDIARIES (a wholly-owned subsidiary of Cablevision Systems Corporation) CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS December 31, 2006 and 2005 (Dollars in thousands) 2006 2005 ASSETS Current Assets: Cash and cash equivalents $ 414,604 $ 394,969 Restricted cash 11,390 8,454 Accounts   receivable, trade (less allowance for doubtful accounts of $17,345 and   $18,807) 536,057 453,167 Notes and other   receivables 46,718 74,141 Investment   securities 10,715 647 Prepaid expenses   and other current assets 104,577 98,921 Feature film   inventory, net 124,778 108,607 Deferred tax   asset 236,037 58,049 Advances to   affiliates 229,677 121,128 Investment   securities pledged as collateral 18,981 723,476 Derivative   contracts 81,140 268,539 Assets held for   sale  7,557 Total current   assets 1,814,674 2,317,655 Property, plant and   equipment, net of accumulated depreciation of $6,257,078 and $5,494,994 3,714,842 3,868,077 Investments in affiliates 49,950 39,463 Notes and other   receivables 29,659 42,987 Investment securities   pledged as collateral 1,080,229 199,430 Derivative contracts  109,207 Other assets 80,273 83,801 Feature film inventory,   net 375,700 378,502 Deferred carriage fees,   net 174,377 188,135 Franchises 731,848 731,848 Affiliation, broadcast   and other agreements, net of accumulated amortization of $417,634 and   $349,752 452,888 519,363 Other intangible   assets, net of accumulated amortization of $77,795 and $68,192 325,298 388,622 Excess costs over fair   value of net assets acquired 1,032,117 993,426 Deferred financing and   other costs, net of accumulated amortization of $55,445 and $77,014 111,373 97,285 $ 9,973,228 $ 9,957,801 See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements II-4 CSC HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES (a wholly-owned subsidiary of Cablevision Systems Corporation) CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (continued) December 31, 2006 and 2005 (Dollars in thousands, expect share and per share amounts) 2006 2005 LIABILITIES AND   STOCKHOLDERS DEFICIENCY Current   Liabilities: Accounts payable $ 392,605 $ 373,362 Accrued liabilities Interest 194,634 149,083 Employee related costs 328,360 288,751 Other accrued expenses 412,231 489,989 Defined benefit plan and other postretirement plan   obligations 1,091  Deferred revenue 162,956 162,514 Feature film and other contract obligations 122,362 112,817 Liabilities under derivative contracts 6,568 101,580 Bank debt 93,750 8,560 Collateralized indebtedness 102,268 857,774 Capital lease obligations 7,069 8,586 Notes payable 17,826 8,438 Senior notes and debentures 499,952  Total current liabilities 2,341,672 2,561,454 Defined benefit   plan and other postretirement plan obligations 82,517  Feature film and   other contract obligations 312,344 351,673 Deferred revenue 14,337 16,219 Deferred tax   liability 262,843 109,309 Liabilities   under derivative contracts 204,887 17,571 Other liabilities 243,808 361,018 Bank debt 4,898,750 1,842,940 Collateralized   indebtedness 819,306 312,352 Senior notes and   debentures 3,994,004 4,492,760 Senior   subordinated notes and debentures 497,011 746,621 Notes payable 1,017 7,467 Capital lease   obligations 54,389 51,201 Minority   interests 49,670 55,190 Total liabilities 13,776,555 10,925,775 Commitments and   contingencies Stockholders   Deficiency: Series A Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, 200,000   shares authorized, none issued   Series B Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock,   200,000 shares authorized, none issued   8% Series D Cumulative Preferred Stock, $.01 par   value, 112,500 shares authorized, none issued ($100 per share liquidation   preference)   Common stock, $.01 par value, 20,000,000 shares   authorized, 11,595,635 and 9,529,987 shares issued and outstanding 116 95 Paid-in capital 120,017 2,392,805 Accumulated deficit (3,911,510 ) (3,357,312 ) (3,791,377 ) (964,412 ) Accumulated other comprehensive loss (11,950 ) (3,562 ) Total stockholders deficiency (3,803,327 ) (967,974 ) $ 9,973,228 $ 9,957,801 See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements II-5 CSC HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES (a wholly-owned subsidiary of Cablevision Systems Corporation) CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS Years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 (Dollars in thousands) 2006 2005 2004 Revenues, net $ 5,927,462 $ 5,172,478 $ 4,632,537 Operating expenses: Technical and   operating (excluding depreciation, amortization and impairments shown below) 2,707,970 2,296,908 2,191,247 Selling, general   and administrative 1,480,187 1,291,845 1,184,682 Other operating   income   (95,758 ) Restructuring   credits (3,484 ) (537 ) (835 ) Depreciation and   amortization (including impairments) 1,128,813 1,083,643 1,138,675 5,313,486 4,671,859 4,418,011 Operating income 613,976 500,619 214,526 Other income (expense): Interest expense (795,418 ) (640,010 ) (635,960 ) Interest income 33,229 16,341 8,300 Equity in net   income (loss) of affiliates 6,698 3,219 (12,997 ) Gain on sale of   programming and affiliate interests, net  64,968 2,232 Gain (loss) on   investments, net 290,052 (138,312 ) 134,598 Write-off of   deferred financing costs (14,083 )  (18,961 ) Gain (loss) on   derivative contracts, net (253,712 ) 119,180 (165,305 ) Loss on extinguishment   of debt (13,125 )  (78,571 ) Minority   interests (8,894 ) (5,471 ) (50,307 ) Miscellaneous,   net 2,837 828 63 (752,416 ) (579,257 ) (816,908 ) Loss from continuing   operations before income taxes (138,440 ) (78,638 ) (602,382 ) Income tax   benefit 81,386 24,698 166,272 Loss from continuing   operations (57,054 ) (53,940 ) (436,110 ) Income (loss)   from discontinued operations, net of taxes (including net gain primarily from   the Regional Programming Partners restructuring of $269,428 in 2005) 7,446 216,853 (185,476 ) Income (loss) before   extraordinary item (49,608 ) 162,913 (621,586 ) Extraordinary loss on   investment, net of taxes   (7,436 ) Income (loss) before   cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle (49,608 ) 162,913 (629,022 ) Cumulative effect of a   change in accounting principle, net of taxes (862 )   Net income (loss) $ (50,470 ) $ 162,913 $ (629,022 ) See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
II-6 CSC HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES (a wholly-owned subsidiariy of Cablevision Systems Corporation) CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS DEFICIENCY AND COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS) Years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 (Dollars in thousands) Common Stock Paid-in Capital Accumulated Deficit Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income(Loss) Total Balance at   December31, 2003, $ 53 $ 899,083 $ (2,891,203 ) $ (952 ) $ (1,993,019 ) Net loss   (629,022 )  (629,022 ) Minimum pension liability adjustment, net of taxes    (2,792 ) (2,792 ) Foreign currency translation, net of taxes    (191 ) (191 ) Comprehensive loss (632,005 ) Tax benefit related to stock options  (63 )   (63 ) Net contributions from Cablevision 11 1,413,220   1,413,231 Employee and non-employee stock transactions  (113 )   (113 ) Issuance of Cablevision restricted shares to   employees  30,460   30,460 Balance at   December31, 2004 64 2,342,587 (3,520,225 ) (3,935 ) (1,181,509 ) Net income   162,913  162,913 Minimum pension liability adjustment, net of taxes    182 182 Foreign currency translation, net of taxes    191 191 Comprehensive income 163,286 Tax benefit related to stock options  1,256   1,256 Employee and non-employee director stock transactions  32,259   32,259 Gain on issuance of members interest by subsidiary,   net  10,397   10,397 Contribution from shareholder  6,337   6,337 Net contributions from Cablevision 31 (31 )    Balance at   December31, 2005 $ 95 $ 2,392,805 $ (3,357,312 ) $ (3,562 ) $ (967,974 ) Cumulative effect of adjustments resulting from the   adoption of SAB No. 108, net of tax (Note2)   121,668  121,668 Adjusted balance   at January 1, 2006 95 2,392,805 (3,235,644 ) (3,562 ) (846,306 ) Net loss   (50,470 )  (50,470 ) Minimum pension liability adjustment, net of taxes    (1,484 ) (1,484 ) Comprehensive income (51,954 ) Adjustment related to initial application of FASB   Statement No. 158, net of tax (Note 15)    (6,904 ) (6,904 ) Employee and non-employee director stock   transactions  59,914   59,914 Distributions to   Cablevision relating to special cash dividend paid to CNYG Class A and CNYG   Class B shareholders  (2,332,681 ) (625,396 )  (2,958,077 ) Issuance of   stock to Cablevision 21 (21 )  Balance at   December31, 2006 $ 116 $ 120,017 $ (3,911,510 ) $ (11,950 ) $ (3,803,327 ) See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
II-7 CSC HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES (a wholly-owned subsidiary of Cablevision Systems Corporation) CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS Years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 (Dollars in thousands) 2006 2005 2004 Cash flows from   operating activities: Loss from   continuing operations $ (57,054 ) $ (53,940 ) $ (436,110 ) Adjustments to   reconcile loss from continuing operations to net cash provided by operating   activities: Depreciation and   amortization (including impairments) 1,128,813 1,083,643 1,138,675 Non-cash other   operating income   (41,788 ) Equity in net   (income) loss of affiliates (6,698 ) (3,219 ) 12,997 Minority   interests 8,894 5,471 50,307 Gain on sale of   programming and affiliate interests, net  (64,968 ) (2,232 ) Loss (gain) on   investments, net (284,542 ) 138,312 (134,598 ) Write-off of   deferred financing costs 14,083  18,961 Unrealized loss   (gain) on derivative contracts, net 218,740 (156,082 ) 149,911 Loss on extinguishment   of debt 13,125  3,987 Equity   classified stock based compensation expense 63,894 29,002 30,341 Deferred income   tax (90,932 ) (34,191 ) (173,034 ) Amortization and   write-off of feature film inventory 123,827 113,926 192,682 Amortization of   deferred financing costs, discounts on indebtedness and other deferred costs 75,699 80,664 110,459 Provision for   doubtful accounts 41,412 34,534 32,001 Change in assets   and liabilities, net of effects of acquisitions and dispositions: Accounts   receivable, trade (109,445 ) (80,371 ) (69,132 ) Notes and other   receivables 48,569 11,435 (20,763 ) Note receivable   from affiliate   12,877 Inventory,   prepaid expenses and other assets 1,387 (11,159 ) 5,259 Advances/payables   to affiliates (122,917 ) (114,253 ) 2,834 Feature film   inventory (137,196 ) (142,703 ) (258,371 ) Other deferred   costs (14,931 ) (99,203 ) (17,690 ) Accounts payable 41,170 30,606 11,915 Accrued   liabilities 57,584 86,208 (7,010 ) Feature film and   other contract obligations (29,784 ) (222 ) 129,777 Deferred revenue (3,820 ) 25,671 1,669 Deferred   carriage payable (17,336 ) 45,371 4,782 Minority   interests  243 (947 ) Net cash   provided by operating activities 962,542 924,775 747,759 Cash flows from   investing activities: Capital   expenditures (886,297 ) (769,292 ) (697,514 ) Payments for   acquisitions, net of cash acquired  (4,231 ) (84,738 ) Proceeds from   sale of equipment, net of costs of disposal 17,704 5,407 (194 ) Decrease   (increase) in investments in affiliates, net (1,000 ) (420 ) 32,664 Proceeds from   sale of investment   2,029 Decrease in   investment securities and other investments 907 164 61 Decrease   (increase) in restricted cash (2,936 ) 27,342 (35,797 ) Additions to   other intangible assets (1,551 ) (12,886 ) (8,826 ) Net cash used in   investing activities $ (873,173 ) $ (753,916 ) $ (792,315 ) See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
II- 8 CSC HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBIDIARIES (a wholly-owned subsidiary of Cablevision Systems Corporation) CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (continued) Years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 (Dollars in thousands) 2006 2005 2004 Cash flows from   financing activities: Proceeds from bank debt $ 5,463,000 $ 554,614 $ 3,342,095 Repayment of bank debt (2,322,000 ) (1,192,614 ) (3,209,247 ) Redemption of senior   subordinated notes and debentures (263,125 )  (350,000 ) Issuance of senior   notes   1,293,922 Proceeds from collateralized   indebtedness 595,035 210,973 125,100 Repayment of   collateralized indebtedness (548,867 ) (222,623 ) (121,239 ) Principal payments on   capital lease obligations and other debt (8,739 ) (11,956 ) (16,245 ) Redemption of preferred   stock   (1,694,622 ) Capital contribution   (distribution) from (to) Cablevision, net (2,958,077 )  1,413,231 Proceeds from derivate   contracts 6,496 6,462  Settlement of   derivative contracts (50,864 )   Deemed net capital   contribution from shareholder  6,337  Additions to deferred   financing and other costs (47,540 ) (70 ) (37,970 ) Distributions to   minority partners (14,709 ) (9,659 ) (1,748 ) Net cash provided by   (used in) financing activities (149,390 ) (658,536 ) 743,277 Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash   equivalents  191 (191 ) Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents   from continuing operations (60,021 ) (487,486 ) 698,530 Cash flows of   discontinued operations: Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities 75,189 (64,535 ) (73,860 ) Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities 4,467 80,174 (84,816 ) Net change in cash classified in assets held for   sale  95,337 1,624 Net effect of discontinued operations on cash and   cash equivalents 79,656 110,976 (157,052 ) Cash and cash   equivalents at beginning of year 394,969 771,479 230,001 Cash and cash   equivalents at end of year $ 414,604 $ 394,969 $ 771,479 See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
II- 9 CSC HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES (a wholly-owned subsidiary of Cablevision Systems Corporation) NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts) NOTE 1.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES The Company and Related Matters CSC Holdings, Inc. (CSC Holdings or the Company), is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Cablevision Systems Corporation (Cablevision). The Company and its majority-owned subsidiaries own and operate cable television systems and through its subsidiary, Rainbow Media Holdings LLC, have ownership interests in companies that produce and distribute national and regional entertainment and sports programming services, including Madison Square Garden, L.P. The Company also owns companies that provide advertising sales services for the cable television industry, provide telephone service, operate motion picture theaters, and through April30, 2005, provided direct broadcast satellite service. The Company classifies its business interests into three segments: Telecommunications Services, consisting principally of its video, high-speed data, Voice over Internet Protocol and its commercial data and voice services operations; Rainbow, consisting principally of interests in national and regional cable television programming networks, including AMC, IFC, WE tv (formerly WE:Womens Entertainment), fuse and the VOOM HD Networks; and Madison Square Garden, which owns and operates professional sports teams, regional cable television networks and an entertainment business.
Principles of Consolidation The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and its majority-owned subsidiaries and certain variable interest entities. All significant intercompany transactions and balances are eliminated in consolidation.
Revenue Recognition The Company recognizes video, high-speed data, Voice over Internet Protocol, and telephony revenues as the services are provided to subscribers. Installation revenue for our video, consumer high-speed data and Voice over Internet Protocol services is recognized as installations are completed, as direct selling costs have exceeded this revenue in all periods reported. The Company classifies amounts billed to its customers for franchise and regulatory fees as a component of revenue.
The Companys programming businesses recognize affiliate fees from cable system, direct broadcast satellite operators and telecommunications companies as the programming is provided. Advertising revenues are recognized when commercials are aired. In some advertising sales arrangements, the Companys programming businesses guarantee specified viewer ratings for their programming. For these types of transactions, a portion of such revenue is deferred if the guaranteed viewer ratings are not met and is subsequently recognized either when the Company provides the required additional advertising time, the guarantee obligation contractually expires or performance becomes remote.
Revenues derived from other sources are recognized when services are provided or events occur.
Multiple-Element Transactions If there is objective and reliable evidence of fair value for all elements of accounting in a multiple-element arrangement, the arrangement consideration is allocated to the separate elements of accounting based on relative fair values. There may be cases in which there is objective and reliable evidence of the fair value of undelivered items in an arrangement but no such evidence for the delivered items. In those II-10 cases, the Company utilizes the residual method to allocate the arrangement consideration. Under the residual method, the amount of consideration allocated to the delivered items equals the total arrangement consideration less the aggregate fair value of the undelivered items. In determining fair value, the Company refers to historical transactions or comparable cash transactions.
The Company may enter into affiliation agreements which are documented in one or more contracts; however negotiated contemporaneously. Amounts paid/received by the Company may differ from the amounts that would have been paid/received if such arrangements were negotiated separately. Judgments made in determining fair value impact the amount and period in which revenues are recognized over the term of the individual affiliation agreements.
Technical and Operating Expenses Costs of revenue related to sales of services are classified as technical and operating expenses in the accompanying statements of operations.
Programming Costs The Companys cable television business included in the Telecommunications Services segment has received, or may receive, incentives from programming distributors for carriage of the distributors programming. The Company recognizes these incentives as a reduction of programming costs in technical and operating expense, generally over the term of the programming agreement.
Programming Rights Rights acquired to broadcast various professional sports teams events and programming for exhibition on the Companys networks, are expensed over the contract or license period. Estimated future revenues are reviewed regularly and write-downs to net realizable value are made as required. Estimates of total gross revenues can change due to a variety of factors, including the level of advertising rates and subscriber fees. Accordingly, revenue estimates are reviewed periodically and amortization is adjusted as necessary.
Rights to feature film inventory acquired under license agreements along with the related obligations are recorded at the contract value when a license agreement is executed or the license period has begun, unless there is uncertainty with respect to either costs, acceptability or availability, then when the uncertainty is resolved. Costs are amortized to technical and operating expense on a straight-line basis over the respective license periods. The Company periodically reviews the programming usefulness of feature film inventory based on a series of factors, including ratings, type and quality of program material, standards and practices, and fitness of exhibition based on the programming of the individual programming service. If it is determined that substantially all of the films in a film license agreement have no future programming usefulness and will no longer be exploited, a write-off for the portion of the unamortized cost of the film license agreement that was attributed to those films is recognized.
See Note5 for a discussion of the Companys review of the programming usefulness of our feature film inventory and impairment charges.
II-11 Advertising Expenses Advertising costs are charged to expense when incurred. Advertising costs amounted to $222,839, $204,019 and $195,046 for the years ended December31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.
Restricted Cash Restricted cash at December31, 2006 and 2005 of $11,390 and $8,454, respectively, includes cash required to be set aside under operating agreements between Madison Square Garden and the Hartford Civic Center, Rentschler Field, and the National Hockey League, and for collateralized letters of credit entered into by Madison Square Garden.
Accounts Receivable The Company periodically assesses the adequacy of valuation allowances for uncollectible accounts receivable by evaluating the collectibility of outstanding receivables and general factors such as length of time individual receivables are past due, historical collection experience, and the economic and competitive environment.
Investments Investment securities and investment securities pledged as collateral are classified as trading securities and are stated at fair value with realized and unrealized holding gains and losses included in net income (loss).
The Companys interests in less than majority-owned entities in which the Company has the ability to exercise significant influence over the operating and financial policies of the investee are accounted for under the equity method. Equity method investments are recorded at original cost and adjusted to recognize the Companys proportionate share of the investees net income or losses, additional contributions made and distributions received and amortization of basis differences. The Company recognizes a loss if it is determined that an other than temporary decline in the value of the investment exists.
Long-Lived and Indefinite-Lived Assets Property, plant and equipment, including construction materials, are carried at cost, and include all direct costs and certain indirect costs associated with the construction of cable television transmission and distribution systems, and the costs of new product and subscriber installations. Equipment under capital leases is recorded at the present value of the total minimum lease payments. Depreciation on equipment is calculated on the straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the assets or, with respect to equipment under capital leases and leasehold improvements, amortized over the shorter of the lease term or the assets useful lives and reported in depreciation and amortization (including impairments) in the consolidated statements of operations.
Intangible assets established in connection with acquisitions consist of affiliation agreements and affiliation relationships, broadcast rights and other agreements (primarily cable television system programming agreements), season ticket holder relationships, suite holder contracts and relationships, advertising relationships, other intangibles and excess costs over fair value of net assets acquired. These intangible assets are amortized on a straight-line basis over their respective estimated useful lives. Excess II-12 costs over fair value of net assets acquired (goodwill) and the value of franchises, trademarks and certain other intangibles acquired in purchase business combinations which have indefinite useful lives are not amortized.
The Company reviews its long-lived assets (property, plant and equipment, and intangible assets subject to amortization that arose from business combinations accounted for under the purchase method) for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. If the sum of the expected cash flows, undiscounted and without interest, is less than the carrying amount of the asset, an impairment loss is recognized as the amount by which the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its fair value.
The Company evaluates the recoverability of its goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets annually or more frequently whenever events or circumstances indicate that the asset may be impaired. Goodwill impairment is determined using a two-step process. The first step of the goodwill impairment test is used to identify potential impairment by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount, including goodwill. If the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, the second step of the goodwill impairment test is performed to measure the amount of impairment loss, if any. The second step of the goodwill impairment test compares the implied fair value of the reporting units goodwill with the carrying amount of that goodwill. If the carrying amount of the reporting units goodwill exceeds the implied fair value of that goodwill, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to that excess. The implied fair value of goodwill is determined in the same manner as the amount of goodwill which would be recognized in a business combination.
The impairment test for other intangible assets not subject to amortization consists of a comparison of the fair value of the intangible asset with its carrying value. If the carrying value of the intangible asset exceeds its fair value, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to that excess.
Feature Film Obligations Amounts payable subsequent to December31, 2006 related to the license of feature film inventory are as follows: YearsEndingDecember31, 2007 $ 121,890 2008 84,152 2009 67,288 2010 48,988 2011 29,685 Thereafter 82,231 Deferred Carriage Fees Deferred carriage fees represent amounts principally paid or payable to cable system and/or satellite operators to guarantee carriage of certain programming services and are amortized as a reduction to revenue over the period of the related guarantee (1 to 15 years).
II-13 Deferred Financing Costs Costs incurred to obtain debt are deferred and amortized to interest expense using the straight-line method over the life of the related debt.
Income Taxes Income taxes are provided based upon the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No.109, Accounting for Income Taxes, which requires the asset and liability method of accounting for deferred income taxes and permits the recognition of deferred tax assets, subject to an ongoing assessment of realizability. The Company provides deferred taxes for the outside basis difference of its investment in partnerships.
Income (Loss) Per Common Share Basic and diluted net income (loss) per common share are not presented since the Company is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Cablevision.
Comprehensive Income (Loss) Comprehensive income (loss), which is reported on the accompanying consolidated statements of stockholders deficiency consists of net income (loss) and other gains and losses affecting shareholders equity or attributed net assets that, under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), are excluded from net income (loss). These components of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) consist primarily of minimum pension liability adjustments, net of taxes and in 2005 and 2004 foreign currency translation gains (losses), net of taxes.
In 2006, 2005 and 2004, the accumulated benefit obligation of the Companys defined benefit plans exceeded the fair value of plan assets. As a result, the Company recorded a non-cash charge (benefit) to accumulated comprehensive loss, net of taxes, of $1,484, $(182) and $2,792, respectively, as required by SFAS No.87 Employers Accounting for Pensions (Statement No.87). Additionally, as of December31, 2006, the Company adopted the recognition and disclosure provisions of SFAS No.158, Employers Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans (Statement No.158) as described in Note 15. As a result of adopting Statement No.158 in 2006, the Company recognized an additional $6,904, net of taxes, which was also charged to accumulated other comprehensive loss, net of taxes.
Reclassifications Certain reclassifications have been made to the 2005 financial statements to conform to the 2006 presentation. In addition, the operating results of Fox Sports Net Chicago have been classified as discontinued operations in the consolidated statements of operations and cash flows for all periods presented.
II-14 Cash Flows For purposes of the consolidated statements of cash flows, the Company considers short-term investments with a maturity at date of purchase of three months or less to be cash equivalents.
During 2006, 2005 and 2004, the Companys non-cash investing and financing activities and other supplemental data were as follows: YearsEndedDecember31, 2006 2005 2004 Non-Cash Investing and Financing Activities: Continuing Operations Acquisition of the 40% minority interest in certain   Regional Programming Partners entities in exchange for the Companys   interests in Fox Sports Net Ohio, Fox Sports Net Florida, National Sports   Partners and National Advertising Partners $  $ 604,080 $  Notes payable, including interest, contributed by   News Corporation to Regional Programming Partners for no consideration  152,907  Capital   lease obligations 11,751 180 2,952 Asset   retirement obligations 136 10,870  Leasehold improvements paid by landlord 1,960   Investment in affiliate 1,294   Redemption of collateralized indebtedness with   restricted cash and related prepaid forward contracts  116,544  Redemption of collateralized indebtedness with   related prepaid forward contracts and stock 290,943 247,647  Redemption of collateralized indebtedness with   related prepaid forward contracts 31,385 43,604  Redemption of collateralized indebtedness associated   with AT&T Wireless shares with restricted cash, net of related forward   contract  105,000 Receipt of restricted cash for AT&T Wireless   shares  213,647 Rights payments offset with repayment of a note   receivable  40,000  Discontinued Operations Make whole payment obligation, including interest,   to Loral 50,898   Supplemental   Data: Cash interest paid - continuing operations $ 704,535 $ 581,127 $ 580,249 Cash interest paid - discontinued operations 15 90 314 Income taxes paid (refunded), net - continuing   operations 11,184 (4,005 ) 6,952 Income taxes   paid (refunded), net - discontinued operations  18 (539 ) Derivative Financial Instruments The Company accounts for derivative financial instruments in accordance with SFAS No.133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, as amended (StatementNo.133). StatementNo.133 requires that an entity recognize all derivatives, as defined, as either assets or liabilities II-15 measured at fair value. The Company uses derivative instruments to manage its exposure to market risks from changes in certain equity prices and interest rates and does not hold or issue derivative instruments for speculative or trading purposes. These derivative instruments are not designated as hedges, and changes in the fair values of these derivatives are recognized in earnings as gains (losses) on derivative contracts.
Concentrations of Credit Risk Financial instruments that may potentially subject the Company to a concentration of credit risk consist primarily of cash and cash equivalents and trade receivables. Cash is invested in money market funds, bank time deposits or in obligations of the U.S. Treasury. The Companys cash investments are placed with money market funds or financial institutions that have received the highest rating awarded by Standard & Poors and Moodys Investors Services. The Company did not have a single customer that represented 10% or more of its consolidated net revenues for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively, or 10% or more of its consolidated net trade receivables at December31, 2006 and 2005, respectively.
Use of Estimates in Preparation of Financial Statements The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.
Commitments and Contingencies Liabilities for loss contingencies arising from claims, assessments, litigation, fines and penalties and other sources are recorded when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the assessment can be reasonably estimated.
Recently Adopted Accounting Standards Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans In September 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Statement No.158 which requires companies to recognize in their statement of financial position an asset for a postretirement benefit plans overfunded status or a liability for a plans underfunded status and to measure a plans assets and its obligations that determine its funded status as of the end of the companys fiscal year. Additionally, Statement No.158 requires companies to recognize changes in the funded status of a defined benefit postretirement plan in the year in which the changes occur and to report those changes in comprehensive income (loss). The provisions of Statement No.158 have two separate effective dates. The provision of Statement No.158 that requires a company (with a calendar year-end) to recognize the funded status of its pension plan, and the disclosure requirements, was effective as of December31, 2006, and the provision of Statement No.158 that requires a company (with a calendar year-end) to measure plan assets and benefit obligations as of the date of its fiscal year-end balance sheet is effective as of December31, 2008. See Note15 for a discussion of the impact of the Companys adoption of Statement No.158.
II-16 Accounting Changes and Error Corrections In June 2005, the FASB issued SFAS No.154, Accounting Changes and Error Corrections - a replacement of APB Opinion No.20 and FASB Statement No.3 (Statement No.154). Statement No.154 applies to all voluntary changes in accounting principle, and changes the requirements for accounting for and reporting of a change in accounting principle. It requires retrospective application to prior periods financial statements of a voluntary change in accounting principle unless it is impracticable. APB Opinion No.20 previously required that most voluntary changes in accounting principle be recognized by including in net income of the period of the change the cumulative effect of changing to the new accounting principle. Statement No.154 requires that a change in method of calculating depreciation, amortization, or depletion for long-lived nonfinancial assets be accounted for as a change in accounting estimate that is affected by a change in accounting principle. APB Opinion No.20 previously required that such a change be reported as a change in accounting principle. Statement No.154 was effective for accounting changes and corrections of errors made by the Company beginning January1, 2006.
Limited Partnerships In June 2005, the EITF reached a consensus on Issue No.04-5, Determining Whether a General Partner, or the General Partners as a Group, Controls a Limited Partnership or Similar Entity When the Limited Partners Have Certain Rights (EITF No.04-5). EITF No.04-5 provides guidance in assessing when a general partner should consolidate its investment in a limited partnership or similar entity. The provisions of EITF No.04-5 were required to be applied beginning June30, 2005 by general partners of all newly formed limited partnerships and for existing limited partnerships for which the partnership agreements are modified subsequent to June30, 2005 and the provisions of EITF No.04-5 were effective for general partners in all other limited partnerships beginning January1, 2006. EITF No.04-5 did not have any impact on the Companys financial position or results of operations upon adoption.
NOTE 2. STAFF ACCOUNTING BULLETIN NO. 108 On September13, 2006, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No.108 (SABNo.108), Considering the Effects of Prior Year Misstatements when Quantifying Misstatements in Current Year Financial Statements. SABNo.108 is effective for the Companys year ended December31, 2006. The primary concepts set forth in SABNo.108 are as follows:  Registrants should quantify errors using both the rollover approach and iron curtain approach (collectively referred to as the dual approach) and evaluate whether either approach results in quantifying a misstatement that, when all relevant quantitative and qualitative factors are considered, is material. The rollover approach focuses primarily on the impact of a misstatement on the income statement, including the reversing effect of prior year misstatements. Because the focus is on the income statement, the rollover approach can lead to the accumulation of misstatements in the balance sheet that may become material. The iron curtain approach focuses primarily on the effect of correcting for the accumulated misstatement as of the balance sheet date, essentially correcting the balance sheet with less emphasis on the reversing effects of prior year errors on the income statement.
If correcting an error in the current year materially affects the current year but the item was not material in any prior year, the prior year financial statements should be corrected, even II-17 though such revision previously was and continues to be immaterial to the prior year financial statements. However, in this circumstance, correcting prior year financial statements for immaterial errors does not require amending previously filed financial statements - the correction can be made the next time the prior year financial statements are filed.
For purposes of evaluating materiality under the iron curtain approach, all uncorrected errors on the balance sheet are presumed to be reversed into the statement of operations in the current period even though some or all of the uncorrected difference may relate to periods prior to the latest statement of operations presented and, therefore, would only impact opening accumulated earnings (deficit). If the amount of the uncorrected difference(s) is determined to be material to the current period statement of operations, then such amount would be deemed material and would have to be corrected for in the manner set forth above.
SABNo. 108 provides for the following transition guidance in the initial period of adoption:  Restatement of prior years is not required if the registrant properly applied its previous approach, either rollover or iron curtain approach, so long as all relevant qualitative factors were considered.
The SEC Staff will not object if a registrant records a one-time cumulative effect adjustment to correct errors existing in prior years that previously had been considered immaterial - quantitatively and qualitatively - based on the appropriate use of the registrants previous approach.
If prior years are not restated, the cumulative effect adjustment is recorded in opening accumulated earnings (deficit) as of the beginning of the fiscal year of adoption (e.g. January1, 2006 for a calendar year company).
Historically, the Company has evaluated uncorrected differences utilizing the rollover approach. The Company believes its prior period assessments of uncorrected differences utilizing the rollover approach and the conclusions reached regarding its quantitative and qualitative assessments of materiality of such uncorrected differences, individually and in the aggregate, were appropriate. In accordance with the guidance set forth in SAB No.108, the Company has corrected certain identified historical uncorrected balance sheet differences, which arose prior to January1, 2006, as a cumulative effect adjustment to opening accumulated deficit as of January1, 2006 in accordance with the dual approach set forth in SAB No.108 as discussed above. The requirement to adopt the guidance set forth in SAB No.108, including the estimated impact, was initially disclosed in the Companys Form10-Q for the quarter ended June30, 2006.
II-18 The following table summarizes the impact of applying the guidance set forth in SAB No.108 on the Companys 2006 opening accumulated deficit balance: AdditionalIncome(Expense) PeriodinwhichtheUncorrectedDifferencesOriginated Cumulative Uncorrected Differencesas of December31, 2003 YearsEndedDecember31, Adjustment Recordedasof January1, 2006to Accumulated Deficit 2004 2005 Excess accrual balances   and other items, net of taxes (a) $ 103,865 $ 531 $ (1,952 ) $ 102,444 Tax adjustment relating   to disability insurance (b) 1,858 (1,497 ) 9,734 10,095 Rent expense, net of   taxes (c) (6,756 ) (914 ) (766 ) (8,436 ) Revenue related to   promotional rates, net of taxes (d) 311 5,325 4,845 10,481 Video on demand   revenue, net of related expenses and taxes (e) 791 45 54 890 Programmer audit   accruals, net of taxes (f) 216 1,348 373 1,937 Disability and life   insurance accruals, net of taxes (g) 1,564 389 254 2,207 Goodwill amortization,   net of taxes (h) 2,076  (26 ) 2,050 Impact on accumulated   deficit $ 103,925 $ 5,227 $ 12,516 $ 121,668 (a) In periods prior to 2000, the Company had determined that certain accounts payable and accrued liability account balances (including accruals for programming costs, non-income based taxes, workers compensation, franchise fees, health and dental, and pensions, among others) which had accumulated over a number of years to an aggregate $108,646, net of taxes, as of December31, 2003, were not supportable as liabilities that the Company would be required to satisfy. These amounts were substantially frozen as of December31, 1999. Historically, the Company had concluded that such prior year uncorrected differences were quantitatively and qualitatively immaterial to the Companys prior year financial statements using the rollover method. This adjustment also includes $2,190, net of taxes, as of December 31, 2003, representing an excess reserve for unreturned analog converters that was not adjusted in prior periods to reflect actual losses and $(3,677), net of taxes, as of December31, 2003, relating to unreconciled cash receipts. Additionally, this adjustment includes goodwill aggregating $3,292, net of taxes, as of December31, 2003, and $1,994, net of taxes, for the year ended December 31, 2005, relating primarily to businesses that were sold where such goodwill was not included in their cost basis at the time of their sale for purposes of computing the associated gain on sale.
(b) In calculating the Companys tax provision for periods through December 31, 2005, the Company incorrectly treated tax-exempt disability insurance proceeds as taxable and non-deductible disability insurance premiums as tax deductible with regard to disability insurance arrangements associated with players of certain of the Companys professional sports teams.
(c) The Company historically recorded rent expense related to certain of its operating leases based on the contractual terms of the respective lease agreements instead of on a straight-line basis over the lease term as required by U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. This adjustment represents the impact of correcting the recognition of rent expense to the straight-line basis.
(d) The Company determined that it did not recognize in the appropriate period a portion of revenue earned related to certain cable television customers with promotional rates. This revenue was recognized when the promotional rates expired, generally occurring one year after the promotion commenced. This adjustment represents the revenue that should have been recognized in the respective periods when the services were provided, net of related tax effects.
(e) Prior to 2006, the Company recorded certain revenue from video on demand services as the services were billed to the customer instead of when the services were provided. Such revenue was historically recorded in the subsequent months billing cycle. This adjustment reflects the recognition of revenue, net of related expenses and taxes, which should have been recorded in the respective periods when the services were provided.
(f) The Companys contracts with programming content providers typically allow for periodic audits of the programming payments made by the Company to these providers. The Company records an accrual for a loss contingency related to the associated potential underpayment of programming fees if such amounts are deemed probable and estimable. Based on the Companys review of this accrual balance, it determined that the accrual was overstated in previous years based upon II-19 the occurrence of historical events. This adjustment reflects the reduction of the accrual balance, net of taxes, in the appropriate periods.
(g) The Company determined that its accrual for disability and life insurance premiums for one of the Companys segments was based on an estimate that was not adjusted on a quarterly basis to reflect actual premiums paid. This adjustment reflects the reduction of the accrual, net of taxes, for the respective periods.
(h) In 2002, the Company inappropriately amortized goodwill of $2,076, net of taxes. This adjustment reflects the reversal of the amortization recognized in 2002. U.S. generally accepted accounting principles required the Company to cease amortization of goodwill effective January 1, 2002.
The following table summarizes the impact of applying the guidance in SAB No.108 related to the adjustments described above on the Companys 2006 opening accumulated deficit by segment: AdditionalIncome(Expense) CumulativeUncorrectedDifferencesasofJanuary1,2006 Tele- communications Rainbow Madison SquareGarden Other Total Excess accrual   balances and other items $ 70,045 $ 22,837 $ 4,792 $ 29,737 $ 127,411 Rent expense (10,040 ) (1,380 )  (2,920 ) (14,340 ) Revenue related   to promotional rates 17,768    17,768 Video on demand   revenue, net of related expenses 1,509    1,509 Programmer audit   accruals 3,284    3,284 Disability and   life insurance accruals  3,819   3,819 Goodwill   amortization   3,474  3,474 $ 82,566 $ 25,276 $ 8,266 $ 26,817 142,925 Income tax   expense * (31,352 ) Tax adjustment   relating to disability insurance 10,095 Impact on accumulated   deficit $ 121,668 * The income tax expense impact presented above is less than the amount that would be derived by applying the statutory rate to the aggregate pre-tax adjustment due to an income tax benefit of $28,553 resulting from a decrease in the required amount of the valuation allowance at the beginning of 2002due to thedecrease in deferred tax assets recognized in connection with the adjustments related to the excess accrual balances. The valuation allowance was eliminated later in 2002 in connection with the application of purchase accounting associated with an acquisition.
II-20 The following table summarizes the impact of applying the cumulative effect adjustments discussed above to the Companys consolidated balance sheet, including the impact on accumulated deficit, as of December31, 2005, as recognized effective January1, 2006: Cumulative Effect Adjustment Recordedin Accumulated Deficitasof January1,2006 Increase (Decrease) Accounts   receivable, trade $ 14,570 Deferred tax   asset (10,788 ) Total current assets 3,782 Property, plant and equipment 3,714 Investment in   affiliates 341 Deferred tax   asset (25,662 ) Intangible   assets (1) 45,641 Total assets 27,816 Accounts payable (20,639 ) Accrued employee   related costs (15,515 ) Other accrued   expenses (102,844 ) Deferred tax   liability 29,649 Total current liabilities (109,349 ) Deferred tax   liabilities 1,470 Other long-term   liabilities 13,732 Minority   interests 295 Total liabilities (93,852 ) Accumulated deficit   (aggregate cumulative effect adjustment, net of taxes) $ (121,668 ) (1) Includes the impact on previously recorded goodwill related to certain prior period purchase accounting transactions which result from the adjustment to deferred tax assets related to the reversal of the excess accrual balances discussed in footnote (a) above and the item discussed in footnote (h) above.
NOTE 3. TRANSACTIONS 2006 Transactions CSC Holdings Stock On April20, 2006, CSC Holdings issued 2.1million shares of its common stock, $0.01 par value, to Cablevision Systems Corporation (Cablevision) in consideration of previous contributions of cash and assets by acquired Cablevision and were assigned to CSC Holdings in prior years.
II-21 2005 Transactions CSC Holdings Stock In December 2005, CSC Holdings issued 3.1 million shares of common stock, $0.01 par value, to Cablevision in consideration for certain cable systems that Cablevision had acquired and were assigned to CSC Holdings in 1999. The issuance was approved at the time of the assignment but the shares were not issued and delivered until December 2005.
Regional Programming Partners Restructuring In April 2005, the Company and News Corporation restructured their ownership of Regional Programming Partners. Prior to the April 2005 transaction, Regional Programming Partners was owned 60% by the Company and 40% by News Corporation. As a result of the restructuring, the Company now owns 100% of Madison Square Garden, 100% of Fox Sports Net Chicago (which was shut down in June 2006) and 50% of Fox Sports Net New England and therefore, no portion of the results of operations of these businesses is allocated to minority interests after the acquisition. In connection with the restructuring, these businesses extended the terms of their long-term affiliation agreements with National Sports Partners and their advertising representation agreements with National Advertising Partners.
In connection with its December 2003 purchase of the interests that it did not own in Fox Sports Net Chicago and Fox Sports Net Bay Area, subsidiaries of Regional Programming Partners issued promissory notes in the aggregate amount of $150,000 to News Corporation. As part of the restructuring, those promissory notes and accrued interest of $2,907 were contributed by News Corporation to Regional Programming Partners for no additional consideration and were cancelled without any payment being made on them.
National Sports Partners and National Advertising Partners were owned 50% by the Company and 50% by News Corporation. As a result of the restructuring, the Company no longer owns any interest in National Sports Partners, National Advertising Partners, Fox Sports Net Ohio or Fox Sports Net Florida.
The Company and News Corporation continue to own 60% and 40%, respectively, of Fox Sports Net Bay Area through a separate partnership. The Company continues to manage that network. In connection with the restructuring, Fox Sports Net Bay Area extended the terms of its long-term affiliation agreement with National Sports Partners and its advertising representation agreement with National Advertising Partners.
II-22 The Company has accounted for this exchange in accordance with APB Opinion No.29, Accounting for Nonmonetary Transactions and, accordingly, the Company recorded the transaction with News Corporation at fair value at the date of the restructuring. The Company recorded a gain in discontinued operations of $266,810, net of taxes, in connection with the transfer of the Companys interests in Fox Sports Net Ohio and Fox Sports Net Florida. The Company recorded a gain in continuing operations of $66,558 in connection with the transfer of National Sports Partners and National Advertising Partners. In addition, the excess of the net book value of the assets acquired over the purchase price of $94,320 was allocated to specific assets and liabilities based on fair values as follows: UsefulLife Land and   development rights Indefinite $ 37,573 Property and equipment,   net 2 to 27.5 years 12,396 Amortizable   intangible assets: Affiliation   agreements 4 years 17,951 Affiliation relationships 24 years 85,824 Advertiser relationships 7 years 6,004 Season ticket holder relationships 12 to 15 years 73,124 Suite holder contracts and relationships 3 to 11 years 21,167 Indefinite-lived intangible assets: Trademarks 53,880 Sports   franchises 96,215 Excess   costs over fair value of net assets acquired (460,853 ) Other assets and liabilities, net 9,399 Unfavorable contracts (47,000 ) Net step-down to   historical carrying values $ (94,320 ) The Regional Programming Partners restructuring transaction was substantially tax deferred.
The unaudited pro forma revenue, loss from continuing operations, net income (loss), loss per share from continuing operations and net income (loss) per share of the Company, as if the Companys acquisition of the interests in entities exchanged with News Corporation had occurred on January1, 2005 and 2004, are as follows: YearsEndedDecember31, 2005 2004 Revenues $ 5,172,478 $ 4,632,537 Loss from   continuing operations $ (63,795 ) $ (460,641 ) Net income (loss) $ 153,058 $ (653,553 ) Agreements with EchoStar In April 2005, subsidiaries of Cablevision and CSC Holdings entered into agreements with EchoStar Communications Corporation (EchoStar) relating to the launch and operation of the business of Rainbow HD Holdings LLC, the Companys VOOM HD Networks high-definition television programming service. This transaction closed in November 2005. Under those arrangements, EchoStar was initially distributing a portion of the VOOM HD Networks programming service and, beginning in 2006, began carrying 15 of the channels included in the programming service. In connection with the arrangements, EchoStar was issued a 20% interest in Rainbow HD Holdings, the Companys subsidiary owning the VOOM HD Networks, and that 20% interest will not be diluted until $500,000 in cash has been invested in Rainbow HD Holdings equity by the Company.
Under the terms of the affiliation arrangements with EchoStar covering the VOOM HD Networks for a 15 year term, if Rainbow HD Holdings fails to spend $100,000 per year up to a maximum of $500,000 in the aggregate, on its service offerings, EchoStar may terminate the affiliation agreement. The Company has the right to terminate the affiliation agreement if the VOOM HD Networks are discontinued in the future.
The agreements resulted in a non-monetary exchange whereby the Company provided EchoStar a 20% interest in Rainbow HD Holdings in exchange for deferred carriage fees. Accordingly, the Company II-23 recorded deferred carriage fees for the fair value of the 20% interest in Rainbow HD Holdings LLC surrendered of $18,101, which resulted in a gain on the issuance of members interest by a subsidiary of $10,397 (net of transaction costs of $295 and taxes of $7,409). Since Rainbow HD Holdings LLC is a start-up company, the gain was recorded as an increase to paid-in capital.
2004 Transactions DTV Norwich In January 2004, Rainbow DBS Company, LLC (Rainbow DBS), an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, invested $100 for a 49% interest in DTV Norwich, an entity that acquired licenses at auction from the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) to provide multichannel video distribution and data service (MVDDS) in 46 metropolitan areas in the United States.
In connection with the equity investment, the Company loaned DTV Norwich an additional $84,600 for the acquisition of these licenses (the DTV Norwich Transaction). Under the terms of the promissory note with DTV Norwich, the loan was forgiven when the FCC granted the MVDDS licenses to DTV Norwich on July27, 2004 and September23, 2004.
Rainbow DBS also agreed to a put/call option with the other investor in DTV Norwich. Rainbow DBS had a call option to purchase an additional 41% membership interest in DTV Norwich at an exercise price of $4,230. Rainbow DBS exercised its call option on October29, 2004. Rainbow DBS received FCC approval to acquire the 41% membership interest which gave Rainbow DBS control of this entity. The other investor has the right, for ten years, to put its remaining 10% interest to Rainbow DBS at fair value to be determined by a process involving independent valuation experts.
Pursuant to FASB Interpretation No. 46R (FIN No. 46R), Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, this entity was consolidated with the Company as of the date of the transaction, January 2004, since it did not have sufficient equity to demonstrate that it could finance its activities without additional subordinated financial support. The acquired licenses were recorded as other intangible assets and were deemed to have indefinite lives. Since this variable interest entity is not considered a business pursuant to FIN No.46R, the excess of the fair value of the consideration paid and the newly consolidated non-controlling interest over the fair value of the newly consolidated identifiable assets, of $7,436 net of taxes of $5,384, was recorded as an extraordinary loss. In connection with the Companys decision in December 2004 to seek strategic alternatives for the Rainbow DBS business, the Company reduced the carrying value of the acquired licenses to their estimated fair value of $6,113 based on available MVDDS auction value information.
NOTE 4. RESTRUCTURING CHARGES In December 2001, the Company recorded restructuring charges of $56,442 (including $13,720 for discontinued operations) which included expenses of $21,018 (including $9,403 for discontinued operations) associated with the elimination of approximately 600 positions, primarily in corporate, administrative and infrastructure functions across various business units of the Company, and estimated expenses of $35,424 (including $4,317 for discontinued operations) associated with facility realignment and other related costs.
In 2002, the Company announced a new operating plan and restructuring which included the closing of 26 retail electronics store locations, the consolidation of customer service call centers, and the elimination of certain staff positions. Additionally, the Company reached an agreement with its supplier of set top boxes II-24 which reduced the Companys purchase commitments for set top boxes from $378,500 in 2002, $378,500 in 2003, and $567,750 in 2004 to a total remaining commitment of $87,500 in 2002 and nothing thereafter and required the Company to make certain other cash payments aggregating $50,000 plus interest on a portion of such amount with respect to, among other things, a license for certain software (valued at $17,500 based on an independent appraisal). In connection with this plan, the Company recorded restructuring charges of $85,965 (including $11,553 for discontinued operations) which included $22,072 (including $3,642 for discontinued operations) associated with the elimination of approximately 3,000 positions, $31,393 (including $7,911 for discontinued operations) associated with facility realignment and other related costs and $32,500 associated with the reduction in required digital set top box commitments.
In 2003, the Company eliminated staff positions and incurred severance costs aggregating $6,111.
During 2006, 2005 and 2004, the Company recorded restructuring charges aggregating $392, $1,024 and $4,756, respectively, associated with the elimination of certain positions in various business units of the Company and facility realignment costs.
At December31, 2006, the restructuring liability of $4,201 was classified as a current liability in the consolidated balance sheet.
II-25 The following table summarizes the restructuring liability, net of related sublease amounts, at December31, 2006: 2001 Plan 2001 Plan 2002 Plan 2002 Plan 2003 Plan 2004 Plan 2005 Plan 2006 Plan Employee Severance Facility Realignment andOther Costs (b) Employee Severance Facility Realignment andOther Costs (a)(b) Employee Severance Employee Severance Employee Severance Facility Realignment Balance at   December31, 2003 $ 3 $ 19,212 $ 207 $ 39,623 $ 2,258 $  $  $  Additional charges   (credits)  (5,589 ) (68 ) (172 ) 238 4,756   Payments (3 ) (7,242 ) (139 ) (9,218 ) (2,418 ) (3,818 )   Balance at   December31, 2004  6,381  30,233 78 938   Additional charges   (credits)  (1,480 )  (578 ) 234 263 1,024  Payments  (3,114 )  (28,857 ) (312 ) (1,201 ) (1,001 )  Balance at   December31, 2005  1,787  798   23  Additional charges   (credits)  (4,521 )  525   (23 ) 392 Payments and accrual of   sublease receivable, net  2,734  (1,323 )    (290 ) Accrued restructuring balance at December31, 2006 $  $  $  $  $  $  $  $ 102 (a) In August 2005, the Company made a $25,000 payment to satisfy its required commitment with a supplier associated with the 2002 restructuring plan.
(b) For the year ended December 31, 2006, the Company recorded restructuring credits of $3,996 relating primarily to changes to the Companys previous estimates recorded in connection with the 2001 and 2002 facility realignment. Based on the restructuring credits recorded and payments made by the Company, the restructuring liability relating to these plans, net of sublease amounts, as of December 31, 2006 was zero.
In addition to the facility realignment charges of $392 in 2006 which are expected to be completed by June 2009, the Company recorded restructuring charges of $143 associated with the elimination of approximately ten positions at a programming business within the Rainbow segment (which was fully paid as of December 31, 2006).
II-26 The cumulative amount of restructuring charges incurred by the Company for continuing operations for each of the restructuring plans are as follows: 2001 Plan 2002 Plan 2003 Plan 2004 Plan 2005 Plan 2006 Plan Total Employee severance $ 15,108 $ 19,586 $ 6,583 $ 5,019 $ 1,001 $ 143 $ 47,440 Facility realignment and other costs 23,234 54,545    392 78,171 Cumulative restructuring   charges recognized as of December31, 2006 $ 38,342 $ 74,131 $ 6,583 $ 5,019 $ 1,001 $ 535 $ 125,611 NOTE 5. IMPAIRMENT CHARGES In connection with the Companys Board of Directors decision in December 2004 to suspend pursuing the spin-off of its Rainbow Media Enterprises subsidiary and instead to pursue strategic alternatives for its Rainbow DBS business, the Company performed a review of its assets for recoverability. The Company recorded an impairment charge of $90,540 included in depreciation and amortization expense relating to long-lived assets and other indefinite-lived intangible assets and a charge of $75,805 included in technical and operating expenses representing the write down of certain film and programming contracts of the VOOM HD Networks within the Rainbow segment. In addition, the Company recorded an impairment charge of $155,415 reflecting the excess of the carrying value over the estimated fair value of long-term assets and goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets and a charge of $33,052 representing the write-off of equipment inventory and deposits which have been recorded in discontinued operations.
The impairment charges related to film and programming contracts, equipment inventory and deposits are based on net realizable value and the impairment charges related to goodwill, intangible and long-lived assets are based on estimates of fair value of those assets.
The Company recorded impairment charges of $2,394, included in depreciation and amortization, relating to certain other long-lived assets deemed impaired within its theater operations and Rainbow segment in 2004.
In 2005, the Company recorded impairment charges of $7,697, included in depreciation and amortization, primarily for certain long-lived assets and intangibles within its Rainbow segment and theater operations.
During 2006, the Company recorded impairment charges of $2,104, included in depreciation and amortization, primarily for certain long-lived assets and intangibles within its theater operations and PVI Virtual Media business.
As part of its periodic review of expected programming usefulness, the Company recorded an impairment loss of $1,640, $663 and $297 in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Such amounts represent the write-off of the carrying value of certain film and programming contracts of the Companys Rainbow segment and are included in technical and operating expense.
II-27 In June 2006, the operations of the Fox Sports Net Chicago programming business were shut down. In connection with the shut down, the Company recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $5,121 which was classified in discontinued operations.
NOTE 6.
DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS AND ASSETS AND LIABILITIES HELD FOR SALE The operating results of Fox Sports Net Ohio and Fox Sports Net Florida (in connection with the Regional Programming Partners restructuring in April 2005), Fox Sports Net Chicago and the Rainbow DBS satellite distribution business (in connection with the Board of Directors authorization to shut down the business), net of taxes, have been classified in the consolidated statements of operations as discontinued operations for all periods presented.
Operating results of discontinued operations for the years ended December31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 are summarized below: YearEndedDecember31,2006 _ FoxSportsNet Chicago(a) RainbowDBS Satellite Distribution Business(b) Other Total Revenues, net $ 79,204 $  $  $ 79,204 Income (loss)   before income taxes $ 72,985 $ (56,741 ) $ (62 ) $ 16,182 Income tax   benefit (expense) (32,030 ) 23,269 25 (8,736 ) Net income (loss) $ 40,955 $ (33,472 ) $ (37 ) $ 7,446 (a) Revenues, net includes $77,996 representing the collection in June 2006 of affiliate revenue from a cable affiliate, including $71,396 relating to periods prior to 2006, that had not been previously recognized due to a contractual dispute. The underlying contract was terminated in June 2006 and no further payments will be received under this contract.
(b) Income (loss) before income taxes includes the recognition of the Make Whole Payment obligation due to Loral Space and Communications Holding Corporation (see discussion below).
YearEndedDecember31,2005 FoxSportsNet Chicago FoxSportsNet OhioandFox SportsNet Florida RainbowDBS Satellite Distribution Business Other Total Revenues, net $ 3,433 $ 40,018 $ 8,776 $  $ 52,227 Income (loss) before income taxes $ 2,743 $ 466,460 $ (102,983 ) $ 4,405 $ 370,625 Income tax benefit (expense) (1,123 ) (192,998 ) 42,151 (1,802 ) (153,772 ) Net income (loss) including gain on   restructuring of Regional Programming Partners of $266,810, and other gain of   $2,618, net of taxes $ 1,620 $ 273,462 $ (60,832 ) $ 2,603 $ 216,853 II-28 For the year ended December31, 2005, the Company recorded a gain, net of taxes, of $2,521, primarily representing the transfer of the Companys ownership interest in a subsidiary of PVI to PVIs minority partner for the minority partners remaining ownership interest in PVI. In addition, the Company recorded a gain, net of taxes, of $97 for the year ended December31, 2005 that related primarily to a reduction of health and welfare expenses in connection with the transfer of the retail electronics business.
YearEndedDecember31,2004 FoxSportsNet Chicago FoxSportsNet OhioandFox SportsNet Florida RainbowDBS Satellite Distribution Business Other Total Revenues, net $ 117,500 $ 168,085 $ 14,742 $  $ 300,327 Income (loss) before income taxes $ 23,136 $ 39,054 $ (375,345 ) $ (6,954 ) $ (320,109 ) Income tax benefit (expense) (9,555 ) (16,130 ) 155,018 5,300 134,633 Net income (loss) $ 13,581 $ 22,924 $ (220,327 ) $ (1,654 ) $ (185,476 ) For the year ended December31, 2004, the Company recorded losses, net of taxes, of $1,092, representing the finalization of film asset adjustments that relate to the sale of the Bravo programming business in 2002. In addition, the Company recorded losses, net of taxes, of $562 for the year ended December31, 2004 that related primarily to estimated legal and payroll tax settlements in connection with the transfer of the retail electronics business.
Rainbow DBS In April 2005, the operations of the Rainbow DBS satellite distribution business were shut down. In connection with the shut down, certain assets of the business, including the Rainbow1 direct broadcast satellite and certain other related assets were sold to a subsidiary of EchoStar for $200,000 in cash. This transaction closed in November 2005. In addition, Rainbow DBS had FCC licenses to construct, launch and operate five fixed service Ka-band satellites and had entered into a contract in November 2004 for the construction by Lockheed Martin of these five Ka-band satellites at a cost of $740,000. Rainbow DBS had the right to terminate the contract at any time, subject to certain maximum termination liabilities. Rainbow DBS exercised this right on November21, 2005, and the amount paid to Lockheed Martin in excess of the termination liability was repaid to the Company in March 2006.
In September 2005, Loral filed an action against Cablevision and Rainbow DBS for breach of contract based on a letter agreement dated March23, 2001 (the Letter Agreement) between Loral and Rainbow DBS. Loral alleges that the sale of the Rainbow-1 satellite and related assets to EchoStar constituted a sale of substantially all of the assets of Rainbow DBS triggering a Make Whole Payment under the Letter Agreement of $33,000 plus interest. A trial in this matter took place in January 2007 in New York Supreme Court for New York County. On January24, 2007, the jury returned a verdict finding that the EchoStar sale had triggered a Make Whole Payment under the Letter Agreement, requiring a payment to Loral of $50,898, including interest, which has been accrued for as of December31, 2006 and reflected as an expense in discontinued operations. Cablevision and Rainbow DBS have filed a motion for judgment as a matter of law, or in the alternative for a new trial, which is pending.
II-29 Certain assets of the Rainbow DBS satellite distribution business, previously included in the Rainbow DBS segment, amounting to $7,557, had been classified as assets held for sale in the consolidated balance sheet of the Company at December31, 2005. These assets related to the direct broadcast satellite television business of Rainbow DBS and consisted of equipment and other assets. In the first quarter of 2006, the Company recorded an impairment loss of $7,179 which has been classified in discontinued operations. In the second quarter of 2006, the assets were sold.
Fox Sports Net Chicago In June 2006, the operations of the Fox Sports Net Chicago programming business were shut down. In connection with the shut down, the Company recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $5,121 which was classified in discontinued operations.
NOTE 7. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT Costs incurred in the construction of the Companys cable television system, including line extensions to, and upgrade of, the Companys hybrid fiber-coaxial infrastructure and headend facilities are capitalized. These costs consist of materials, subcontractor labor, direct consulting fees, and internal labor and related costs associated with the construction activities. The internal costs that are capitalized consist of salaries and benefits of Company employees and the portion of facility costs, including rent, taxes, insurance and utilities, that supports the construction activities. These costs are depreciated over the estimated life of the plant (12-25 years), and headend facilities (4-15 years). Costs of operating the plant and the technical facilities, including repairs and maintenance and call completion fees, are expensed as incurred.
Costs incurred to connect businesses or residences that have not been previously connected to the infrastructure or digital platform are also capitalized. These costs include materials, subcontractor labor, internal labor to connect, provision and provide on-site and remote technical assistance and other related costs associated with the connection activities. In addition, on-site and remote technical assistance during the provisioning process for new digital product offerings are capitalized. The departmental activities supporting the connection process are tracked through specific metrics, and the portion of departmental costs that is capitalized is determined through a time weighted activity allocation of costs incurred based on time studies used to estimate the average time spent on each activity. New connections are amortized over 5 years or 12 years for residence wiring and feeder cable to the home, respectively. The portion of departmental costs related to reconnection, programming service up- and down- grade, repair and maintenance, and disconnection activities are expensed as incurred.
II-30 Property, plant and equipment (including equipment under capital leases) consist of the following assets, which are depreciated or amortized on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives shown below: December31, Estimated 2006 2005 UsefulLives Customer   equipment $ 1,565,089 $ 1,359,758 3 to 5 years Headends and   related equipment 610,563 578,880 4 to 15 years Central office   equipment 456,670 397,450 5 to 10 years Infrastructure 4,599,159 4,391,527 3 to 25 years Program, service   and data processing equipment 1,254,713 1,201,999 2 to 13 years Microwave   equipment 37,484 35,084 5 to 8 years Construction in   progress (including materials and supplies) 68,136 63,157  Furniture and   fixtures 171,311 163,035 3 to 10 years Transportation   equipment 228,414 217,604 3 to 15 years Buildings and   building improvements 368,921 358,140 2 to 40 years Leasehold   improvements 531,471 516,452 Term of lease Land 79,989 79,985  9,971,920 9,363,071 Less accumulated   depreciation and amortization 6,257,078 5,494,994 $ 3,714,842 $ 3,868,077 Depreciation expense on property, plant and equipment (including capital leases) for the years ended December31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 amounted to $1,034,628, $981,057 and $967,306 (including impairments of $1,205, $2,734 and $14,437 in 2006, 2005 and 2004), respectively.
At December31, 2006 and 2005, the gross amount of equipment and related accumulated amortization recorded under capital leases were as follows: December31, 2006 2005 Equipment $ 122,400 $ 113,766 Less accumulated   amortization 75,817 67,443 $ 46,583 $ 46,323 II-31 NOTE 8. INTANGIBLE ASSETS The following table summarizes information relating to the Companys acquired intangible assets at December31, 2006 and 2005: December31, Estimated 2006 2005 UsefulLives Gross carrying   amount of amortizable intangible assets Affiliation relationships and affiliation agreements $ 783,774 $ 782,367 4 to 24 years Broadcast rights and other agreements 86,748 86,748 10 to 11 years Season ticket holder relationships 75,005 75,005 10 to 15 years Suite holder contracts and relationships 21,167 21,167 3 to 11 years Advertiser relationships 104,071 104,071 7 to 10 years Other intangibles 40,819 87,400 1 to 20 years 1,111,584 1,156,758 Accumulated   amortization Affiliation relationships and affiliation agreements 366,888 305,677 Broadcast rights and other agreements 50,746 44,075 Season ticket holder relationships 10,027 4,576 Suite holder contracts and relationships 5,815 2,491 Advertiser relationships 42,814 31,315 Other intangibles 19,139 29,810 495,429 417,944 Indefinite-lived   intangible assets Franchises 731,848 731,848 Sports franchises 96,215 96,215 FCC licenses and other intangibles 11,936 19,076 Trademarks 53,880 53,880 Excess costs over the fair value of net assets   acquired 1,032,117 993,426 1,925,996 1,894,445 Total intangible assets, net $ 2,542,151 $ 2,633,259 Aggregate   amortization expense Years ended December31, 2006 and 2005   (excluding impairment charges of $899 and $4,963, respectively) $ 93,286 $ 97,623 Estimated   amortization expense Year ending   December 31, 2007 $ 91,553 Year ending   December 31, 2008 89,112 Year ending   December 31, 2009 82,699 Year ending   December 31, 2010 79,637 Year ending December   31, 2011 78,838 II-32 The changes in the carrying amount of excess costs over the fair value of net assets acquired for the years ended December31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 are as follows: Tele- communications MSG Rainbow Other TotalCompany Balance as of   December31, 2004 $ 206,971 $ 1,152,131 $ 70,722 $ 13,558 $ 1,443,382 Adjustments   recorded in connection with the Regional Programming Partners restructuring  (460,853 ) 14,026  (446,827 ) Reclassification   as a result of the Regional Programming Partners restructuring  32,755 (32,755 )   Impairment loss   (4,963 )  (4,963 ) Other   935 899 1,834 Balance as of   December31, 2005 206,971 724,033 47,965 14,457 993,426 Cumulative   effect of adjustments resulting from the adoption of SAB No.108 (Note   2)  14,228 30,483  44,711 Adjusted balance   at January 1, 2006 206,971 738,261 78,448 14,457 1,038,137 Impairment loss   - continuing operations    (899 ) (899 ) Impairment loss   - discontinued operations (Note6)   (5,121 )  (5,121 ) Balance as of   December31, 2006 $ 206,971 $ 738,261 $ 73,327 $ 13,558 $ 1,032,117 See Note 3 for a discussion of changes to acquired intangible assets primarily as a result of the Regional Programming Partners restructuring in 2005.
II-33 NOTE 9. DEBT Bank Debt The Companys outstanding bank debt at December 31, 2006 and 2005 is as follows: December31, 2006 2005 Restricted Group: Restricted Group credit   facility (terminated in 2006) $  $ 1,256,000 Term A-1 credit facility 1,000,000  Term B credit facility 3,482,500  4,482,500 1,256,000 Rainbow National Services: Credit facility   (terminated in 2006)  595,500 Term A credit facility 500,000  Revolving credit   facility 10,000  $ 4,992,500 $ 1,851,500 Restricted Group On February24, 2006, the Restricted Group (comprised primarily of the CSC Holdings cable television subsidiaries and its commercial data and voice services subsidiary) entered into a $2,400,000 credit facility with a group of banks consisting of three components: a $1,000,000 revolver that was undrawn at December 31, 2006, a $1,000,000 term A-1 loan facility and a $400,000 term A-2 loan facility that has since been refinanced and repaid in full, as described below. Approximately $1,300,000 of the $1,400,000 proceeds received from the term loans under the new credit facility was used to repay the outstanding borrowings and accrued interest under the prior Restricted Group credit facility that was scheduled to mature in June 2006, and fees and expenses. On March29, 2006, the Restricted Group entered into a new $3,500,000 termB loan facility, of which approximately $400,000 of the proceeds was used to prepay the outstanding borrowings of the termA-2 loan facility, including accrued interest, and fees and expenses. The balance of the outstanding termB loan facility borrowings was invested in short-term AAA rated funds until approval of the special dividend by the Companys Board of Directors. On April24, 2006 the approved special dividend was paid (see Note22).
The three components of the new Restricted Group credit facility, the $1,000,000 revolver, the $1,000,000 termA-1 loan facility and the $3,500,000 termB loan facility, are direct obligations of CSC Holdings, guaranteed by most Restricted Group subsidiaries and secured by the pledge of the stock of most Restricted Group subsidiaries. As of December31, 2006, $51,994 of the $1,000,000 revolving credit facility was restricted for certain letters of credit issued on behalf of CSC Holdings. The revolving credit facility and the term A-1 loan facility mature in six years in February2012 and the termB loan facility matures in seven years in March2013. The revolver has no required interim repayments, the $1,000,000 termA-1 loan facility requires quarterly repayments aggregating 0% in year one, 5% in each of years two and three, 25% in each of years four and five, and 40% in the final year and the $3,500,000 termB loan facility is subject to quarterly repayments totaling 1% ($8,750 per quarter) in each of years one through six and 94% ($822,500 per quarter) in the final year. The interest rate on the termA-1 loan facility varies, depending on the Restricted Groups cash flow ratio (as defined), from .75% to 1.75% over the Eurodollar Rate for Eurodollar-based borrowings and from zero to .75% over the Base Rate for Base Rate Borrowings (as defined). The interest rate on the borrowings under the termB loan facility is the II-34 Eurodollar Rate (as defined) plus 1.75% or prime rate plus .75%, at the Companys election. The weighted average interest rates as of December31, 2006 on borrowings under the termA-1 loan facility and termB loan facility was 6.62% and 7.12%, respectively.
The principal financial covenants, which are not identical for the revolving credit facility and the term A- 1 loan facility, on the one hand, and the termB loan facility, on the other, include (i)under the revolving credit facility and the termA-1 loan facility, maximum total leverage of 7.50 to 1 with subsequent stepdowns over the life of the revolving credit facility and the termA-1 loan facility until reaching 4.50 to 1 for periods beginning on and after January1, 2010, (ii)under the revolving credit facility and the termA-1 loan facility, maximum senior secured leverage of 4.00 times cash flow through December31, 2006 with annual stepdowns thereafter over the life of the revolving credit facility and the termA-1 loan facility until reaching 3.00 to 1 for periods beginning on and after January1, 2010, (iii)under the revolving credit facility and the termA-1 loan facility, minimum ratios for cash flow to interest expense of 1.75 to 1 initially, increasing to 2.00 to 1 on and after July1, 2007, and (iv)under the revolving credit facility and the termA-1 loan facility, a minimum ratio of cash flow less cash taxes to total debt expense (defined to include interest expense, certain payments of principal and dividends paid by CSC Holdings to Cablevision to permit Cablevision to pay interest and certain principal payments on its debt) of 1.50 to 1. These covenants and restrictions on the permitted use of borrowed funds in the revolving credit facility may limit the Companys ability to utilize all of the undrawn revolver funds. Additional covenants include limitations on liens and the issuance of additional debt.
Under the term B loan facility, the Company is limited in its ability to incur additional indebtedness based on a maximum ratio of total indebtedness to cash flow (as defined in the termB loan facility) of 7.50 to 1 with subsequent stepdowns over the life of the termB loan facility until reaching 5.00 to 1 for periods beginning on and after January1, 2010 and a maximum senior secured leverage ratio of 4.50 times cash flow (as defined in the term B loan facility).
Under the revolving credit facility and the termA-1 loan facility, there are generally no restrictions on investments that the Restricted Group may make, provided it is not in default. The Restricted Group can make distributions or other restricted payments so long as CSC Holdings is not in default, but there is a limitation (initially $200,000, subject to increase to reflect capital contributions or issuance of equity interests) on restricted payments during any period when the cash flow leverage ratio is greater than 6.0 to 1. The $200,000 limitation does not apply to restricted payments by CSC Holdings to Cablevision to be used by Cablevision to make scheduled payments of principal or interest on its indebtedness. Under the termB loan facility, there also are generally no restrictions on investments that the Restricted Group may make provided it is not in default; however, CSC Holdings must also remain in compliance with the maximum ratio of total indebtedness to cash flow and the maximum senior secured leverage ratio. The Restricted Groups ability to make restricted payments is also limited by provisions in the termB loan facility and the indentures covering the Companys notes and debentures.
In connection with the repayment of the termA-2 loan facility and the prior Restricted Group credit facility, the Company wrote off $4,587 of unamortized deferred financing costs and in connection with the new Restricted Group credit facility, related costs of $42,004 were recorded as deferred financing costs.
II-35 Rainbow National Services On July5, 2006, Rainbow National Services LLC (RNS), an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, entered into a replacement bank facility (the New RNS Credit Facility) providing for an $800,000 senior secured facility which consists of a $500,000 termA loan facility and a $300,000 revolving credit facility which was used primarily to refinance its then existing credit facility. The termA loan facility matures June30, 2013 and the revolving credit facility matures June30, 2012. The New RNS Credit Facility allows RNS to utilize up to $50,000 of the revolving credit facility for letters of credit and up to $5,000 for a swing loan. Further, the New RNS Credit Facility provides for an incremental facility of up to $925,000, provided that it be for a minimum amount of $100,000. If an incremental facility is established, RNS and the lenders will enter into a supplement to the New RNS Credit Facility with terms and conditions that are no more restrictive than those of the New RNS Credit Facility. There are no commitments from the lenders to fund an incremental facility.
On July5, 2006, RNS borrowed the entire $500,000 termA loan facility and $10,000 under the revolving credit facility. RNS used the $510,000 borrowed under the New RNS Credit Facility and $88,048 of additional available cash to repay all of its outstanding borrowings, accrued interest and fees due under its August 2004 $950,000 senior secured credit facility of which $592,500 was outstanding under a term loan at July5, 2006 (scheduled to mature March31, 2012) and to pay certain fees and expenses incurred in connection with the New RNS Credit Facility. RNS may use future borrowings under the credit agreement to make investments, distributions, and other payments permitted under the New RNS Credit Facility and for general corporate purposes. The borrowings under the New RNS Credit Facility may be repaid without penalty at any time. At December 31, 2006, $500,000 was outstanding under the termA loan and $10,000 was outstanding under the revolving credit facility. RNS had $290,000 in undrawn revolver commitments at December31, 2006.
Borrowings under the New RNS Credit Facility are direct obligations of RNS which are guaranteed jointly and severally by substantially all of its subsidiaries and by Rainbow Programming Holdings LLC, the direct parent of RNS, and are secured by the pledge of the stock of RNS and substantially all of its subsidiaries and all of the other assets of RNS and substantially all of its subsidiaries (subject to certain limited exceptions). Borrowings under the New RNS Credit Facility bear interest based on either the Base Rate (the greater of the Federal Funds Rate plus 0.5% and the prime rate (as defined in the New RNS Credit Facility)), or the Eurodollar Rate (as defined in the New RNS Credit Facility). The interest rate under the New RNS Credit Facility varies, depending on RNS cash flow ratio (as defined in the New RNS Credit Facility) from 1.0% to 1.5% over the Eurodollar Rate for Eurodollar-based borrowings and from zero to 0.5% over the Base Rate for Base Rate borrowings. On December 31, 2006, the interest rate on the term A loanfacility and the revolving credit facility was 6.62% and 6.60%, respectively. The termA loan is to be repaid in quarterly installments of 1.25% of the original outstanding balance ($6,250) from March31, 2008 until December31, 2010, 2.5% of the original outstanding balance ($12,500) from March31, 2011 until December31, 2012, and 32.5% of the original outstanding balance ($162,500) on March 31, 2013 and June30, 2013, the termA loan maturity date. Any amounts outstanding under the revolving credit facility are due at maturity on June30, 2012.
The financial covenants consist of (i)a minimum ratio of operating cash flow to total interest expense for each quarter (all as defined in the New RNS Credit Facility) of 1.75 to 1, (ii)a maximum cash flow ratio of total indebtedness to annualized operating cash flow (as defined in the New RNS Credit Facility) of 6.75 to 1 through June30, 2008, decreasing thereafter to 6.25 to 1, and (iii)a maximum senior secured leverage ratio of senior secured debt to annualized operating cash flow (as defined in the New RNS Credit II-36 Facility) of 5.50 to 1. Additional covenants include restrictions on indebtedness, guarantees, liens, investments, dividends and distributions and transactions with affiliates.
RNS is obligated to pay fees of 0.375% per annum on any undrawn revolver commitment.
In connection with the New RNS Credit Facility, RNS incurred deferred financing costs of $5,536, which are being amortized to interest expense over the term of the New RNS Credit Facility. The Company recorded $6,084 as a write-off of deferred financing costs associated with the repayment of the August 2004 credit facility in 2006.
Rainbow Media Holdings In December 2003, Rainbow Media Holdings, a wholly-owned subsidiary of CSC Holdings entered into an $823,000 credit facility consisting of a $200,000 revolving credit facility and a $623,000 term loan, maturing on March31, 2008 and March31, 2009, respectively. At December31, 2003, the weighted average rate of interest was 3.57%.
Loans under the Rainbow Media Holdings credit facility bore interest at the Eurodollar rate plus a margin based upon Rainbow Media Holdings leverage ratio.
In August 2004, RNS distributed approximately $704,900 to Rainbow Media Holdings which it used to repay all outstanding amounts under its credit facility and collateralized outstanding letters of credit. Such proceeds were obtained through the issuance of bank debt and the issuance of senior and senior subordinated notes by RNS. The Company wrote off $12,694 of unamortized deferred financing costs in connection with the termination of the credit facility in 2004.
Madison Square Garden Madison Square Garden, L.P. (MSG), a wholly-owned indirect subsidiary of Rainbow Media Holdings, had a $500,000 revolving credit facility with a group of banks which was to mature on December31, 2004. MSG had pledged substantially all of its assets as collateral under the credit facility. Loans under the MSG credit facility bore interest at either prime rate or a Eurodollar rate plus a margin based upon MSGs consolidated leverage ratio. At December31, 2003, loans outstanding amounted to $110,000, and bore interest at a weighted average rate of 1.93%. In March 2004, borrowings under the credit facility were repaid in full and the credit facility was terminated with proceeds from a $146,000 equity contribution from its direct parent, Regional Programming Partners. The Company wrote off $1,187 of unamortized deferred financing costs in connection with the termination of the MSG credit facility in 2004.
II-37 Senior Notes and Debentures The following table summarizes the Companys senior notes and debentures: CarryingAmountat Date Maturity Face December31, Issuer Issued Date Rate Amount 2006 2005 CSC Holdings (a) December 1997 December 2007 7.875 % $ 500,000 $ 499,952 $ 499,896 CSC Holdings (b) (d) April 2004 April 2012 6.75 % 500,000 500,000 500,000 CSC Holdings (a) July 1999 July 2009 8.125 % 500,000 499,423 499,191 CSC Holdings (a) July 1998 July 2008 7.25 % 500,000 500,000 500,000 CSC Holdings (a) July 1998 July 2018 7.625 % 500,000 499,714 499,689 CSC Holdings (a) February 1998 February 2018 7.875 % 300,000 298,088 297,918 CSC Holdings (a) August 1997 August 2009 8.125 % 400,000 399,668 399,544 CSC Holdings (a) March 2001 April 2011 7.625 % 1,000,000 998,635 998,315 RNS (c) August 2004 September 2012 8.75 % 300,000 298,476 298,207 $ 4,500,000 $ 4,493,956 $ 4,492,760 (a) These notes are not redeemable by the Company prior to maturity.
(b) The Company may redeem some or all of the notes at any time at a make-whole redemption price calculated by reference to market interest rates for comparable maturity treasury notes plus a spread.
(c) The senior notes are redeemable, in whole or in part, at a redemption price equal to 104.375% of face value at any time on or after September 1, 2008, 102.188% of face value on or after September 1, 2009, and 100% of face value on or after September 1, 2010. In addition, the Company may redeem up to 35% of the senior notes before September 1, 2007 at a redemption price of 108.75% of the principal amounts, with the net cash proceeds from specified equity offerings (as defined under the terms of the indentures) provided that at least 65% of the aggregate principal amount of the notes remains outstanding immediately subsequent to the redemption.
(d) These notes have not been exchanged as required by the purchase agreement under which the notes were sold and consequently, the interest rate has increased from 6.75% to 7.25% until the exchange is accomplished. Upon exchange, the interest rate would revert to 6.75%.
The indentures under which the senior notes and debentures were issued contain various covenants, which are generally less restrictive than those contained in the credit agreement of the issuer.
II-38 Senior Subordinated Notes and Debentures The following table summarizes the Companys senior subordinated notes and debentures: CarryingAmountat Principal December31, Redemption(b) Amount 2006 2005 Date Price RNS September 1, 2009 105.188 % 10-3/8% Senior   Subordinated September 1, 2010 103.458 % Notes   due 2014 September 1, 2011 101.729 % issued   August 2004 (a) $ 500,000 $ 497,011 $ 496,621 September 1, 2012 100 % CSC Holdings 10-1/2% Senior   Subordinated Debentures   due 2016, issued   May 1996 (d) 250,000  250,000 CSC Holdings 9-7/8% Senior   Subordinated Debentures   due 2013, issued   February 1993(c) 200,000   CSC Holdings 9-7/8% Senior   Subordinated Debentures   due 2023, issued   April 1993(c) 150,000   $ 1,100,000 $ 497,011 $ 746,621 (a) These notes were discounted $3,915 upon original issuance. The Company may redeem up to 35% of the senior subordinated notes before September 1, 2007 at a redemption price of 110.375% of the principal amounts, with the net cash proceeds from specified equity offerings (as defined under the terms of the indenture) provided that at least 65% of the aggregate principal amount of the notes remains outstanding immediately subsequent to the redemption.
(b) The notes/debentures are redeemable, at the Companys option, in whole or in part, on the redemption dates listed at the respective percentage of the principal amount and one year after the last date above at 100% of the aggregate principal amount, in each case together with accrued interest to the redemption date.
(c) In May 2004, the Company redeemed these senior subordinated debentures. In connection with these redemptions, the Company recognized a loss of $14,325 representing primarily the redemption premiums paid.
(d) In June 2006, the Company redeemed these senior subordinated debentures at a redemption price of 105.25%. In connection with the redemption, the Company recognized a loss on extinguishment of debt of $13,125, representing the redemption premiums paid, and wrote off the remaining deferred financing costs of $3,412.
The indentures under which the senior subordinated notes and debentures were issued contain various covenants, which are generally less restrictive than those contained in the credit agreement of the issuer.
Debt Covenant Compliance CSC Holdings Credit Agreement: On August29, 2006, the Company advised the agent bank and the lenders under the new Restricted Group credit facility that due to the expected restatement of its financial statements resulting from the stock option review discussed in Note18, it was unable to comply with its covenant to deliver financial information, due on that date, with respect to the periods ended June30, 2005 and 2006. Under the new Restricted Group credit facility, the covenant noncompliance would become an event of default if the noncompliance II-39 remained unremedied for 30days after notice from the agent bank or any lender (other than a lender under the term B facility), or for 60days after notice from the agent bank or termB lenders holding at least 25% of the termB facility.
On August29, 2006, the lenders under the new Restricted Group credit facility, other than the termB lenders, agreed to waive until September22, 2006 any default resulting from the covenant noncompliance under the new Restricted Group credit facility due to the expected restatement so notice of default could not be given by such a lender until September25, 2006 at the earliest and the Restricted Group would have 30days from the date of any such notice to cure the default. The Company delivered all required information under the new Restricted Group credit facility on September21, 2006 and the information delivery covenant noncompliance was cured by that delivery.
The Restricted Group did not obtain a waiver of the default resulting from the covenant noncompliance from the lenders holding termB loans under the new Restricted Group credit facility and, on September7, 2006, the bank serving as administrative agent under the new Restricted Group credit facility gave a notice of default to the Company with respect to such termB covenant noncompliance. As a result, the Restricted Group had 60 days (until November6, 2006) to cure its noncompliance with the financial information covenant. The Company delivered all required information under the new Restricted Group credit facility on September21, 2006 and the information delivery covenant noncompliance was cured by that delivery.
CSC Holdings Indentures: As a result of not filing their Quarterly Report on Form10-Q for the quarter ended June30, 2006 by September8, 2006, the Company was not in compliance with the information delivery and filing requirements under the indentures relating to its notes and debentures. Such noncompliance would become an event of default as to any series of notes or debentures if the Company, as the case may be, received notice of such default from the trustee or the holders of at least 25% of the securities of that series and failed to cure the covenant noncompliance within 60days after receipt of the notice. On September 12, 2006, the Company received a letter from an investment manager stating that it was acting for funds beneficially owning more than 25% of the outstanding securities of a series under one of the Companys indentures. The letter stated that it served as a notice of default under the applicable indenture and demanded that the covenant noncompliance be remedied. Assuming the letter constituted a valid notice of default from holders of at least 25% of the securities of the relevant series, Cablevision had 60 days (until November11, 2006) to cure its noncompliance with the information delivery and filing covenant. The Company delivered all required information under the indentures on September21, 2006, at which time the Company was in compliance with all of the covenants of its debt instruments.
II-40 Summary of Five Year Debt Maturities Total amounts payable by the Company and its subsidiaries under its various debt obligations outstanding as of December31, 2006, including collateralized indebtedness (see Note10) and capital leases (including interest), during the five years subsequent to December31, 2006, are as follows: YearsEndingDecember31, 2007 $ 724,834 2008 871,525 2009 1,881,991 2010 314,536 2011 1,489,536 NOTE 10. COLLATERALIZED INDEBTEDNESS AND DERIVATIVES To manage interest rate risk, the Company has from time to time entered into interest rate swap contracts to adjust the proportion of total debt that is subject to variable and fixed interest rates. Such contracts fix the borrowing rates on floating rate debt to provide an economic hedge against the risk of rising rates and/or convert fixed rate borrowings to variable rates to provide an economic hedge against the risk of higher borrowing costs in a declining interest rate environment. At December31, 2006 and 2005, the company was a party to interest rate swap agreements to pay floating rates of interest with a total notional value of $450,000 and a fair value of $6,568, and $10,541, a net liability position, respectively. These agreements have not been designated as hedges for accounting purposes.
In addition, the Company has entered into prepaid interest rate swap agreements in connection with its monetization of certain of its stock holdings, discussed below. These contracts require the Company to pay a floating rate of interest in exchange for fixed rate interest payments, the net present value of which was paid to the Company at the contracts inception. As of December31, 2006 and 2005, the total notional value of such contracts was $105,061 and $613,960, respectively and the fair values of such contracts were $10,340 and $26,881 a net liability position, respectively. These agreements have not been designated as hedges for accounting purposes.
In April 2006, the Company entered into several interest rate swap contracts in the notional amount of $3,700,000 to effectively fix borrowing rates on floating rate debt. As a result of these transactions, the interest rate paid on approximately 80% of the Companys debt is fixed.
The table below summarizes certain terms of these interest rate swap contracts as of December31, 2006: MaturityDate NotionalAmount WeightedAverageFixed RatePaidbytheCompany WeightedAverage EffectiveFloatingRate ReceivedbytheCompany asofDecember31,2006 (in thousands) April 2008 $ 500,000 5.24 % 5.37 % April 2009 $ 600,000 5.25 % 5.38 % June 2010 $ 2,600,000 5.34 % 5.36 % As of December 31, 2006, the interest rate swap contracts noted above had a fair value and carrying value of $31,398, a net liability position, as reflected under derivative contracts in our consolidated balance sheet.
II-41 The changes in the fair value of the Companys swap agreements and the net realized gains (losses) as a result of net cash interest income (expense) for the years ended December31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 aggregating $(39,360), $(16,497) and $(656), respectively, are reflected in gain (loss) on derivative contracts in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations.
The Company has also entered into various transactions to provide an economic hedge against equity price risk on certain of its stock holdings. The Company had monetized all of its stock holdings in Charter Communications, Inc., Adelphia Communications Corporation, AT&T, AT&T Wireless, Comcast Corporation, General Electric Company and Leapfrog Enterprises, Inc. through the execution of prepaid forward contracts, collateralized by an equivalent amount of the respective underlying stock. The contracts set a floor and cap on the Companys participation in the changes in the underlying stock prices and at maturity are expected to offset declines in the fair values of the underlying stock below the hedge price per share, while allowing the Company to retain upside appreciation from the hedge price per share to the cap price. At maturity, the contracts provide for the option to deliver cash or shares of AT&T, Comcast, Charter Communications, Adelphia Communications, General Electric or Leapfrog stock (as the case may be) with a value determined by reference to the applicable stock price at maturity.
The Company received cash proceeds upon execution of the prepaid forward contracts discussed above which has been reflected as collateralized indebtedness in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. In addition, the Company separately accounts for the equity derivative component of the prepaid forward contracts. These equity derivatives have not been designated as hedges for accounting purposes. Therefore, the fair values of the equity derivatives of $(82,009) and $296,017, at December31, 2006 and 2005, respectively, have been reflected in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets as an asset (liability) and the net increases (decreases) in the fair value of the equity derivative component of the prepaid forward contracts of $(214,352), $135,677 and $(132,940), as of December31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively, are included in gain (loss) on derivative contracts in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations.
For the years ended December31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, the Company recorded a gain (loss) on investments of $284,096, $(135,082) and $135,649 respectively, representing the net increases or decreases in the fair values of all investment securities pledged as collateral for the period.
2006 Settlements of Collateralized Indebtedness The following table summarizes the settlement of the Companys collateralized indebtedness for the year ended December31, 2006. The Companys collateralized indebtedness obligations relating to shares of Charter Communications, Inc. and AT&T Inc. common stock were settled by delivering the underlying securities and proceeds from the related equity derivative contracts. The Companys collateralized indebtedness obligations relating to Comcast Corporation and General Electric Company shares were settled by delivering the cash equal to the collateralized loan value, net of the value of the related equity derivative contracts. The cash was obtained from the proceeds of new monetization contracts covering an equivalent number of Comcast and General Electric shares, proceeds from a prepaid interest rate swap executed in conjunction with the equity derivative contract related to the Comcast shares and, in certain instances, cash from CSC Holdings. The terms of the new contracts allow the Company to retain upside participation in both Comcast and General Electric shares up to each respective contracts upside appreciation limit with downside exposure limited below the respective hedge price.
II-42 Charter AT&T Comcast GeneralElectric Total Number of shares 5,586,687 3,449,785 7,159,206 12,742,033 Collateralized indebtedness settled $ (125,907 ) $ (165,036 ) $ (266,224 ) $ (314,028 ) $ (871,195 ) Prepaid forward contracts 119,177 63,974 31,385 (50,864 ) 163,672 Fair value of underlying securities delivered 6,730 101,062   107,792 Net cash payment $  $  $ (234,839 ) $ (364,892 ) $ (599,731 ) Proceeds from new monetization contracts $  $  $ 212,774 $ 382,261 $ 595,035 Proceeds from prepaid interest rate swap contract   6,496  6,496   219,270 382,261 601,531 Net cash receipt (payment) $  $  $ (15,569 ) $ 17,369 $ 1,800 2005 Settlements of Collateralized Indebtedness The following table summarizes the settlement of the Companys collateralized indebtedness for the year ended December31, 2005. The Companys collateralized indebtedness obligations relating to AT&T Wireless, Charter, Adelphia and AT&T shares were settled by delivering the underlying securities and proceeds from the related equity derivative contracts. The Companys collateralized indebtedness obligations relating to Comcast shares were settled by delivering the cash equal to the market value of the Comcast shares and proceeds from the related equity derivative contracts. The cash was obtained from the proceeds of new monetization contracts covering an equivalent number of Comcast shares, and, in certain cases, proceeds from a prepaid interest rate swap executed in conjunction with the equity derivative contract. The terms of the new contracts are similar in all material respects to the contracts that had matured and allow the Company to retain upside participation in the Comcast shares up to the contracts upside appreciation limit with downside exposure limited below the hedge price.
II-43 Adelphia AT&T Wireless Charter AT&T Comcast Total Number of shares 1,010,000 7,243,166 1,862,229 4,183,455 7,159,206 Collateralized indebtedness $ (39,935 ) $ (116,544 ) $ (42,676 ) $ (165,036 ) $ (266,227 ) $ (630,418 ) Prepaid forward contracts 39,834 8,897 39,678 79,502 43,604 211,515 Underlying securities 101  2,998 85,534  88,633 Restricted cash  108,647    108,647 Net cash receipt (payment) $  $ 1,000 $  $  $ (222,623 ) $ (221,623 ) Proceeds from new monetization contracts $  $  $  $  $ 209,973 $ 209,973 Proceeds from prepaid interest rate swap contract     6,462 6,462     216,435 216,435 Net cash receipt (payment) $  $ 1,000 $  $  $ (6,188 ) $ (5,188 ) At December31, 2006, the Company had principal collateralized indebtedness obligations of $102,268 that mature during the next twelve months. The Company intends to settle such obligations by either delivering shares of the applicable stock and proceeds of the equity derivative contracts or delivering cash from the proceeds of new monetization transactions. In the event of an early termination of any of these contracts, the Company would be obligated to repay the fair value of the collateralized indebtedness less the sum of the fair values of the underlying stock and equity collar, calculated at the termination date. As of December31, 2006, this settlement amount totaled $2,221.
In October 2004, the Company received $213,647 in cash in exchange for all 14.2million shares it owned of AT&T Wireless common stock, representing the $15 share price paid in consideration of the merger between AT&T Wireless and Cingular Wireless LLC. The shares and resultant cash exchanged for such shares had previously been pledged in support of the repayment of the collateralized debt. As a result of that exchange, the Companys prepaid forward contracts relating to its shares of AT&T Wireless were terminated. The termination provisions under the prepaid forward contracts required the Company to repay the fair value of the collateralized indebtedness less the sum of the fair value of the underlying stock and equity collars. The Company recognized a loss on the extinguishment of debt of $6,076 representing the difference between the fair value and the carrying value of the collateralized indebtedness. At December31, 2004, the Company had settled certain collateralized indebtedness with a fair value of $124,100 by releasing to the counterparty cash proceeds from the related prepaid forward contract totaling $20,100 and the cash from the merger transaction of $105,000 both of which had been pledged in settlement of the debt. The Company received the net difference of $1,000 in cash upon settlement in February 2005.
In February 2003, Quadrangle Capital Partners LP (Quadrangle), a private investment firm, invested $75,000 in CSC Holdings, in the form of 10% Series A Exchangeable Participating Preferred Stock convertible into Cablevision NY Group ClassA common stock. In connection with the issuance of the Series A Preferred Stock to Quadrangle Capital Partners LP, the Company entered into an agreement with Quadrangle which granted Quadrangle the right to require the Company to purchase the preferred stock II-44 (put option) for cash or through the issuance of registered equity securities of the Company, at the Companys option. The exchange right and the put option were accounted for as a derivative. The change in the fair value of the exchange right and put option of $31,709 for the year ended December31, 2004 has been reflected as a loss on derivative contracts in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations. In October 2003, Quadrangle exercised its put option to require CSC Holdings to purchase all of its Series A Exchangeable Participating Preferred Stock. The parties entered into an agreement that the put price was $150,328. The put price was paid in cash by CSC Holdings in August 2004.
NOTE 11. PREFERRED STOCK In February 1996, the Company issued 6,500,000 depositary shares, representing 65,000 shares of 11-1/8% Series L Redeemable Exchangeable Preferred Stock (the Series L Preferred Stock), which were subsequently exchanged for SeriesM Redeemable Exchangeable Preferred Stock (the Series M Preferred Stock) in August 1996 with terms identical to the Series L Preferred Stock. The depositary shares were exchangeable, in whole but not in part, at the option of the Company, for the Companys 11-1/8% Senior Subordinated Debentures due 2008. The Company was required to redeem the Series M Preferred Stock on April1, 2008 at a redemption price equal to the liquidation preference of $10,000 per share plus accumulated and unpaid dividends. The Series M Preferred Stock was redeemable at various redemption prices beginning at 105.563% at any time on or after April1, 2003, at the option of the Company, with accumulated and unpaid dividends thereon to the date of redemption. Before April1, 2001, dividends could, at the option of the Company, be paid in cash or by issuing fully paid and nonassessable shares of Series M Preferred Stock with an aggregate liquidation preference equal to the amount of such dividends. On and after April1, 2001, dividends were payable in cash. The Company paid cash dividends on the Series M Preferred Stock of $42,882 in 2004.
In September1995, the Company issued 2,500,000 shares of its $.01 par value 11-3/4% Series H Redeemable Exchangeable Preferred Stock (the Series H Preferred Stock) with an aggregate liquidation preference of $100 per share. The Company was required to redeem the Series H Preferred Stock on October1, 2007 at a redemption price per share equal to the liquidation preference of $100 per share, plus accrued and unpaid dividends thereon.
The Series H Preferred Stock was redeemable at various redemption prices beginning at 105.875% at any time on or after October1, 2002, at the option of the Company, with accumulated and unpaid dividends thereon to the date of redemption. Before October1, 2000, dividends could, at the option of the Company, be paid in cash or by issuing fully paid and nonassessable shares of Series H Preferred Stock with an aggregate liquidation preference equal to the amount of such dividends. On and after October1, 2000, dividends were payable in cash. The terms of the Series H Preferred Stock permitted the Company, at its option, to exchange the Series H Preferred Stock for the Companys 11-3/4% Senior Subordinated Debentures due 2007 in an aggregate principal amount equal to the aggregate liquidation preference of the shares of Series H Preferred Stock. The Company paid cash dividends on the Series H Preferred Stock of $17,712 in 2004.
In May 2004, the Company redeemed all of its Series H Preferred Stock and its Series M Preferred Stock. In connection with the redemptions, the Company recognized a loss of $58,170 representing the redemption premiums paid. In addition, the Company wrote off $5,080 of unamortized deferred financing costs in connection with these redemptions.
II-45 NOTE 12. INCOME TAXES The Company and its 80% or more owned subsidiaries were included in the consolidated federal income tax returns of Cablevision for the years presented herein. The income tax provision is determined on a stand-alone basis as if the Company filed separate consolidated income tax returns.
Income tax expense (benefit) attributable to continuing operations consists of the following components: YearsEndedDecember31, 2006 2005 2004 Current expense: Federal $  $  $ 93 State 9,546 9,493 6,669 9,546 9,493 6,762 Deferred   benefit: Federal (38,595 ) (18,651 ) (58,117 ) State (52,337 ) (15,540 ) (114,917 ) (90,932 ) (34,191 ) (173,034 ) Income tax   benefit $ (81,386 ) $ (24,698 ) $ (166,272 ) The income tax benefit attributable to continuing operations for 2005 and 2004 excludes deferred federal and state tax benefits of $1,256 and $3,388, respectively, resulting from the exercise of stock options, which were credited directly to paid-in capital. No income tax benefit has been recognized as an increase to paid in capital with regard to excess tax benefits occurring during the year ended December 31, 2006.
The income tax expense attributable to discontinued operations was classified as deferred income tax expense for all periods presented (see Note 6).
The income tax expense (benefit) attributable to continuing operations differs from the amount derived by applying the statutory federal rate to pretax income principally due to the effect of the following items: YearsEndedDecember31, 2006 2005 2004 Federal tax   benefit at statutory federal rate $ (48,454 ) $ (27,523 ) $ (210,834 ) State income   taxes, net of federal benefit (16,573 ) (4,823 ) (20,334 ) Changes in the   valuation allowance (10,404 ) 6,459 14,036 State rate   change, net of federal benefit 1,706 (6,701 ) (21,615 ) Nondeductible   expense relating to Series A Preferred Stock   11,098 Nondeductible   preferred stock dividends   21,208 Nondeductible   redemption premium on Series H and Series M Preferred Stock   20,360 Reduction of a   tax contingency liability (16,356 )   Favorable   settlement of an issue with a taxing authority (5,013 )   Nondeductible   officers compensation 4,443 6,226 8,303 Other   nondeductible expenses 6,768 10,637 4,776 Other 2,497 (8,973 ) 6,730 Income tax   benefit $ (81,386 ) $ (24,698 ) $ (166,272 ) II-46 At December31, 2006, the Company had consolidated federal tax net operating loss carry forwards (NOLs) of $2,496,479, expiring on various dates through 2024. The Company has recorded a deferred tax asset for such NOLs.
The Companys NOLs expire as follows: 2010 $ 117,954 2011 151,008 2012 72,442 2018 101,547 2019 497,669 2020 110,970 2021 362,821 2022 231,138 2023 343,572 2024 507,358 $ 2,496,479 During 2006, the tax deduction resulting from the exercise and issuance of certain share-based awards exceeded the aggregate compensation expense for such awards by $11,876. This windfall deduction results in an excess tax benefit that must be analyzed to determine whether it has been realized. The Company uses the with-and-without approach to determine whether an excess tax benefit has been realized. Given the Companys NOLs position, no income tax benefit has been recognized for such excess tax benefit. Accordingly, the NOL above exclude $11,876 of windfall tax deductions occurring in 2006.
II-47 The tax effects of temporary differences which give rise to significant portions of deferred tax assets or liabilities and the corresponding valuation allowance at December31, 2006 and 2005 are as follows: December31, 2006 2005 Deferred Tax Asset   (Liability) Current Benefits of tax   loss carry forwards $ 121,047 $ 186,232 Compensation and   benefit plans 62,201 7,598 Allowance for   doubtful accounts 4,416 3,878 Reserve for   restructuring 1,723 3,833 Investments 14,694  Other assets  1,671 Other   liabilities 37,368 71,680 Deferred   tax asset 241,449 274,892 Valuation   allowance (5,412 ) (8,455 ) Net deferred tax   asset, current 236,037 266,437 Investments  (208,388 ) Deferred tax   liability, current  (208,388 ) Net deferred tax   asset, current 236,037 58,049 Noncurrent Benefits of tax   loss carry forwards 912,845 987,812 Compensation and   benefit plans 87,992 78,058 Other 32,895 8,472 Deferred tax   asset 1,033,732 1,074,342 Valuation   allowance (23,076 ) (33,075 ) Net deferred tax   asset, noncurrent 1,010,656 1,041,267 Fixed assets and   intangibles (461,372 ) (517,201 ) Investments (221,902 ) (73,718 ) Partnership   investments (573,744 ) (556,872 ) Other assets (16,481 ) (2,785 ) Deferred tax   liability, noncurrent (1,273,499 ) (1,150,576 ) Net deferred tax   liability, noncurrent (262,843 ) (109,309 ) Total net deferred tax   liability $ (26,806 ) $ (51,260 ) In general, deferred tax assets and liabilities are classified as either current or noncurrent based on the balance sheet classification of the underlying asset or liability. Current deferred tax assets and liabilities are netted and presented as either a current deferred tax asset or a current deferred tax liability. As of December 31, 2005, the current net deferred tax asset of $58,049 included a deferred tax liability of $208,388 relating to investments, which was primarily comprised of a deferred tax liability of $253,555 relating to investment securities pledged as collateral and derivative contracts offset by a deferred tax asset of $44,733 relating to an unrealized loss on an investment in Adelphia stock, which was realized in December 2006. Due primarily to the classifications of current and noncurrent investment securities pledged as collateral and derivative contracts, a deferred tax asset of $14,694 corresponding to these items has been included in current deferred tax assets as of December 31, 2006.
Deferred tax assets have resulted primarily from the Companys future deductible temporary differences and NOLs. In assessing the realizability of deferred tax assets, management considers whether it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax asset will not be realized. The Companys II-48 ability to realize its deferred tax assets depends upon the generation of sufficient future taxable income and tax planning strategies to allow for the utilization of its NOLs and deductible temporary differences. If such estimates and related assumptions change in the future, the Company may be required to record additional valuation allowances against its deferred tax assets, resulting in additional income tax expense in the Companys consolidated statement of operations. Management evaluates the realizability of the deferred tax assets and the need for additional valuation allowances quarterly. At this time, based on current facts and circumstances, management believes that it is more likely than not that the Company will realize benefit for its gross deferred tax assets, except those deferred tax assets against which a valuation allowance has been recorded which relate to certain state net operating loss carry forwards. In 2006, the Company recorded a decrease in the valuation allowance of $10,404 relating to certain state net operating loss carry forwards. In 2005 and 2004, the Company recorded increases in the valuation allowance of $6,459 and $14,036, respectively, relating to certain state net operating loss carry forwards. During 2006 and 2005, certain state net operating loss carry forwards expired prior to utilization. The deferred tax asset corresponding to the expired net operating loss carry forwards had been previously fully offset by a valuation allowance. The deferred tax asset and valuation allowance were both reduced by $2,638 and $6,953 in 2006 and 2005, respectively.
At times, the Company takes certain positions on its tax returns that may be challenged by various taxing authorities. These tax positions arise in connection with certain transactions or operations. Although the Company believes it has support for its taxpositions, it has recorded a liability for its best estimate of the probable loss on such positions. Management does not believe that the resolution of these matters will have a material adverseimpact on the financial position of the Company.
The Company is currently being audited by the state of Ohio for the tax year ended December 31, 2000. The primary audit issue is the amount of gain that should be subject to tax in Ohio pursuant to the 2000 sale of certain cable television systems. Ohio has asserted that more of the gain should be taxed in Ohio. Ohio has issued a proposed assessment of additional tax due of approximately $55,000 plus interest of approximately $12,000. As of December 31, 2006, the Company has recorded a liability with respect to such matter of approximately $11,000, including interest, which represents managements current estimate of the additional amount that may be owed.
NOTE 13. OPERATING LEASES The Company leases certain office, production, transmission, theater, and event facilities under terms of leases expiring at various dates through 2027. The leases generally provide for fixed annual rentals plus certain real estate taxes and other costs. Rent expense for the years ended December31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 amounted to $82,342, $79,590 and $76,300, respectively.
In addition, the Company rents space on utility poles for its operations. The Companys pole rental agreements are for varying terms, and management anticipates renewals as they expire. Pole rental expense for the years ended December31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 amounted to $13,777, $12,325 and $13,607, respectively.
Madison Square Garden operates Radio City Music Hall under a long-term lease. Under the terms of the lease agreement, Madison Square Garden is required to meet certain net worth, cash flow, and building utilization requirements. In the event Madison Square Garden were to fail to meet the lease requirements and was unable to remedy such defaults, the landlord could have the option of terminating the lease.
II-49 The minimum future annual payments for all operating leases for continuing operations (with initial or remaining terms in excess of one year) during the next five years, including pole rentals from January1, 2007 through December31, 2011, and thereafter, at rates now in force are as follows: 2007 $ 91,214 2008 96,484 2009 92,753 2010 87,976 2011 82,746 Thereafter 508,855 NOTE 14. AFFILIATE AND RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS Equity Method Investments The following table reflects the Companys ownership percentages and balances of equity method investments as of December31, 2006 and 2005: OwnershipPercentages InvestmentBalances December31, 2006 2005 2006 2005 Fox Sports Net   New England 50.0 % 50.0 % $ 47,656 $ 39,463 Other 22.2 % N/A 2,294  Net investment   in affiliates $ 49,950 $ 39,463 The Companys share of the net income (loss) of these affiliates for the years ended December31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 is as follows: YearsEndedDecember31, 2006 2005 2004 Fox Sports Net   New England $ 6,698 $ 6,645 $ 6,194 National Sports   Partners (a)  (3,379 ) (19,731 ) National   Advertising Partners (a)  (47 ) 1,992 PVI Virtual   Media Services LLC (b)   (1,668 ) New York Metro,   LLC   216 $ 6,698 $ 3,219 $ (12,997 ) (a) See Note3 for a discussion of the Regional Programming Partners restructuring in 2005 which eliminated our ownership interest in these entities.
(b) PVI Virtual Media Services LLC was consolidated in the second quarter of 2004, pursuant to FIN No.46R and the ownership interest not owned by the Company was purchased in 2005.
II-50 The following table includes certain unaudited financial information for Fox Sports Net New England: December31, 2006 2005 (unaudited) Total assets $ 85,861 $ 67,391 Total liabilities* 13,502 12,049 * Includes amounts due to the Company from affiliates referred to below.
Amounts due to these affiliates at December31, 2006 and 2005 aggregated $477 and $1,428, respectively.
The Company provides certain transmission and production services to certain of these affiliates. For the years ended December31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, $ 1,358 , $1,608 and $1,502, respectively, of revenues were earned from services provided to these entities. Costs incurred by the Company for programming, entertainment and advertising services provided by these affiliates and included in operating expenses for the years ended December31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 amounted to $342, $3,509 and $16,186, respectively.
Other Affiliates and Related Parties During 2006, 2005 and 2004, the Company provided services to or incurred costs on behalf of other affiliates. These costs are reimbursed to the Company. Aggregate amounts due from and due to these affiliates at December31, 2006 and 2005 are summarized below: December31, 2006 2005 Advances to   affiliates $ 229,677 $ 121,128 Accounts payable to   affiliates 94 39 In February 2005, the Company signed a letter of intent under which VOOM HD, LLC, a private company formed by two of the Companys Class B shareholders, CharlesF. Dolan and ThomasC. Dolan, had planned to acquire from the Company the business, assets and liabilities of the Companys Rainbow DBS satellite business not included in the agreement with EchoStar (see Note 3). The letter of intent between the Company and VOOM HD, LLC expired on February28, 2005 without a definitive agreement being reached.
Following the expiration of the letter of intent, the Company began shutting down the Rainbow DBS satellite distribution operations. In March 2005, the Company entered into an agreement with CharlesF. Dolan and ThomasC. Dolan (March 2005 Agreement) pursuant to which the parties agreed to work cooperatively to finalize the separation of Rainbow DBS from the Company. The Company agreed that no new shutdown activities would be undertaken at Rainbow DBS during the term of the agreement. In accordance with the March 2005 Agreement, CharlesF. Dolan deposited $15,000 with the Company to fund any expenditures above those contemplated in the shutdown budget, net of March 2005 revenue earned. This agreement terminated on March31, 2005 and, in accordance with its terms, the distribution business of Rainbow DBS was shutdown effective April30, 2005 and the Board of Directors confirmed such shutdown decision at a meeting on April7, 2005.
II-51 Cash deposited by CharlesF. Dolan under the March 2005 Agreement that was not used to fund costs or segregated to pay costs associated with new commitments or other agreements of $8,663 was returned to him prior to December31, 2005. Cash of $6,337 deposited by CharlesF. Dolan which was used to fund the incremental costs less March 2005 revenue earned related to the Rainbow DBS satellite distribution business, net of the related discounted income tax benefit to the Company, has been recorded as a deemed net equity contribution.
Fox Sports Net Ohio and Cleveland Indians Baseball Club Limited Partnership (the Indians) are parties to a multi-year rights agreement under which Fox Sports Net Ohio pays license fees to the Indians in exchange for telecast rights to substantially all regular season Indians games. As a result of the restructuring of Regional Programming Partners in April 2005, the Company no longer owns interests in Fox Sports Net Ohio. The Indians are owned by (i)Lawrence Dolan, a brother of CharlesF. Dolan, the Companys Chairman, (ii)a trust, the beneficiaries of which are Lawrence Dolan and certain descendants of Lawrence Dolan, and (iii)certain other trusts, the beneficiaries of which are certain descendants of CharlesF. Dolan , including JamesL. Dolan, the Companys Chief Executive Officer, and Marianne Dolan Weber and PatrickF. Dolan, officers of the Company and brothers of JamesL. Dolan and a trust whose discretionary beneficiaries include Brian Sweeney, son-in-law of CharlesF. Dolan, brother-in-law of JamesL. Dolan, and a director. Management control of the Indians is held by Lawrence Dolan.
NOTE 15. BENEFIT PLANS Adoption of Statement No. 158 Effective December31, 2006, the Company adopted the recognition and disclosure provisions of Statement No.158 which requires employers to recognize in their balance sheets the overfunded or underfunded status of defined benefit postretirement plans, measured as the difference between the fair value of plan assets and the benefit obligation (the projected benefit obligation for pension plans and the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation for other postretirement plans). Employers must recognize the change in the funded status of the plan in the year in which the change occurs through accumulated other comprehensive income. Statement No.158 also requires plan assets and obligations to be measured as of the employers balance sheet date. The measurement provision of Statement No.158 will be effective on January 1, 2009 for the Company with early application encouraged. This will not have an impact to the Company as its current measurement date is December 31.
Prior to the adoption of the recognition provisions of Statement No.158, the Company accounted for its defined benefit postretirement plans under Statement No.87 and SFAS No.106, Employers Accounting for Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions (Statement No.106). Statement No.87 required that a liability (additional minimum pension liability or AML) be recorded when the accumulated benefit obligation (ABO) liability exceeded the fair value of plan assets. Any adjustment was recorded as a non-cash charge to accumulated other comprehensive income in shareholders equity (deficit). Statement No.106 required that the liability recorded should represent the actuarial present value of all future benefits attributable to an employees service rendered to date. Under both Statement No.87 and Statement No.106, changes in the funded status were not immediately recognized, rather they were deferred and recognized ratably over future periods. Upon adoption of the recognition provisions of Statement No.158, the Company recognized the amounts of prior changes in the funded status of its postretirement benefit plans through accumulated other comprehensive loss. As a result, the Company recognized the following adjustments in individual line items of its consolidated balance sheet as of December31, 2006: II-52 PriortoAML andStatementNo.158 Adjustments Pretax2006 AML Adjustment PretaxEffect ofAdopting Statement No.158 PostAML andStatementNo.158 Adjustments Accrued employee   related costs $ 69,389 $  $ (69,389 ) $  Defined benefit   obligations  2,516 81,092 83,608 Accumulated other   comprehensive loss (6,028 ) (2,516 ) (11,703 ) (20,247 ) Income tax benefits associated with the effect of adopting Statement No.158 and the 2006 AML adjustment amounted to $4,799 and $1,032, respectively.
The amounts in accumulated other comprehensive loss that are expected to be recognized as components of net periodic benefit cost (credit) during the next fiscal year are as follows: Total Prior service   cost recognition $ (108 ) Actuarial loss 187 Transition asset   recognition (3 ) Total $ 76 The adoption of Statement No.158 had no effect on the Companys consolidated statement of operations for the year ended December31, 2006, or for any prior period presented and does not have a material impact to any of the Companys debt covenants under its various credit agreements.
Plan Descriptions Qualified and Non-qualified Defined Benefit Plans Cablevision Retirement Plans (collectively, the Cablevision Qualified and Non-qualified Defined Benefit Plans) The Company sponsors a non-contributory qualified defined benefit Cash Balance Retirement Plan (the Retirement Plan) for the benefit of non-union employees other than those of the theater business. Under the Retirement Plan, the Company credits a certain percentage of eligible base pay into an account established for each participant which is credited with a market based rate of return annually.
The Company also maintains an unfunded non-contributory non-qualified defined benefit excess cash balance plan covering certain Company employees who participate in the Retirement Plan and an unfunded supplemental defined benefit plan (the CSC Supplemental Benefit Plan) for the benefit of certain officers and employees of the Company. As part of the CSC Supplemental Benefit Plan, the Company established a nonqualified defined benefit pension plan, which provides that, upon attaining normal retirement age, a participant will receive a benefit equal to a specified percentage of the participants average compensation, as defined. All participants are 100% vested in the CSC Supplemental Benefit Plan.
Madison Square Garden Retirement Plans (collectively, the Madison Square Garden Qualified and Non-qualified Defined Benefit Plans) II-53 Madison Square Garden sponsors a non-contributory qualified defined benefit pension plan (MSG Plan) covering its non-union employees hired prior to January1, 2001. Benefits payable to retirees under this plan are based upon years of service and participants compensation.
Madison Square Garden also maintains an unfunded, non-qualified defined benefit pension plan for the benefit of certain employees of Madison Square Garden who participate in the underlying qualified plan. This plan provides that, upon retirement, a participant will receive a benefit based on a formula which reflects the participants compensation. In addition, Madison Square Garden sponsors two non-contributory qualified defined benefit pension plans covering certain of its union employees (MSG Union Plans). Benefits payable to retirees under these plans are based upon years of service and, for one plan, participants compensation, and are funded through trusts established under the plans.
Other Postretirement Benefit Plan Madison Square Garden sponsors a contributory welfare plan (Madison Square Garden Postretirement Benefit Plan) which provides certain postretirement health care benefits to certain of its employees hired prior to January1, 2001 and their dependents.
Defined Contribution Benefit Plans The Company also maintains the Cablevision CHOICE 401(k) savings plan, a contributory qualified defined contribution plan for the benefit of non-union employees of the Company. The Company also has five additional 401(k) plans covering various union employees, as well as employees of certain businesses. Employees can contribute a percentage of eligible annual compensation and the Company will make a matching cash contribution or discretionary contribution, as defined in the respective plan. In addition, the Company maintains an unfunded non-qualified excess savings plan that the Company provides a matching contribution to similar to the Cablevision CHOICE 401(k) plan. The cost associated with these plans was $16,909, $13,554 and $13,255 for the years ended December31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.
Multi-employer Plans Madison Square Garden also contributes to various multiemployer pension plans. Contributions made to these multiemployer plans for the years ended December31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 amounted to $6,966, $5,846 and $5,516, respectively.
II-54 Plan Results for Defined Benefit Plans Summarized below is the funded status and the amounts recorded on the Companys consolidated balance sheets for all of the Companys qualified and non-qualified defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit plans at December31, 2006 and 2005: CablevisionQualifiedand Non-qualifiedDefined BenefitPlans MadisonSquareGarden Qualifiedand Non-qualifiedDefined BenefitPlans MadisonSquareGarden Postretirement BenefitPlan 2006 2005 2006 2005 2006 2005 Change in benefit   obligation: Benefit   obligation at beginning of year $ 142,922 $ 117,668 $ 93,670 $ 77,921 $ 7,494 $ 6,237 Service cost 29,378 26,593 4,988 4,205 399 415 Interest cost 8,212 6,727 5,441 4,508 361 361 Actuarial loss   (gain) 3,776 682 (2,718 ) 8,538 (1,086 ) 710 Benefits paid (6,632 ) (8,748 ) (1,572 ) (1,502 ) (261 ) (229 ) Benefit   obligation at end of year 177,656 142,922 99,809 93,670 6,907 7,494 Change in plan assets: Fair value of   plan assets at beginning of year 116,604 92,002 45,198 36,905   Actual return on   plan assets 10,737 6,758 5,091 1,236   Employer   contributions 25,511 26,592 5,827 8,559   Benefits paid (6,632 ) (8,748 ) (1,572 ) (1,502 )   Fair value of   plan assets at end of year 146,220 116,604 54,544 45,198   Unfunded status at end   of year (31,436 ) (26,318 ) (45,265 ) (48,472 ) (6,907 ) (7,494 ) Unrecognized   actuarial loss  4,801  17,557  1,662 Unrecognized   prior service cost (credit)    284  (1,315 ) Unrecognized   transition asset    (7 )   Net amount recognized $ (31,436 ) $ (21,517 ) $ (45,265 ) $ (30,638 ) $ (6,907 ) $ (7,147 ) The accumulated benefit obligations for the Cablevision Qualified and Non-qualified Defined Benefit Plans and Madison Square Garden Qualified and Non-qualified Defined Benefit Plans aggregated $252,952 and $215,189 for the years ended December31, 2006 and 2005, respectively.
The Companys net unfunded liability relating to its defined benefit and other postretirement benefit plans at December31, 2006 is as follows: Cablevision   Qualified and Non-qualified Defined Benefit Plans $ (31,436 ) Madison Square   Garden Qualified and Non-qualified Defined Benefit Plans (45,265 ) Madison Square   Garden Postretirement Benefit Plan (6,907 ) (83,608 ) Less: Current   portion 1,091 Long-term defined   benefit plan and other postretirement plan obligations $ (82,517 ) II-55 Components of the net periodic pension cost, recorded primarily in selling, general and administrative expenses, for the Companys qualified and non-qualified defined benefit and other postretirement plans for the years ended December31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, are as follows: CablevisionQualifiedand NonqualifiedDefinedBenefitPlans MadisonSquareGarden Qualifiedand NonqualifiedDefinedBenefitPlans MadisonSquareGarden PostretirementBenefitPlan 2006 2005 2004 2006 2005 2004 2006 2005 2004 Service cost $ 29,378 $ 26,593 $ 26,459 $ 4,988 $ 4,205 $ 4,231 $ 399 $ 415 $ 395 Interest cost 8,212 6,727 5,950 5,441 4,508 4,176 361 361 337 Amortization of   prior service cost          Expected return   on plan assets (9,882 ) (8,046 ) (6,667 ) (3,686 ) (3,032 ) (2,561 )    Recognized prior   service cost (credit) 11 62 62 25 29 40 (133 ) (156 ) (222 ) Recognized   actuarial (gain) loss  93  627 117 212 (4 ) 17 35 Recognized   transition (asset) obligation    (3 ) (3 ) (4 )    Net periodic benefit   cost $ 27,719 $ 25,429 $ 25,804 $ 7,392 $ 5,824 $ 6,094 $ 623 $ 637 $ 545 Plan Assumptions for Defined Benefit Plans Weighted-average assumptions used to determine net periodic cost and benefit obligations for the Cablevision Qualified and Non-qualified Defined Benefit Plans are as follows: Weighted-Average Assumptions Net Periodic Benefit Cost for the Years Ended December 31, Benefit Obligations at December 31, 2006 2005 2004 2006 2005 Discount rate 5.80 % 6.05 % 6.30 % 5.80 % 5.80 % Rate of increase in   future compensation levels 4.15 % 4.12 % 4.12 % 4.40 % 4.15 % Rate of return on plan   assets (Qualified plans only) 8.00 % 8.00 % 8.00 % N/A N/A II-56 Weighted-average assumptions used to determine net periodic benefit cost and benefit obligations for the Madison Square Garden Qualified and Non-qualified Defined Benefit Plans are as follows: Weighted-AverageAssumptions NetPeriodicBenefitCostfortheYears EndedDecember31, BenefitObligationsat December31, 2006 2005 2004 2006 2005 Discount rate 5.75 % 6.00 % 6.25 % 6.14 % 5.75 % Rate of increase   in future compensation levels 4.00 % 3.16 % 3.17 % 4.39 % 4.00 % Rate of return on plan   assets (Qualified plans only) 8.00 % 8.00 % 8.00 % N/A N/A Prior to 2005, the discount rate used by the Company was based upon published yields for high quality fixed income investments from Moodys and Merrill Lynch. In 2006 and 2005, the discount rate was determined (based on the expected duration of the benefit payments for the pension plan) by referring to applicable bond yields (such as Moodys Aaa Corporate Bonds) and the Buck Consultants Discount Rate Model (which is developed by examining the yields on selected highly rated corporate bonds), to select a rate at which the Company believed the pension benefits could be effectively settled.
The Companys expected long-term return on plan assets is based on a periodic review and modeling of the plans asset allocation structure over a long-term horizon. Expectations of returns for each asset class are the most important of the assumptions used in the review and modeling and are based on comprehensive reviews of historical data and economic/financial market theory. The expected long-term rate of return was selected from within the reasonable range of rates determined by (a)historical real returns, net of inflation, for the asset classes covered by the investment policy, and (b)projections of inflation over the long-term period during which benefits are payable to plan participants.
Weighted-average assumptions used to determine net periodic benefit cost and benefit obligations for the Madison Square Garden Postretirement Plan are as follows: Weighted-AverageAssumptions NetPeriodicBenefitCostfortheYears EndedDecember31, BenefitObligationsat December31, 2006 2005 2004 2006 2005 Discount rate 5.75 % 6.00 % 6.25 % 6.05 % 5.75 % Health care trend rate assumed for next year 9.00 % 8.00 % 9.00 % 9.00 % 9.00 % Rate to which the cost trend rate is assumed to   decline (the ultimate trend rate) 5.00 % 5.00 % 5.00 % 5.00 % 5.00 % Year that the   rate reaches the ultimate trend rate 2012 2009 2009 2013 2012 II-57 Assumed healthcare cost trend rates have a significant effect on the amounts reported for the healthcare plans. A one-percentage point change in the assumed health care cost trend rates would have the following effects: Increase(Decrease)innetPeriodicBenefitCost fortheYearsEndedDecember31, Increase(Decrease)inBenefit ObligationsatDecember31, 2006 2005 2004 2006 2005 One percentage point   increase $ 129 $ 137 $ 131 $ 1,001 $ 1,148 One percentage point decrease $ (107 ) $ (114 ) $ (110 ) $ (840 ) $ (958 ) Plan Assets and Investment Policy The weighted average asset allocation of Cablevisions qualified plan at December31, 2006 and 2005 was as follows: PlanAssetsatDecember31, 2006 2005 Asset Category: Equity securities 57 % 57 % Fixed income securities 34 34 Other 9 9 100 % 100 % The weighted average asset allocation of the MSGs qualified plans at December31, 2006 and 2005 was as follows: PlanAssetsatDecember31, 2006 2005 Asset Category: Equity   securities 62 % 61 % Fixed income   securities 29 32 Other 9 7 100 % 100 % Generally, the plans investment objectives are to invest in portfolios that would obtain a market rate of return throughout economic cycles, commensurate with the investment risk and cash flow needs of the plans. This requires the plans to subject a portion of their assets to increased risk to generate a greater rate of return.
II-58 The investments in each portfolio are readily marketable and can be sold to fund benefit payment obligations of the plans as they become payable.
Benefit Payments and Contributions for Defined Benefit Plans The following benefit payments, which reflect expected future service, as appropriate, are expected to be paid relating to Cablevisions Qualified and Non-qualified Defined Benefit Plans: 2007 $ 16,033 2008 22,066 2009 28,888 2010 25,435 2011 27,098 2012-2016 152,266 The following benefit payments, which reflect expected future service, as appropriate, are expected to be paid relating to the Madison Square Garden Qualified and Non-qualified Defined Benefit Plans: 2007 $ 2,088 2008 2,376 2009 2,767 2010 2,930 2011 3,063 2012-2016 19,822 Of the amounts expected to be paid in 2007, the Company has recorded $1,091 as a current liability in its consolidated balance sheet at December31, 2006, since this amount represents the aggregate benefit payment obligation payable in the next twelve months that exceeds the fair value of aggregate plan assets at December31, 2006.
The Company makes contributions to the Retirement Plan, the MSG Plan and MSG Union Plans, which are all qualified defined benefit plans. The Company currently expects to contribute approximately $24,000 to the Retirement Plan and contribute to the MSG Plan and MSG Union Plans in 2007 approximately $4,800 and $320, respectively.
NOTE 16. EQUITY AND LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLANS Equity Plans Cablevision has employee stock plans under which it is authorized to grant incentive stock options, nonqualified stock options, restricted shares, stock appreciation rights, and bonus awards. The exercise price of stock options can not be less than the fair market value per share of Cablevisions ClassA common stock on the date the option is granted and the options expire no later than ten years from date of grant (or up to one additional year in the case of the death of a holder of nonqualified options) . Stock appreciation rights provide for the employee to receive a cash payment in an amount equal to the difference between the fair market value of the stock as of the date the right is exercised, and the exercise price. Options and stock appreciation rights granted in 2006, 2005 and 2004 typically vest in 33-1/3 annual increments beginningone year from the date of grant. Restricted shares granted in 2006, 2005 and 2004 were typically subject to four year cliff vesting. Performance based options granted in 2005 were II-59 typically subject to approximately three year or two year cliff vesting, with exercisability subject to performance criteria.
Cablevision adopted Statement No.123R on January1, 2006, using the modified prospective method. The modified prospective method requires that share-based compensation expense be recorded for the unvested portion of the restricted shares, stock options and stock appreciation rights outstanding at December31, 2005, over the remaining service periods related to such awards. Cablevision will continue using the Black-Scholes valuation model in determining the fair value of share-based payments. In accordance with the pro forma disclosure requirements of Statement No.123, Cablevision recognized the majority of the share-based compensation costs using the accelerated recognition method. Subsequent to January1, 2006, Cablevision will continue to recognize the cost of previously granted share-based awards under the accelerated recognition method and will recognize the cost for new share-based awards on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period. In connection with Cablevisions adoption of Statement No.123R, the Company recorded $862 as a cumulative change in accounting principle, net of taxes on the Companys consolidated statement of operations. Share-based compensation allocated to the Company by Cablevision for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 was $81,122, $26,795 and $34,439, respectively, and has been recorded as a component of selling, general and administrative expense.
Long-Term Incentive Plan In April 2006, Cablevisions Board of Directors approved the Cablevision Systems Corporation 2006 Cash Incentive Plan, which was approved by Cablevisions stockholders at its annual stockholders meeting in May 2006.
Pursuant to Cablevisions Long-Term Incentive Plan, certain executives have been granted cash awards, some of which are performance based, that vest over varying required service periods and are typically payable at the end of the vesting period or on specified dates. One form of award received by certain executives under the Plan was a performance retention award, vesting over 7 years. The terms of the performance retention awards provide that the executive could have requested a loan from the Company in the amount of the award prior to its vesting, subject to certain limitations, provided that such loan was secured by a lien in favor of the Company on property owned by the executive.
Effective July30, 2002, such requests for advances on amounts of awards are no longer permitted. Imputed interest to those executives on these interest free loans amounted to $900, $911 and $1,293, respectively for the years ended December31, 2006, 2005 and 2004. As of December31, 2006 and 2005, $23,850 was outstanding in respect of advances made pursuant to this plan.
In connection with long-term incentive awards granted under the two plans, the Company has recorded expense of $59,348, $41,959 and $31,505 for the years ended December31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. At December 31, 2006 and 2005, the Company had accrued $51,905 and $17,990 for performance-based awards for which the performance criteria had not been met as of December 31, 2006 as such awards are based on achievement of certain performance criteria through December 31, 2008. The Company currently believes that it is probable that the performance criteria established for these performance-based awards will be met. If the Company subsequently determines that the performance criteria for such awards is not probable of being achieved, the Company would reverse the accrual in respect of such award at that time.
In addition, in 2003, the Company granted certain management employees cash awards that vested in July 2005 when the Company reached certain performance goals. Such awards were amortized ratably over the period in which the Company was expected to achieve these goals, and accordingly recorded expense of $2,380 and $18,868 in respect of these awards in 2005 and 2004, respectively.
II-60 NOTE 17.
CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS Future cash payments required under unconditional purchase obligations pursuant to contracts entered into by the Company in the normal course of business are as follows as of December31, 2006: PaymentsDuebyPeriod Total Year1 Years23 Years45 Morethan 5years Off balance   sheet arrangements: Programming obligations (1) $ 2,902,599 $ 828,101 $ 1,175,374 $ 699,735 $ 199,389 Purchase obligations (2) 2,208,418 474,833 446,360 269,695 1,017,530 Guarantees (3) 2,221 2,221    Letters of credit (4) 54,295 2,300 1,722  50,273 Total 5,167,533 1,307,455 1,623,456 969,430 1,267,192 Contractual   obligations reflected on the balance sheet: Purchase obligations (5) 87,707 57,026 9,593 6,592 14,496 Total $ 5,255,240 $ 1,364,481 $ 1,633,049 $ 976,022 $ 1,281,688 (1) Programming obligations represent contractual commitments with various programming vendors to provide video services to the Companys subscribers. Future fees under such contracts are based on numerous factors, including the number of subscribers receiving the programming. Amounts reflected above are based on the number of subscribers receiving the programming as of December 2006 multiplied by the per subscriber rates contained in the executed agreements in effect as of December31, 2006.
(2) Purchase obligation amounts not reflected on the balance sheet consist primarily of (i)long-term rights agreements which provide Madison Square Garden and other regional sports networks with exclusive broadcast rights to certain live sporting events in exchange for minimum contractual payments, (ii)payments under employment agreements that we have with our professional sports teams personnel that are generally guaranteed regardless of employee injury or termination, and (iii)minimum purchase requirements incurred in the normal course of the Companys operations.
(3) Includes outstanding guarantees primarily by CSC Holdings in favor of certain financial institutions in respect of ongoing interest expense obligations and potential early termination events in connection with the monetization of the Companys holdings of Charter Communications common stock. Amounts payable under such monetization guarantees are estimated as of a particular point in time by the financial institution counterparty and are based upon the current price of the underlying common stock and various other assumptions, including stock market volatility and prevailing interest rates. Such guaranteed amounts approximate the fair value of the monetization indebtedness less the sum of the fair values of the underlying stock and the equity collar as reflected in the Companys accompanying consolidated balance sheet.
(4) Consist primarily of letters of credit obtained by CSC Holdings in favor of insurance providers and certain governmental authorities for the Telecommunications Services segment.
(5) Consist principally of amounts earned under employment agreements that we have with our professional sports teams personnel. Other long-term obligations also include deferred carriage payments.
The future cash payments reflected above do not include the impact of potential insurance recoveries or amounts which may be due to the National Basketball Association (NBA) for luxury tax payments.
The future cash payments reflected above also do not include the payments required under the Companys agreements with EchoStar relating to the launch and operation of the II-61 business of Rainbow HD Holdings, LLC, the Companys VOOM HD Networks high-definition television programming service. EchoStar was issued a 20% interest in Rainbow HD Holdings, the Companys subsidiary owning the VOOM HD Networks programming service, and that 20% interest will not be diluted until $500,000 in cash has been invested in Rainbow HD Holdings by the Company. Under the terms of the affiliation arrangements with EchoStar covering the VOOM HD Networks for a 15 year term, if Rainbow HD Holdings fails to spend $100,000 per year up to a maximum of $500,000 in the aggregate, on its service offerings, EchoStar may terminate the affiliation agreement. The Company has the right to terminate the affiliation agreement if the VOOM HD Networks are discontinued in the future.
On the fifth or eighth anniversary of the effective date of the agreement, the termination of the affiliation agreement by EchoStar, or other specified events, EchoStar has a put right to require a wholly-owned subsidiary of Rainbow Media Holdings to purchase all of its equity interests in Rainbow HD Holdings at fair value. On the seventh or tenth anniversary of the effective date of the agreement, or the second anniversary date of the termination of the Affiliation Agreement by EchoStar, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Rainbow Media Holdings has a call right to purchase all of EchoStars ownership in Rainbow HD Holdings at fair value.
Many of the Companys franchise agreements and utility pole leases require the Company to remove its cable wires and other equipment upon termination of the respective agreements. The Company has concluded that the fair value of these asset retirement obligations cannot be reasonably estimated since the range of potential settlement dates is not determinable.
NOTE 18. LEGAL MATTERS Tracking Stock Litigation In August 2002, purported class actions naming as defendants Cablevision and each of its directors were filed in the Delaware Chancery Court. The actions, which allege breach of fiduciary duties and breach of contract with respect to the exchange of the Rainbow Media Group tracking stock for Cablevision NY Group common stock, were purportedly brought on behalf of all holders of publicly traded shares of Rainbow Media Group tracking stock. The actions sought to (i)enjoin the exchange of Rainbow Media Group tracking stock for Cablevision NY Group common stock, (ii)enjoin any sales of Rainbow Media Group assets, or, in the alternative, award rescissory damages, (iii)if the exchange is completed, rescind it or award rescissory damages, (iv)award compensatory damages, and (v)award costs and disbursements. The actions were consolidated into one action on September17, 2002, and on October3, 2002, Cablevision filed a motion to dismiss the consolidated action.
The action was stayed by agreement of the parties pending resolution of a related action brought by one of the plaintiffs to compel the inspection of certain books and records of Cablevision. On October26, 2004, the parties entered into a stipulation dismissing the related action, and providing for Cablevisions production of certain documents. On December13, 2004, plaintiffs filed a consolidated amended complaint. Cablevision filed a motion to dismiss the amended complaint. On April19, 2005, the court granted that motion in part, dismissing the breach of contract claim but declining to dismiss the breach of fiduciary duty claim on the pleadings.
In August 2003, a purported class action naming as defendants Cablevision, directors and officers of Cablevision and certain current and former officers and employees of the Companys Rainbow Media Holdings and American Movie Classics subsidiaries was filed in New York Supreme Court by the Teachers Retirement System of Louisiana (TRSL). The actions relate to the August 2002 Rainbow Media Group tracking stock exchange and allege, among other things, that the exchange ratio was based upon a price of the Rainbow Media Group tracking stock that was artificially deflated as a result of the improper recognition of certain expenses at the national services division of Rainbow Media Holdings.
II-62 The complaint alleges breaches by the individual defendants of fiduciary duties. The complaint also alleges breaches of contract and unjust enrichment by Cablevision. The complaint seeks monetary damages and such other relief as the court deems just and proper. On October31, 2003, Cablevision and other defendants moved to stay the action in favor of the previously filed actions pending in Delaware or, in the alternative, to dismiss for failure to state a claim. On June10, 2004, the court stayed the action on the basis of the previously filed action in Delaware. TRSL subsequently filed a motion to vacate the stay in the New York action, and simultaneously filed a motion to intervene in the Delaware action and to stay that action. Cablevision opposed both motions. On April19, 2005, the court in the Delaware action denied the motion to stay the Delaware action and granted TRSLs motion to intervene in that action. On June22, 2005, the court in the New York action denied TRSLs motion to vacate the stay in that action.
Cablevision believes the claims in both the Delaware action and the New York action are without merit and is contesting the lawsuits vigorously.
The Wiz Bankruptcy TW, Inc. (TW), a former subsidiary of the Company and operator of The Wiz consumer retail electronics business, is the subject of a Chapter11 bankruptcy proceeding in the U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the District of Delaware. In February 2005, TW filed a complaint in the bankruptcy proceeding against Cablevision and certain of its affiliates seeking recovery of alleged preferential transfers in the aggregate amount of $193,457. Also in February 2005, the Official Committee of Unsecured Creditors of TW (the Committee) filed a motion seeking authority to assume the prosecution of TWs alleged preference claims and to prosecute certain other causes of action. The bankruptcy court granted the Committees motion on or about March10, 2005, thereby authorizing the Committee, on behalf of TW, to continue the preference suit and to assert other claims. On March12, 2005, the Committee filed a complaint in the bankruptcy court against Cablevision, certain of its affiliates, and certain present and former officers and directors of Cablevision and of its former subsidiary Cablevision Electronics Investments, Inc. (CEI). The Committees complaint, as amended, asserts preferential transfer claims allegedly totaling $193,858, breach of contract, promissory estoppel, and misrepresentation claims allegedly totaling $310,000, and fraudulent conveyance, breach of fiduciary duty, and other claims seeking unspecified damages. On June30, 2005, the defendants filed a motion to dismiss several of the claims in the amended complaint. On October31, 2005, the bankruptcy court denied the motion to dismiss. The bankruptcy courts ruling on the motion to dismiss allowed the Committee to proceed with its claims against Cablevision and the other defendants. Cablevision believes that the claims asserted by the Committee are without merit and is contesting them vigorously.
Dolan Family Group 2005 Proposal and Special Dividend Litigation In June and July 2005, a number of shareholder class action lawsuits were filed against Cablevision and its individual directors in the Delaware Chancery Court and the New York State Supreme Court for Nassau County relating to the Dolan Family Group proposal to acquire the outstanding, publicly held interests in Cablevision following a pro rata distribution of Rainbow Media Holdings. On October24, 2005, Cablevision received a letter from the Dolan Family Group withdrawing its June19, 2005 proposal and recommending the consideration of a special dividend. On November17, 2005, the plaintiffs filed a consolidated amended complaint in the New York Supreme Court action to relate to the special dividend proposed by the Dolan Family Group. On February9, 2006, the plaintiffs filed a second amended complaint adding allegations related to the December19, 2005 announcement that the Board had decided not to proceed with the proposed special dividend, and the January31, 2006 announcement that the Board was expected to begin reconsideration of a possible special dividend at its regularly scheduled meeting in II-63 March 2006. The amended complaint sought, among other things, to enjoin the payment of the special dividend proposed by the Dolan Family Group. As set forth below, the Nassau County actions were subsequently dismissed following settlement by the parties. The Delaware Chancery Court action is pending.
On December28, 2005, a purported shareholder derivative complaint was filed in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of New York alleging that certain events during 2005, including those relating to the proposed special dividend, constitute breaches of fiduciary duty. The action was brought derivatively on behalf of Cablevision and names as defendants each member of the Board of Directors. The complaint sought unspecified damages and contribution and indemnification by the defendants for any claims asserted against Cablevision as a result of the alleged breaches. The Eastern District of New York action was dismissed following settlement of the Nassau County actions, as set forth below.
On March27, 2006, Cablevision entered into a memorandum of understanding with respect to the settlement of the actions pending in the New York Supreme Court for Nassau County relating to a proposed special dividend. On April7, 2006, Cablevisions Board of Directors declared a special cash dividend of $10.00 per share which was paid on April24, 2006 to holders of record at the close of business on April18, 2006. A hearing on the proposed settlement was held on September25, 2006. On January5, 2007, the court signed an order approving the settlement and terminating these actions.
Dolan Family Group 2006 Proposal In October 2006, a number of shareholder class action lawsuits were filed against Cablevision and its individual directors in New York Supreme Court, Nassau County, relating to the October8, 2006 offer by the Dolan Family Group to acquire all of the outstanding shares of Cablevisions common stock, except for the shares held by the Dolan Family Group. These lawsuits allege breaches of fiduciary duty and seek injunctive relief to prevent consummation of the proposed transaction and compensatory damages. The trial court ordered expedited discovery, which began in November 2006. On January12, 2007, the Special Transaction Committee of the Board received a revised proposal from the Dolan Family Group to acquire all of the outstanding shares of common stock of Cablevision, except for the shares held by the Dolan Family Group. On January16, 2007, the Special Transaction Committee delivered a letter to Charles F. Dolan and James L. Dolan, rejecting as inadequate the revised proposal. This litigation is pending.
Director Litigation Cablevision was named as a nominal defendant in a purported shareholder derivative complaint filed in the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware. The action was brought derivatively on behalf of Cablevision and named as additional defendants CharlesF. Dolan, the Chairman of Cablevision, and Rand Araskog, Frank Biondi, John Malone and Leonard Tow, each of whom was appointed as a director on March2, 2005 by Mr.Dolan and certain other holders of the Companys NY Group ClassB common stock. The complaint alleges that CharlesF. Dolan, as the controlling ClassB shareholder of Cablevision, by purporting to remove three Cablevision Board members (WilliamJ. Bell, Sheila Mahony and Steven Rattner) and replace them with the four new directors, wrongfully interfered with the Boards role in managing the affairs of Cablevision and sought to substitute his judgment of how to proceed with the VOOM service of Cablevisions Rainbow DBS subsidiary above that of the Board. The action seeks, among other things, to preliminarily and permanently enjoin CharlesF. Dolan from interfering with the managerial prerogatives of Cablevisions Board; rescinding the purported appointment of the new directors; rescinding the removal of Mr.Bell, Ms.Mahony and Mr.Rattner as directors and restoring II-64 them to their positions as directors and directing CharlesF. Dolan to account to Cablevision for its damages. There have been no developments in the case since May 2005, when the parties agreed that defendants need not respond to the complaint until further notice from the plaintiff.
Patent Litigation Cablevision is named as a defendant in certain lawsuits claiming infringement of various patents relating to various aspects of our businesses. In certain of these cases other industry participants are also defendants. In certain of these cases we expect that any potential liability would be the responsibility of our equipment vendors pursuant to applicable contractual indemnification provisions. To the extent that the allegations in these lawsuits have been analyzed by us at the current stage of their proceedings, we believe that the claims are without merit and intend to defend the actions vigorously. The final disposition of these actions is not expected to have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position.
Contract Dispute In September 2005, Loral filed an action against Cablevision and Rainbow DBS for breach of contract based on a letter agreement dated March23, 2001 (the Letter Agreement) between Loral and Rainbow DBS. Loral alleges that the sale of the Rainbow-1 satellite and related assets to EchoStar constituted a sale of substantially all of the assets of Rainbow DBS triggering a Make Whole Payment under the Letter Agreement of $33,000 plus interest. A trial in this matter took place in January 2007 in New York Supreme Court for New York County. On January24, 2007, the jury returned a verdict finding that the EchoStar sale had triggered a Make Whole Payment under the Letter Agreement, requiring a payment to Loral of $50,898, including interest, which has been accrued for as of December31, 2006 and reflected as an expense in discontinued operations. Cablevision and Rainbow DBS have filed a motion for judgment as a matter of law, or in the alternative for a new trial, which is pending.
Accounting Related Investigations The improper expense recognition matter previously reported by the Company has been the subject of investigations by the SEC and the U.S. Attorneys Office for the Eastern District of New York. The SEC is continuing to investigate the improper expense recognition matter and the Companys timing of recognition of launch support, marketing and other payments under affiliation agreements. The Company continues to fully cooperate with such investigations.
Stock Option Related Matters The Company announced on August8, 2006 that, based on a voluntary review of its past practices in connection with grants of stock options and SARs, it has determined that the grant date and exercise price assigned to a number of its stock option and SAR grants during the 1997-2002 period did not correspond to the actual grant date and the fair market value of Cablevisions common stock on the actual grant date. The review was conducted with a law firm that was not previously involved with the Companys stock option plans. The Company has advised the SEC and the U.S. Attorneys Office for the Eastern District of New York of these matters and each has commenced an investigation. The Company received a grand jury subpoena from the U.S. Attorneys Office for the Eastern District of New York seeking documents related to the stock options issues. The Company received a document request from the SEC relating to II-65 its informal investigation into these matters. The Company continues to fully cooperate with such investigations.
In addition, in August, September and October 2006, purported derivative lawsuits (including one purported combined derivative and class action lawsuit) relating to the Companys past stock option and SAR grants were filed in New York State Supreme Court for Nassau County, the United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York, and Delaware Chancery Court for New Castle County, by parties identifying themselves as shareholders of Cablevision purporting to act on behalf of Cablevision. These lawsuits named as defendants certain present and former members of Cablevisions Board of Directors and certain present and former executive officers, alleging breaches of fiduciary duty and unjust enrichment relating to practices with respect to the dating of stock options, recordation and accounting for stock options, financial statements and SEC filings, and alleged violation of IRC162(m). In addition, certain of these lawsuits asserted claims under Sections10(b), 14(a), and 20(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Section 304 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. The lawsuits sought damages from all defendants, disgorgement from the officer defendants, declaratory relief, and equitable relief, including rescission of the 2006 Employee Stock Plan and voiding of the election of the director defendants. On October27, 2006, the Board of Directors of Cablevision appointed GroverC. Brown and ZacharyW. Carter as directors and, on the same date, appointed Messrs.Brown and Carter to a newly formed special litigation committee (SLC) of the Board. The SLC was directed by the Board to review and analyze the facts and circumstances surrounding these claims, which purport to have been brought derivatively on behalf of the Company, and to consider and determine whether or not prosecution of such claims is in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders, and what actions the Company should take with respect to the cases. The SLC, through its counsel, filed motions in all three courts to intervene and to stay all proceedings until completion of the SLCs independent investigation of the claims raised in these actions. The Delaware action subsequently was voluntarily dismissed without prejudice by the plaintiff. The actions pending in Nassau County have been consolidated and a single amended complaint has been filed in that jurisdiction. Similarly, the actions pending in the Eastern District of New York have been consolidated and a single amended complaint has been filed in that jurisdiction. Both the Nassau County action and the Eastern District of New York action assert derivative claims on behalf of the Company as well as direct claims on behalf of Cablevision shareholders relating to the Companys past stock option and SAR grants. On November14, 2006, the trial court in the Nassau County action denied the SLCs motion for a stay of proceedings and ordered expedited discovery. The Appellate Division of the New York State Supreme Court subsequently stayed all proceedings in the Nassau County action (including all discovery) pending the SLCs appeal of the denial of its stay motion. The SLCs appeal has been fully submitted but has not been scheduled for oral argument. In the Eastern District of New York action, the trial court has issued a stay of all proceedings until May1, 2007.
We have incurred substantial expenses in 2006 for legal, accounting, tax and other professional services in connection with the Companys voluntary review of its past practices in connection with grants of stock options and SARs, the preparation of the restated financial statements, stock option related litigation, and the investigations by the SEC and the U.S. Attorneys Office for the Eastern District of New York.
Other Matters In addition to the matters discussed above, the Company is party to various lawsuits, some involving claims for substantial damages. Although the outcome of these other matters cannot be predicted with certainty and the impact of the final resolution of these other matters on the Companys results of operations in a particular subsequent reporting period is not known, management does not believe that the II-66 resolution of these other lawsuits will have a material adverse effect on the financial position of the Company or the ability of the Company to meet its financial obligations as they become due.
NOTE 19. DISCLOSURES ABOUT THE FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Cash and Cash Equivalents, Restricted Cash, Accounts Receivable Trade, Notes and Other Receivables, Prepaid Expenses and Other Assets, Advances to Affiliates, Accounts Payable, Accounts Payable to Affiliates and Accrued Liabilities.
The carrying amount approximates fair value due to the short-term maturity of these instruments.
Derivative Contracts and Liabilities Under Derivative Contracts Derivative contracts are carried on the accompanying consolidated balance sheets at fair value based on dealer quotes.
Investment Securities and Investment Securities Pledged as Collateral Marketable securities are carried on the accompanying consolidated balance sheets at their fair value based upon quoted market prices.
Bank Debt, Collateralized Indebtedness, Notes Payable, Senior Notes and Debentures, and Senior Subordinated Notes and Debentures The fair values of each of the Companys debt instruments are based on quoted market prices for the same or similar issues or on the current rates offered to the Company for instruments of the same remaining maturities.
Interest Rate Swap Agreements Interest rate swap agreements are carried on the accompanying consolidated balance sheets at fair value based on valuations provided by a derivative valuation system using current market interest rate data. These values represent the estimated amount the Company would receive or pay to terminate agreements, taking into consideration current interest rates.
II-67 The fair value of the Companys debt instruments are summarized as follows: December31,2006 Carrying Amount Estimated FairValue Debt   instruments: Bank debt $ 4,992,500 $ 4,992,500 Collateralized indebtedness 921,574 901,035 Senior notes and debentures 4,493,956 4,545,089 Senior subordinated notes and debentures 497,011 551,682 Notes payable 18,843 19,165 $ 10,923,884 $ 11,009,471 December31,2005 Carrying Amount Estimated FairValue Debt   instruments: Bank debt $ 1,851,500 $ 1,851,500 Collateralized indebtedness 1,170,126 1,171,731 Senior notes and debentures 4,492,760 4,453,636 Senior subordinated notes and debentures 746,621 819,982 Notes payable 15,905 15,778 $ 8,276,912 $ 8,312,627 Fair value estimates related to our debt instruments and interest rate swap agreements discussed above are made at a specific point in time, based on relevant market information and information about the financial instrument. These estimates are subjective in nature and involve uncertainties and matters of significant judgment and therefore cannot be determined with precision. Changes in assumptions could significantly affect the estimates.
Minority Interest in Limited-Life Partnership The Company consolidates a 60% majority-owned interest in a limited-life partnership. The estimated liquidation value of the 40% minority interest is approximately $133,600 and $106,000 as of December31, 2006 and 2005, respectively, compared to the carrying value of such minority interest of $48,430 and $53,820, respectively. Such liquidation value estimate is made at a specific point in time based on relevant market information and consideration regarding current and expected future operating performance. These estimates are subjective in nature and involve uncertainties and matters of significant judgment and therefore cannot be determined with precision. Changes in assumptions could significantly affect the estimates.
NOTE 20. SEGMENT INFORMATION The Company classifies its business interests into three segments: Telecommunications Services, consisting principally of its video, high-speed data, Voice over Internet Protocol and its commercial data and voice services operations; Rainbow, consisting principally of interests in national and regional cable television programming networks, including AMC, IFC, WEtv, fuse and the VOOM HD Networks; and Madison Square Garden, which owns and operates professional sports teams, regional cable television networks and an entertainment business. Beginning in the first quarter of 2005, the VOOM HD Networks have been included in the Rainbow Segment. Those channels were previously included in the Rainbow DBS segment which has been discontinued. Prior period segment information has been reported on a comparable basis.
The Companys reportable segments are strategic business units that are managed separately. The Company evaluates segment performance based on several factors, of which the primary financial measure is business segment adjusted operating cash flow (defined as operating income (loss) before depreciation and amortization (including impairments), stock plan income or expense and restructuring charges or credits), a non-GAAP measure. The Company has presented the components that reconcile II-68 adjusted operating cash flow to operating income (loss), an accepted GAAP measure. Information as to the operations of the Companys business segments is set forth below.
YearsEndedDecember31, Revenues, net from continuing operations 2006 2005 2004 Telecommunications   Services $ 4,237,707 $ 3,606,765 $ 3,123,956 Rainbow 885,986 825,561 806,394 Madison Square   Garden 854,040 804,395 778,754 All other (a) 84,391 85,385 86,765 Intersegment   eliminations (134,662 ) (149,628 ) (163,332 ) $ 5,927,462 $ 5,172,478 $ 4,632,537 Intersegment eliminations are primarily affiliate revenues recognized by our Rainbow and MSG segments from the sale of cable network programming to our Telecommunication Services segment.
YearsEndedDecember31, Intersegment revenues 2006 2005 2004 Telecommunications   Services $ 1,529 $ 2,420 $ 7,123 Rainbow 38,438 48,547 62,650 Madison Square   Garden 94,695 98,661 93,559 $ 134,662 $ 149,628 $ 163,332 Reconciliation (by Segment and in Total) of Adjusted Operating Cash Flow to Operating Income (Loss) from Continuing Operations YearsEndedDecember31, Adjusted operating cash flow from continuing operations 2006 2005 2004 Telecommunications   Services $ 1,668,554 $ 1,412,199 $ 1,226,790 Rainbow 161,119 158,513 59,852 Madison Square   Garden 72,396 120,440 170,057 All other (b) (81,642 ) (80,632 ) (69,894 ) $ 1,820,427 $ 1,610,520 $ 1,386,805 Depreciation and amortization (including impairments) YearsEndedDecember31, included in continuing operations 2006 2005 2004 Telecommunications   Services $ (915,724 ) $ (843,177 ) $ (786,485 ) Rainbow (106,556 ) (113,429 ) (213,896 ) Madison Square   Garden (60,160 ) (62,834 ) (45,445 ) All other (c) (46,373 ) (64,203 ) (92,849 ) $ (1,128,813 ) $ (1,083,643 ) $ (1,138,675 ) II-69 YearsEndedDecember31, Stock expense included in continuing operations 2006 2005 2004 Telecommunications   Services $ (39,485 ) $ (14,657 ) $ (16,318 ) Rainbow (25,673 ) (6,513 ) (7,650 ) Madison Square   Garden (14,232 ) (3,836 ) (3,769 ) All other (c) (1,732 ) (1,789 ) (6,702 ) $ (81,122 ) $ (26,795 ) $ (34,439 ) YearsEndedDecember31, Restructuring credits (charges) included in continuing operations 2006 2005 2004 Telecommunications   Services $ 17 $ (295 ) $ (736 ) Rainbow (143 )  77 Madison Square   Garden  (366 ) (4,146 ) All other (c) 3,610 1,198 5,640 $ 3,484 $ 537 $ 835 YearsEndedDecember31, Operating income (loss) from continuing operations 2006 2005 2004 Telecommunications   Services $ 713,362 $ 554,070 $ 423,251 Rainbow 28,747 38,571 (161,617 ) Madison Square   Garden (1,996 ) 53,404 116,697 All other (b) (126,137 ) (145,426 ) (163,805 ) $ 613,976 $ 500,619 $ 214,526 II-70 A reconciliation of reportable segment amounts to the Companys consolidated balances is as follows: YearsEndedDecember31, 2006 2005 2004 Operating income (loss) from   continuing operations before income taxes Total operating income   for reportable segments $ 740,113 $ 646,045 $ 378,331 Other operating loss   (b) (126,137 ) (145,426 ) (163,805 ) Operating income 613,976 500,619 214,526 Items excluded from   operating income (loss): Interest expense (795,418 ) (640,010 ) (635,960 ) Interest income 33,229 16,341 8,300 Equity in net   income (loss) of affiliates 6,698 3,219 (12,997 ) Gain on sale of   programming and affiliate interests, net  64,968 2,232 Gain (loss) on   investments, net 290,052 (138,312 ) 134,598 Write-off of   deferred financing costs (14,083 )  (18,961 ) Gain (loss) on   derivative contracts, net (253,712 ) 119,180 (165,305 ) Loss on   extinguishment of debt (13,125 )  (78,571 ) Minority   interests (8,894 ) (5,471 ) (50,307 ) Miscellaneous,   net 2,837 828 63 Loss from continuing   operations before income taxes $ (138,440 ) $ (78,638 ) $ (602,382 ) (a) Represents net revenues of Clearview Cinemas and PVI Virtual Media, which was consolidated in the second quarter of 2004 in accordance with FIN No.46. In May 2005, Cablevision exchanged its 60% interest in PVI Latin America for the 40% interest in the rest of PVI that it did not already own.
(b) Principally includes unallocated corporate general and administrative costs, in addition to the operating results of Clearview Cinemas and PVI Virtual Media. It also includes costs allocated to Fox Sports Net Ohio, Fox Sports Net Florida, Fox Sports Net Chicago and Rainbow DBS (distribution operations) that were not eliminated as a result of the disposition or shut down of these businesses.
(c) Includes expenses and/or credits relating to Clearview Cinemas, PVI Virtual Media, certain corporate expenses/credits and certain costs allocated to Fox Sports Net Ohio, Fox Sports Net Florida, Fox Sports Net Chicago and Rainbow DBS (distribution operations) that were not eliminated as a result of the disposition or shut down of these businesses.
December31, 2006 2005 Assets Telecommunications   Services $ 6,636,723 $ 4,558,423 Rainbow (d) 2,377,835 2,573,132 Madison Square Garden 1,852,913 1,893,525 Corporate, other and   intersegment eliminations (894,243 ) 925,164 Assets held for sale  7,557 $ 9,973,228 $ 9,957,801 (d) Rainbow assets include amounts due from the Rainbow DBS distribution business of $276,245 and $271,277 at December31, 2006 and 2005, respectively, which are eliminated in consolidation.
II-71 YearsEndedDecember31, 2006 2005 2004 Capital   Expenditures Telecommunications   Services $ 819,747 $ 695,327 $ 621,480 Rainbow 21,062 29,063 44,313 Madison Square   Garden 23,444 20,993 12,153 Corporate and   other 22,044 23,909 19,568 $ 886,297 $ 769,292 $ 697,514 Substantially all revenues and assets of the Companys reportable segments are attributed to or located in the United States and are primarily concentrated in the New York metropolitan area.
NOTE 21. INTERIM FINANCIAL INFORMATION (Unaudited) The following is a summary of selected quarterly financial data for the years ended December31, 2006 and 2005: 2006: March31, June30, September30, December31, Total 2006 2006 2006 2006 2006 Revenues, net $ 1,409,358 $ 1,423,923 $ 1,408,736 $ 1,685,445 $ 5,927,462 Operating   expenses (1,305,631 ) (1,257,420 ) (1,273,301 ) (1,477,134 ) (5,313,486 ) Operating income $ 103,727 $ 166,503 $ 135,435 $ 208,311 $ 613,976 Income (loss)   from continuing operations $ (35,958 ) $ (8,175 ) $ (37,816 ) $ 24,895 $ (57,054 ) Income (loss)   from discontinued operations, net of taxes (2,386 ) 40,702 (421 ) (30,449 ) 7,446 Income (loss)   before cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle (38,344 ) 32,527 (38,237 ) (5,554 ) (49,608 ) Cumulative   effect of a change in accounting principle, net of taxes (862 )    (862 ) Net income (loss) $ (39,206 ) $ 32,527 $ (38,237 ) $ (5,554 ) $ (50,470 ) II-72 2005: March31, June30, September30, December31, Total 2005 2005 2005 2005 2005 Revenues, net $ 1,213,126 $ 1,231,859 $ 1,241,745 $ 1,485,748 $ 5,172,478 Operating   expenses (1,145,457 ) (1,136,790 ) (1,133,888 ) (1,255,724 ) (4,671,859 ) Operating income $ 67,669 $ 95,069 $ 107,857 $ 230,024 $ 500,619 Income (loss)   from continuing operations $ (78,357 ) $ (8,369 ) $ (45,404 ) $ 78,190 $ (53,940 ) Income (loss)   from discontinued operations, net of taxes (30,439 ) 240,761 870 5,661 216,853 Net income (loss) $ (108,796 ) $ 232,392 $ (44,534 ) $ 83,851 $ 162,913 NOTE 22. OTHER MATTERS Special Dividend Payment On April7, 2006, the Board of Directors of Cablevision declared a special cash dividend of $10.00 per share on each outstanding share of its Cablevision NY Group ClassA common stock and Cablevision NY Group ClassB common stock. The dividend was paid on April24, 2006 to holders of record at the close of business on April18, 2006. The dividend was paid from the proceeds of a distribution of approximately $3,000,000 held in cash and cash equivalents from CSC Holdings to Cablevision. The CSC Holdings distribution was funded from the proceeds of its termB loan facility which closed on March29, 2006 (See Note9). The dividend payment on all outstanding shares of Cablevision common stock and certain common stock equivalents amounted to $2,834,649. In addition, up to $126,838 representing $10.00 for each outstanding restricted share and each stock appreciation right and stock option vested as of December31, 2004, would be payable when, and if, the restrictions lapse on each restricted share and when, and if, such stock appreciation rights and stock options are exercised.
Settlement with Time Warner On September29, 2005, AMC and Time Warner Entertainment, L.P. settled existing litigation whereby the Company simultaneously entered into 11 separate affiliation agreements with Time Warner. These agreements included amendments and enhancements to existing affiliation agreements for some of the Companys programming services and new affiliation agreements and new distribution for other programming services of the Company. The amendments included a long-term extension of Time Warners affiliation agreement with AMC with rate and positioning terms that are favorable to AMC. Because of the long-term benefits to the Company from the extension and enhancement of the AMC agreement, substantially all of the required payments ($74,000 is payable to Time Warner over the 2005-2007 period) attributable to AMC have been capitalized as deferred carriage fees and will be amortized as a reduction to revenue over the remaining 13 year life of the extended AMC agreement.
II-73 New York Mets Agreement Termination In the second quarter of 2004, Madison Square Garden received $54,052 in cash in connection with the New York Mets notice of termination of their broadcast rights agreement with Madison Square Garden. The termination of the rights agreement was effective at the end of the 2005 baseball season. As a result of the termination notice, the Company recorded a reversal of a purchase accounting liability of $41,788 related to this broadcast rights agreement. These items have been reflected as other operating income in the Companys 2004 consolidated statement of operations.
Resolutions of Contract Disputes In June 2006, the Company collected $26,500related to the resolution of a contractual programming dispute, $19,476 of which was due in periods prior to 2006 but not recognized as a reduction to programming costs because it was being disputed and was not being paid by the affiliate. The underlying contract was terminated in June 2006 and no further payments will be received under the contract.
In connection with the resolution of another contract dispute, Fox Sports Net Chicago, which was shut down in June 2006, recorded $77,996 of affiliate revenue in June 2006 including $71,396, relating to periods prior to 2006, that had not been previously recognized due to the dispute. Such affiliate revenue has been reported in discontinued operations. The underlying contract was terminated in June 2006 and no further payments will be received under the contract.